The word which came unto Jeremiah from Yahweh,—when King Zedekiah sent unto him Pashhur, son of Malchiah, and Zephaniah, son of Maaseiah, the priest, saying:
Enquire for us I pray thee of Yahweh, in that, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, maketh war against us,—Peradventure Yahweh will deal with us according to all his wonders, so that he go up from us.
Then said Jeremiah unto them,—Thus, shall ye say unto Zedekiah:
Thus, saith Yahweh, God of Israel—Behold me! turning back the weapons of war that are in your hand, wherewith, ye, are fighting the king of Babylon and the Chaldeans, who are besieging you outside the wall,—and I will gather them into the midst of this city.
And I myself, will fight against you, with a hand outstretched, and with an arm of strength,—and with anger and with wrath and with great indignation;
and I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast,—of a great pestilence, shall they die.
And after that, Declareth Yahweh—Will I deliver Zedekiah king of Judah and his servants, and the people—even such as are left in this city from the pestilence from the sword and from the famine,—into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, even into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of them who are seeking their life,—and he will smite them with the edge of the sword, he will not have pity on them nor will he spare nor will he have compassion.
And unto this people, shalt thou say, Thus, saith Yahweh,—Behold me! setting before you the way, of life, and the way of death:
He that remaineth in this city, shall die—by the sword or by the famine or by the pestilence,—Whereas, he that goeth forth and falleth unto the Chaldeans, who are besieging you,—then shall he live, and, his life, shall become to him, a spoil;
For I have set my face against this city, for calamity and not for blessing, Declareth Yahweh,—Into the hand of the king of Babylon, shall it be given up, and he will burn it with fire.
Now, as to the house of the king of Judah,—hear ye the word of Yahweh:—
O house of David! Thus, saith Yahweh, Administer justice betimes, And deliver the robbed out of the hand of the oppressor,—Lest mine indignation come forth like fire And burn and there be none to quench it, Because of the wickedness of your doings:
Behold me! against thee, O thou dweller in the vale on the level rock, Declareth Yahweh,—Ye who are saying, Who shall come down upon us? Who shall enter our habitations?
Yet will I bring punishment upon you according to the fruit of your doings, Declareth Yahweh,—and will kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all things round about her.