NOW there was a man of the Pharisees, whose name was Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews:
this man came to Jesus in the night, and said to him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles which thou dost, unless God be with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb, and be born?
Jesus replied, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.
The wind bloweth where it will, and thou hearest the sound of it, but knowest not from whence it cometh, nor whither it goeth: just so is every one who is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be?
Jesus answered and said to him, Art thou a teacher of Israel, and knowest not these things?
Verily, verity, I tell thee, That what we know we speak, and what we have seen we affirm; and ye receive not our testimony.
If I have told you of earthly things, and ye believe not, how will you believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?
Though no man hath ascended into heaven, except he that descended from heaven, that Son of man the I am in heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, in like manner must the Son of man be lifted up:
that every one who believeth on him may not perish, but have life eternal.
For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that every one who believeth in him should not perish, but have life eternal.
For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world by him might be saved.
He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is already under condemnation, because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God.
Now this is the condemnation, that the light is come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light, because their deeds were evil.
For every one whose practices are foul hateth the light, and cometh not to the light, that his actions may not be brought to conviction.
But he who practices the truth, cometh to the light, that his actions may be evident, as being done for God.
After these things Jesus and his disciples went into the land of Judea; and there he abode with them, and baptised.
Now John also was baptising at Enon, near to Salem, for there were many streams of water there: and they came, and were baptised.
For as yet John was not cast into prison.
Then a dispute arose between the disciples of John and the Jews with regard to purification.
And they came to John, and said to him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou gavest testimony, lo! this man baptiseth, and all men come to him.
John answered and said, A man cannot assume any thing, except it be given him from heaven.
Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Messiah, but that I am sent before him.
It is the bridegroom, who possesses the bride: and the friend of the bridegroom, standing by and hearing him, rejoiceth exceedingly at the bridegroom’s voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled.
He must grow great, but I diminutive.
He that cometh from above is above all: he whose origin is from earth is of the earth, and speaketh of the earth: he who cometh from heaven is above all.
And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; though no man receiveth his testimony.
He that receiveth his testimony hath avouched that God is true.
For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God: for God hath not given the Spirit by measure unto him.
The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.
He that believeth on the Son hath life eternal: and he that believeth not on the Son shall not see life: but the wrath of God abideth upon him.