And Jehovah said to Moses, Speak to the priests, Aaron's sons, and you shall say to them, None shall be defiled for the dead among his people.
But for his relative who is near to him, for his mother, and for his father, and for his son, and for his daughter, and for his brother,
and for his sister, the virgin, who is near to him, who has not been with a man, for her he may be defiled.
A leader shall not defile himself among his people, to pollute himself;
they shall not make their heads bald, and they shall not shave the corner of their beard; and they shall not make a cutting in their flesh;
they are holy to their God, and they shall not pollute the name of their God. For they offer the fire offerings of Jehovah, bread of their God, and they are holy.
They shall not take a woman who is a prostitute, or polluted; nor shall they take a woman put away from her husband; for he is holy to his God.
And you shall sanctify him, for he brings near the bread of your God; he is holy to you; for I am holy, Jehovah who is sanctifying you.
And when a daughter of any priest pollutes herself by going whoring, she is polluting her father; she shall be burned with fire.
And the high priest of his brothers, on whose head the anointing oil is poured, and whose hand is consecrated to put on the garments, his head shall not be uncovered, nor his garments torn;
nor shall he come near any dead person; he shall not defile himself for his father or for his mother;
nor shall he go out from the sanctuary; nor shall he pollute the sanctuary of his God. For the crown of the anointing oil of his God is on him; I am Jehovah.
And he shall take a wife in her virginity.
He shall not take a widow, or one put away, or a polluted one, a harlot, but he shall take a virgin of his own people for a wife;
and he shall not pollute his seed among his people; for I am Jehovah who sanctifies him.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, saying, No man of your seed throughout their generations shall draw near to offer the bread of his God if there is a blemish in him.
For no man in whom there is a blemish shall draw near, a blind man, or one lame, or disfigured, or deformed;
or a brokenfooted man, or a brokenhanded man,
or one humpbacked, or one emaciated, or with a spot in his eye, or a scurvy one, or one scabbed, or one with crushed testicles.
No man of the seed of Aaron the priest in whom there is a blemish shall come near to offer the fire offerings of Jehovah; a blemish is in him; he shall not come near to offer the bread of his God.
He shall eat of the bread of his God, of the most holy things, and of the holy things.
But he shall not enter into the veil, and he shall not draw near to the altar; for a blemish is in him; and he shall not pollute My sanctuary; for I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel.