The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel;
to know wisdom and instruction; to recognize the words of understanding;
to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and uprightness;
to give sense to the simple, knowledge and judgment to the young man;
the wise hears and increases learning; and understanding ones gets wisdom;
to understand a proverb and its meaning; the words of the wise, and their acute sayings.
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; but fools despise wisdom and instruction.
My son, hear the instruction of your father, and forsake not the law of your mother;
for they shall be an ornament of grace to your head and chains around your neck.
My son, if sinners lure you, do not be willing.
If they say, Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, we will watch secretly for the innocent without cause;
let us swallow them up alive as the grave, and whole, as those who go down into the pit;
we shall find all precious goods; we shall fill our houses with plunder;
cast in your lot among us, and let us have one purse.
My son, do not walk in the way with them! Keep back your foot from their path,
for their feet run to evil and make haste to shed blood.
Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird,
And they lie in wait for their own blood; they watch secretly for their own lives.
So are the ways of everyone who gains unjust gain; it takes away its owners' life.
Wisdom cries outside; she utters her voice in the streets;
she cries in the chief place of gathering, in the openings of the gates; in the city she utters her words, saying,
How long will you love simplicity, simple ones? And will scorners delight in their scorning? And will fools hate knowledge?
Turn at my warning; behold, I will pour out my Spirit to you; I will make my words known to you.
Because I called, and you refused; I stretched out my hand, and no one paid attention;
but you have despised all my advice, and would have none of my warning.
I also will laugh at your trouble; I will mock when your fear comes;
when your fear comes as a wasting away, and your ruin comes like a tempest when trouble and pain come upon you.
Then they shall call upon me, and I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me;
instead they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the LORD.
They would have none of my counsel; they despised all my correction,
and they shall eat the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own desires.
For the turning away of the simple kills them, and the ease of fools destroys them.
But whoever listens to me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.