After these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for he would not walk in Judea because the Jews sought to kill him.
Now the feast of the Jews, [of] the tabernacles, was at hand.
His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart from this place and go into Judea that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest.
For no one who seeks to be clearly known does anything in secret. If thou doest these things, show thyself to the world.
For not even his brethren believed in him.
Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come, but your time is always ready.
The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify of it that its works are evil.
Go ye up unto this feast; I go not up yet unto this feast, for my time is not yet fulfilled.
And having said these things unto them, he abode still in Galilee.
But when his brethren were gone up, then he also went up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret.
Then the Jews sought him at the feast and said, Where is he?
And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him, for some said, He is [a] good [man]; others said, No, but he deceives the people.
But no one spoke openly of him for fear of the Jews.
Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple and taught.
And the Jews marvelled, saying, How does this man know letters, having never learned?
Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.
If anyone desires to do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it is of God or [whether] I speak of myself.
He that speaks of himself seeks his own glory, but he that seeks the glory of him that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.
Did not Moses give you the law, and [yet] none of you keeps the law? Why do ye go about to kill me?
The people answered and said, Thou hast a demon; who goes about to kill thee?
Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel.
Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers), and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man.
If a man on the sabbath day receives circumcision without the law of Moses being broken, are ye angry at me because I have made a man entirely whole on the sabbath day?
Judge not according to the appearance, but judge [with] righteous judgment.
Then one of those of Jerusalem said, Is not this he whom they seek to kill?
But, behold, he speaks boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Have the rulers truly understood that this is indeed the Christ?
But we know where this man is from; but when the Christ comes, no one shall know where he is from.
Then Jesus cried out in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye know me, and ye know from where I come, but I have not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not.
But I know him, for I am from him, and he has sent me.
Then they sought to take him, but no one laid hands on him because his hour was not yet come.
And many of the people believed in him and said, When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than these which this [man] has done?
The Pharisees heard the people that murmured such things concerning him, and the princes of the priests and the Pharisees sent officers to take him.
Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while I shall be with you, and [then] I shall go unto him that sent me.
Ye shall seek me and shall not find [me], and where I shall be, ye shall not be able to come.
Then the Jews said among themselves, Where will he go that we shall not find him? Will he go unto the dispersed among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
What [manner of] saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me and shall not find [me], and where I shall be ye shall not be able to come?
In the last day, that great [day] of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If any man thirsts, let him come unto me and drink.
He that believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.
(But this he spoke concerning the Spirit, which those that believe on him should receive, for the Holy Spirit was not yet [given] because Jesus was not yet glorified.)
Then many of the people, when they heard this word, said, Truly this is the Prophet.
Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall the Christ come out of Galilee?
Has not the scripture said, That the Christ comes of the seed of David and out of the town of Bethlehem where David was?
So there was a division among the people because of him.
And some of them would have taken him, but no one laid hands on him.
Then the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees came, and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him?
The officers answered, Never has anyone spoken like this man.
Then the Pharisees answered them, Are ye also deceived?
Have any of the princes or of the Pharisees believed on him?
But this people who do not know the law are cursed.
Nicodemus said unto them (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them),
Does our law judge [any] man before it hears him and knows what he does?
They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search and see, for a prophet has never arisen out of Galilee.
And each [one] went unto his own house.: