Now we ask you, brothers, on behalf of the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to him,
for ye not to be quickly shaken from your mind, nor to be alarmed, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by a letter as by us, as that the day of the Christ has come.
Let not any man deceive you in any way, because if not, the defection may come first, and he may be revealed-the man of sin, the son of destruction,
who opposes and exalts himself against all that is called God or an object of worship, so as for him to sit in the temple of God, as God, displaying himself that he is God.
Do ye not remember that when I was yet with you I told you these things?
And now ye know that which restrains, for him to be revealed in his own time.
For the mystery of lawlessness is already working, only he who restrains it until now will develop from the midst.
And then the lawless will be revealed, whom the Lord will consume with the spirit of his mouth, and will neutralize at the appearance of his coming.
Whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and marvels of deceit,
and in all deception of unrighteousness in those who are perishing, in return for which, they did not accept the love of the truth in order for them to be saved.
And because of this God will send them the force of a delusion, for them to believe a lie,
so that they might be condemned-all those who did not believe the truth, but who delighted in unrighteousness.
But we are indebted to express thanks to God always about you, brothers, beloved by the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning for salvation, in sanctification of spirit and belief of truth,
for which he called you, through our good news, for an acquired possession of glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that ye were taught, whether by word or by letter from us.
And may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and our God and Father who loved us and gave eternal encouragement and good hope through grace,
encourage your hearts and establish you in every good word and work.