Wine is a mocker, strong drink is stirring, and each one straying by it is not wise.
The fear of a king is as the roar of a lion, he who stirs him up to anger wrongs his own soul.
For a man to cease from strife is an honor, but every fool exposes himself.
The lazy man will not plow, after autumn he begs at harvest, and nothing is there.
Counsel in a man's heart is like deep water, but an understanding man will draw it out.
Most men will proclaim each his own kindness, but who can find a faithful man?
The just one walks in his integrity, blessed are his sons after him!
A king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters away all evil with his eyes.
Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?
A stone and a stone, an ephah and an ephah, both are hateful to Jehovah.
Even a child is known by his acts, whether his work is pure, or upright.
The hearing ear and the seeing eye, Jehovah has even made both of them.
Do not love sleep, lest you become poor; open your eyes, be satisfied with bread.
Bad! Bad! says the buyer, but when it is left to him, then he boasts.
There is gold and a multitude of gems, but the lips of knowledge are a rare vessel.
Take the garment of the one who is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge from one who guarantees for strangers.
Bread of deceit is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.
Purposes are established in counsel, and make war with wise guidance.
A revealer of secrets walks about as a gossip, so do not meddle with him who opens his lips wide.
Whoever curses his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in deep darkness.
An inheritance may be gotten quickly in the beginning, but the end of it shall not be blessed.
Do not say, I will repay evil; wait on Jehovah, and He will save you.
A stone and a stone are hateful to Jehovah; and a false balance is not good.
The steps of a man are from Jehovah, and what can man discern of his way?
It is a snare to a man to say rashly, A holy thing, and after the vows to inquire about it .
A wise king scatters the wicked and turns the wheel over them.
The spirit of man is the lamp of Jehovah, searching all the inward parts of the heart.
Mercy and truth preserve the king, and his throne is upheld by mercy.
The glory of young men is their vigor, and the honor of old men is the gray head.
The stripes of a wound cleanse away evil, and strokes the inward parts of the heart.