And when the sabbath was past, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come and anoint him.
And very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb at the rising of the sun.
And they said to one another, Who will roll away for us the stone from the door of the tomb?
And looking up they see that the stone had been rolled back; for it was very large.
And they entered the tomb, and saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted.
But he saith to them, Be not affrighted; ye seek Jesus the Nazarene who was crucified; he hath risen; he is not here; behold the place where they laid him.
But go, tell his disciples and Peter, that he is going before you into Galilee; there ye will see him, as he said to you.
And they went out, and fled from the tomb; for trembling and amazement had seized them, and they said nothing to any one; for they were terrified.
[And having risen early, on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary the Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven demons.
She went and reported it to those who had been with him, who were mourning and weeping.
And they, when they heard that he was alive, and had been seen by her, did not believe.
After this, he manifested himself in another form to two of them as they walked, going into the country.
And they went and reported it to the rest; and even them they did not believe.
Afterward he manifested himself to the eleven themselves, as they were reclining at table, and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had risen.
And he said to them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the glad tidings to the whole creation.
He that believeth and is baptized will be saved; but he that doth not believe will be condemned.
And these signs will accompany believers: In my name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new tongues;
they will take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it will not hurt them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.
So then, the Lord, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven, and sat down on the right hand of God;
and they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs which followed it.]