And God spoke all these words, saying,
I am the LORD your God, who has brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
You shall have no other gods before Me.
You shall not make to yourselves any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
You shall not bow yourself down to them, nor serve them. For I the LORD your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the sons to the third and fourth generation of those that hate me,
and showing mercy to thousands of those that love Me and keep My commandments.
You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain. For the LORD will not hold him guiltless that takes His name in vain.
Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Six days you shall labor and do all your work.
But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD your God. You shall not do any work, you nor your son, nor your daughter, your manservant, nor your maidservant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger within your gates.
For in six days the LORD made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the LORD blessed the Sabbath day, and sanctified it.
Honor your father and your mother, so that your days may be long upon the land which the LORD your God gives you.
You shall not kill.
You shall not commit adultery.
You shall not steal.
You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.
You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is your neighbor's.
And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. And when the people saw, they trembled, and stood afar off.
And they said to Moses, You speak with us, and we will hear. But let not God speak with us, lest we die.
And Moses said to the people, Do not fear, for God has come to test you, and so that His fear may be before your faces, so that you may not sin.
And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was.
And the LORD said to Moses, So you shall say to the sons of Israel, You have seen that I have talked with you from the heavens.
You shall not make with Me gods of silver, neither shall you make to you gods of gold.
You shall make an altar of earth to Me, and shall sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen. In all places where I record My name I will come to you, and I will bless you.
And if you will make Me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of cut stone. For if you lift up your tool upon it, you have defiled it.
And you shall not go up by steps to My altar, that your nakedness be not uncovered on it.