The burden against Tyre: Howl, ships of Tarshish! For it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in. From the land of Chittim it is revealed to them.
Be still, inhabitants of the coast, merchant of Sidon, who pass over the sea. They have filled you.
And by great waters, the seed of Sihor and the harvest of the river Nile was her revenue; and she a mart of nations.
Be ashamed, O Sidon; for the sea has spoken, the strength of the sea, saying, I have not travailed nor brought forth. I have not nourished young men nor raised up virgins.
As the report comes to Egypt, so they shall be grieved at the report of Tyre.
Pass over Tarshish. Howl, inhabitants of the coast!
Is this your joyous city from days of her old age? Her own feet carry it afar off to stay.
Who has purposed this against Tyre, the crowning city, whose merchants are rulers, whose merchants are the weighty of the earth?
The LORD of hosts has purposed it, to stain the pride of all glory and to bring into contempt all the weighty of the earth.
Pass through your land like a river, O daughter of Tarshish; there is no more strength.
He stretched out His hand over the sea; He shook kingdoms. The LORD has made a decree against the merchant city, to destroy its forts.
And He said, You shall rejoice no more, O crushed one, virgin daughter of Sidon. Arise, pass over to Chittim; also there you shall have no rest.
Behold the land of the Chaldeans! This people did not exist. Assyria founded it for those who live in the desert. They set up their siege-towers; they stripped its palaces. They made it a ruin.
Howl, ships of Tarshish! For your strength is laid waste.
And in that day Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king. At the end of seventy years, it will be as the song of a harlot to Tyre.
Take a harp, go about the city, O harlot who has been forgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs so that you may be remembered.
And it will be, after the end of seventy years the LORD will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire and shall commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth.
And her goods and her wages shall be holiness to the LORD. It shall not be treasured nor laid up, for her goods shall be for those who dwell before the LORD, to eat enough, and for a choice covering.