CHILDREN, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
“Honour thy father and mother; (which is the first commandment with a promise;)
that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest be long-lived upon earth.”
And, ye fathers, exasperate not your children: but educate them in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.
Servants, be obedient to your masters after the flesh, with fear and trembling, in simplicity of your heart as unto Christ;
not with eye-service, as men-pleasers; but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul;
with good will doing service as to the Lord, and not unto men:
knowing that whatsoever good a man doeth, the same shall he receive from the Lord, whether he be a bondman, or whether he be free.
And ye masters, do the same things to them, avoiding menacing language: knowing that you also yourselves have a master in heaven; and there is no respect of persons with him.
Finally, brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.
Be clothed in the panoply of God, that we may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
For our conflict is not merely against flesh and blood, but against principalities, and against powers, and against the rulers of the darkness of this world, and against wicked spirits in the aerial regions.
Therefore take the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all things to stand.
Stand therefore, girded about your loins with truth, and putting on the breastplate of righteousness;
and underneath your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
and over all lifting up the shield of faith, with which ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one.
And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:
praying at every opportunity with all prayer and supplication in Spirit, and watching for this very purpose with perseverance and intercession for all the saints;
and for me that there may be given unto me utterance to open my mouth with boldness, to make known the mystery of the gospel,
for which I am an ambassador in bonds; that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
But that ye also may know the things which concern me, and what I am doing, Tychicus will inform you of the whole, a beloved brother, and faithful in the Lord:
whom I have sent unto you for this very purpose, that ye may know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts.
Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity.   Written to the Ephesians from Rome by Tychicus. \p