Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,
that I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the governor of the castle, charge over Jerusalem, for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many.
And I said to them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot, and while they stand on guard, let them shut the doors, and bar ye them. And appoint watchmen of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, everyone in his watch, and everyone to be opposite his house.
Now the city was wide and large, but the people in it were few, and the houses were not built.
And my God put into my heart to gather together the ranking men, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of those who came up at the first. And I found written therein:
These are the sons of the province who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and who returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, everyone to his city,
who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
the sons of Parosh, two thousand a hundred and seventy-two;
the sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two;
the sons of Arah, six hundred fifty-two;
the sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen;
the sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty-four;
the sons of Zattu, eight hundred forty-five;
the sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty;
the sons of Binnui, six hundred forty-eight;
the sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight;
the sons of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two;
the sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven;
the sons of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-seven;
the sons of Adin, six hundred fifty-five;
the sons of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety-eight;
the sons of Hashum, three hundred twenty-eight;
the sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-four;
the sons of Hariph, a hundred and twelve;
the sons of Gibeon, ninety-five;
the men of Bethlehem and Netophah, a hundred eighty-eight;
the men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty-eight;
the men of Beth-azmaveth, forty-two;
the men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three;
the men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one;
the men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty-two;
the men of Bethel and Ai, a hundred twenty-three;
the men of the other Nebo, fifty-two;
the sons of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty-four;
the sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty;
the sons of Jericho, three hundred forty-five;
the sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-one;
the sons of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.
The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three;
the sons of Immer, a thousand fifty-two;
the sons of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred forty-seven;
the sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodevah, seventy-four.
The singers: the sons of Asaph, a hundred forty-eight.
The porters: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, a hundred thirty-eight.
The Nethinim: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
the sons of Keros, the sons of Sia, the sons of Padon,
the sons of Lebana, the sons of Hagaba, the sons of Salmai,
the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar,
the sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda,
the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah.
The sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephushesim,
the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
the sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,
the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha.
The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida,
the sons of Jaala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Amon.
All the Nethinim and the sons of Solomon's servants, were three hundred ninety-two.
And these were those who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer, but they could not show their fathers' house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel:
The sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred forty-two.
And of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name.
These sought their registration among those who were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found. Therefore they were deemed polluted and put from the priesthood.
And the governor said to them that they should not eat of the most holy things till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty,
besides their men-servants and their maid-servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven. And they had two hundred forty-five singing men and singing women.
Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six, their mules, two hundred forty-five,
their camels, four hundred thirty-five, their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
And some from among the heads of fathers gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury a thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, five hundred and thirty priests' garments.
And some of the heads of fathers gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pounds of silver.
And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and sixty-seven priests' garments.
So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities. And when the seventh month came, the sons of Israel were in their cities.