And it came to pass afterward, that he journeyed through cities and villages, preaching and publishing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God; and the twelve were with him,
and certain women who had been cured of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom had come seven demons,
and Joanna, the wife of Chuzas, Herod’s steward, and Susanna, and many others, who afforded them aid from their substance.
And a great multitude collecting together, and people from the cities going out to him, he spoke by a parable:
A sower went forth to sow his seed; and as he sowed, some seeds fell by the way-side; and they were trodden down, and the birds of the air devoured them.
And others fell upon rocky ground; and when they had sprung up they withered away, because they had no moisture.
And others fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up with them, and choked them.
And others fell upon good ground, and sprung up, and bore fruit, a hundred-fold. While saying these things, he cried aloud, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
And his disciples asked him what this parable meant.
And he said, To you it hath been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God; but to others [these things are spoken] in parables; that while seeing they may not see, and while hearing they may not understand.
Now the meaning of the parable is this. The seed is the word of God.
Those by the way-side are they that hear; then cometh the Devil and taketh away the word from their heart, that they may not believe and be saved.
Those on the rocky ground are they who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root; and for a while they believe, and in time of temptation fall away.
And those seeds which fell among the thorns, these are they who, when they have heard, go away and are choked with the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to perfection.
But the seeds on the good ground, these are they who in an honest and good heart, when they have heard the word, hold it fast, and bear fruit with constancy.
And no one having lighted a lamp, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a lampstand, that those who come in may see the light.
For nothing is secret, that will not be made manifest; nor hidden, that will not be known, and come to light.
Take heed therefore how ye hear; for whoever hath, to him will be given; and whoever hath not, from him will be taken even what he seemeth to have.
And his mother and his brothers came where he was, and could not get to him on account of the crowd.
And word was brought to him, Thy mother and thy brothers stand without, desiring to see thee.
And he answering said to them, My mother and my brothers are these, who hear the word of God, and do it.
Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a boat with his disciples, and said to them, Let us go over to the other side of the lake; and they put off.
But as they were sailing, he fell asleep. And there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filling with water, and were in jeopardy.
And they came and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we are perishing! And he rose, and rebuked the wind, and the surging of the water; and they ceased, and there was a calm.
And he said to them, Where is your faith? And they were afraid, and wondered, saying one to another, Who then is this, that he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him?
And they sailed to the country of the Gergesenes, which is over against Galilee.
And when he had landed, there met him a certain man out of the city who had demons, and for a long time had worn no clothes, and abode not in a house, but in the tombs.
And seeing Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and said with a loud voice, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, Son of the most high God? I beseech thee, do not torment me.
For he was about to command the unclean spirit to come out of the man; for it had possessed him for a long time, and he had been kept bound and secured with chains and fetters; and bursting the bands, he had been driven by the demon into the wilderness.
And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion; because many demons had entered into him.
And they besought him not to command them to go away into the abyss.
Now there was there a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain; and they besought him to permit them to go into them. And he permitted them.
And the demons coming out of the man went into the swine; and the herd rushed down the steep into the lake, and were drowned.
And the herdsmen, seeing what was done, fled, and told the news in the city and in the country.
And they went out to see what had been done. And they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had gone out sitting, clothed, and in his right mind, at the feet of Jesus; and they were afraid.
And they who had seen it told them how he that was possessed by demons was made well.
And the whole multitude in the surrounding country of the Gergesenes besought him to depart from them; for they were seized with great fear. And he went on board a boat and returned.
And the man out of whom the demons had gone besought him that he might be with him. But he sent him away, saying,
Return to thy house, and tell what great things God hath done for thee. And he went and published through the whole city what great things Jesus had done for him.
And it came to pass when Jesus returned, that the multitude welcomed him; for they were all waiting for him.
And lo! there came a man, named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue; and falling at the feet of Jesus, he besought him to come into his house;
for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. And as he went, the multitudes thronged him.
And a woman who had had an issue of blood twelve years, and had spent all her living upon physicians, and could not be cured by any one,
came up behind and touched the fringe of his garment; and immediately her issue of blood ceased.
And Jesus said, Who touched me? And when all denied it, Peter and those with him said, Master, the multitudes are thronging thee, and pressing against thee.
But Jesus said, Some one touched me; for I perceived that power went out from me.
And the woman, seeing that she was discovered, came trembling, and falling down before him declared before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was cured immediately.
And he said to her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee well; go in peace.
While he was yet speaking, there cometh one from the house of the ruler of the synagogue, saying, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the Teacher any further.
But Jesus hearing this, answered him, Fear not; only believe, and she will be made well.
And going into the house, he suffered no one to go in with him but Peter and John and James, and the father of the maiden, and the mother.
And all were weeping, and lamenting for her. But he said, Weep not; she is not dead, but sleeping.
And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.
But he took hold of her hand, and called aloud, saying, Maiden, arise!
And her spirit returned, and she immediately arose. And he ordered food to be given to her.
And her parents were amazed. But he charged them to tell no one what had been done.