Then spake Yahweh onto Moses and onto Aaron saying:
Every man—near his standard with the ensigns belonging to their ancestral houses, shall the sons of Israel encamp,—at a distance round about the tent of meeting, shall they encamp.
And they who encamp eastwards towards sunrise, shall be the standard of the camp of Judah by their hosts,—even the prince of the sons of Judah, Nashon, son of Amminadab;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—seventy-four thousand and six hundred,
Then they who encamp by him the tribe of Issachar,—even the prince of the sons of Issachar, Nethanel, son of Zuar;
and his host even they who are numbered of them,—fifty-four thousand and four hundred.
The tribe of Zebulun, even the prince of the sons of Zebulun, Eliab, son of Helon;
and his host, even they who are numbered of him, fifty-seven thousand and four hundred.
All they who are num-bered to the camp of Judah. a hundred and eighty-six thousand four hundred, by their hosts, shall first set forward.
The standard of the camp of Reuben southwards, by their hosts,—even the prince of the sons of Reuben, Elizur son of Shedeur;
and his host, even they who are numbered of him,—forty-six thousand, and five hundred.
Then they who encamp by him, the tribe of Simeon,—even the prince of the sons of Simeon, Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—fifty-nine thousand and three hundred.
Then the tribe of Gad, even the prince of the sons of Gad, Eliasaph son of Reuel;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—forty-five thousand, and six hundred and fifty.
All they who are num-bered to the camp of Reuben,—a hundred and fifty-one thousand and four hundred and fifty, by their hosts, and they in the second rank, shall set forward.
Then shall set forward the tent of meeting—the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps,—as they encamp, so, shall they set forward, every man at the side thereof by their standards.
the standard of the camp of Ephraim, by their hosts westwards,—even the prince of the sons of Ephraim, Elishama son of Ammihud;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—forty thousand, and five hundred.
Then by him, the tribe of Manasseh, even the prince of the sons of Manasseh, Gamaliel, son of Pedahzur;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—thirty-two thousand and two hundred.
Then the tribe of Benjamin, even the prince of the sons of Benjamin, Abidan, son of Gideoni;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—thirty-five thousand and four hundred.
All they who are numbered to the camp of Ephraim a hundred and eight thousand and one hundred by their hosts, and they in the third rank, shall set forward.
the standard of the camp of Dan, north-wards by their hosts, even the prince of the sons of Dan, Ahiezer, son of Ammishaddai:
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—sixty-two thousand and seven hundred.
Then they who encamp by him the tribe of Asher,—even the prince of the sons of Asher, Pagiel, son of Ochran;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—forty-one thousand and five hundred.
Then the tribe of Naphtali,—even the prince of the sons of Naphtali, Ahira, son of Enan;
and his host, even they who are numbered of them,—fifty-three thousand and four hundred,
All they who are numbered to the camp of Dan, a hundred and fifty-seven thousand and six hundred, in the hindmost rank, shall they set forward, by their standards.
These, are they who were numbered of the sons of Israel by their ancestral houses,—all they who were numbered of the camps by their hosts were six hundred and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites, were not numbered in the midst of the sons of Israel,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
Thus did the sons of Israel,—according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so, did they encamp by their standards, and so, did they set forward, every one by his families near his ancestral house.