PAUL the apostle (not sent from men, nor by man, but by Jesus Christ, and our Father who raised him from the dead),
and all the brethren with me, to the churches of Galatia:
grace unto you, and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ;
who gave himself for our sins, that he might pluck us out of this present wicked world, according to the will of God and our Father:
to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I marvel that ye are so quickly departed from him that called you, by the grace of Christ into another gospel
which is not another; but there are certain persons who trouble you, and desire to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But though even we, or an angel from heaven, preach unto you another gospel, different from that which we have preached to you, let him be an anathema.
As we have before spoken, and I now repeat it again, If any man preach a gospel different from that ye have received, let him be anathema.
For do I now use persuasions from men, or from God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.
But I give you to understand, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not a merely human ministry.
For I neither received it from man, nor was taught, but by immediate revelation from Jesus Christ.
For ye have heard of my former manner of life, when I professed Judaism, that in the most outrageous manner I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it:
and signalized myself in Judaism above many of those of my own age among my countrymen, being more exceedingly a zealot for the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased God, who selected me from my mother’s womb, and called me by his grace,
to reveal his Son in me, that I might preach the glad tidings of him to the nations, immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood,
nor went up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me; but I went away into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus.
Afterwards at the expiration of three years I went up unto Jerusalem to pay a visit to Peter, and I abode with him fifteen days.
But I saw no other of the apostles except James, the Lord’s brother.
Now respecting the things which I write unto you, behold, in the presence of God, I lie not.
Afterwards I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;
and I was personally unknown to the churches of Judea, which are in Christ:
only they had heard, that he who persecuted us in time past, now preaches the faith which he once laid waste.
And they glorified God on my behalf.