And on that day, having departed from the house, Jesus was sitting beside the sea.
And many multitudes were gathered to him, so as for him (having entered in) to sit in the boat, and all the multitude had stood on the shore.
And he spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, the man who sows went forth to sow.
And as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them.
But others fell upon the rocky places, where they had not much soil, and straightaway they sprang up because they had no depth of soil.
But when the sun was risen, they were scorched, and because they had no root they withered.
And others fell in the thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them.
But others fell upon the good ground, and yielded fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.
He who has ears, let him hear.
And the disciples having come, they said to him, Why do thou speak to them in parables?
And having answered, he said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of the heavens, but to those men it has not been given.
For whoever has, to him will be given, and he will have abundance, but whoever has not, even what he has will be taken away from him.
Because of this I speak to them in parables, because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, nor do they understand.
And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which says, By hearing ye will hear, and will, no, not understand, and seeing ye will see, and will, no, not perceive.
For this people's heart became fat, and their ears hear heavily, and their eyes are shut, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should turn, and I will heal them.
But blessed are your eyes, because they see, and your ears, because they hear.
For truly I say to you, that many prophets and righteous men longed to see the things that ye see, and did not see them, and to hear the things that ye hear, and did not hear them.
Hear ye then the parable of the man who sows.
Of every man who hears the word of the kingdom, and does not understand it, evil comes, and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is that which was sown by the wayside.
And that which was sown upon the rocky places, this is he who hears the word, and straightaway receiving it with joy,
yet he has no root in himself, instead it is temporary. And when tribulation or persecution develops because of the word, straightaway he is caused to stumble.
And that which was sown in the thorns, this is he who hears the word, and the care of this age, and the deceitfulness of wealth, choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful.
But that which was sown upon the good ground, this is he who hears the word, and understands it, who indeed bears fruit, and is productive, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.
He set forth another parable to them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens is compared to a man sowing good seed in his field.
But while the men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares in the midst of the wheat, and went away.
And when the blade sprouted and produced fruit, then the tares also appeared.
But the bondmen of the house-ruler having come, they said to him, Sir, did thou not sow good seed in thy field? From where then does it have tares?
And he said to them, A hostile man did this. And the bondmen said to him, Do thou desire therefore, after going, we would gather them up?
But he said, No, lest while gathering up the tares, ye uproot the wheat together with them.
Allow both to grow together until the harvest. And at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather up first the tares, and bind them in bundles in order to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn.
He set forth another parable to them, saying, The kingdom of the heavens is like a grain of mustard plant, which having taken, a man sowed in his field.
Which indeed is smaller than all seeds, but when it is grown, it is greater than the plants, and becomes a tree, so as for the birds of the sky to come and lodge in the branches of it.
He spoke another parable to them. The kingdom of the heavens is like leaven, which having taken, a woman hid in three measures of meal until it was all leavened.
Jesus spoke all these things in parables to the multitudes, and he did not speak to them independent of a parable,
so that what was spoken through the prophet might be fulfilled, which says, I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter things concealed from the foundation of the world.
Then having sent the multitudes away, Jesus came into the house. And his disciples came to him, saying, Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field.
And having answered, he said to them, He who sows the good seed is the Son of man,
and the field is the world, and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom, but the tares are the sons of evil.
And the enemy who sowed them is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are agents.
As therefore the tares are gathered up and burned in fire, so it will be at the end of this age.
The Son of man will send forth his agents, and they will gather out of his kingdom all the stumbling-blocks, and those doing lawlessness,
and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Again the kingdom of the heavens is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man having found, he hid. And from the joy of it, he goes and sells all, as many things as he has, and buys that field.
Again, the kingdom of the heavens is like a man, a merchant, seeking fine pearls.
Who, having found one very valuable pearl, after departing, sold all, as many things as he had, and bought it.
Again, the kingdom of the heavens is like a net that was cast into the sea, and gathered from every kind,
which, when it was full, after dragging to the shore, having sat down, they gathered the good into vessels, but they cast out the useless.
So it will be at the end of the age. The agents will come forth, and separate the bad from among the righteous,
and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
Jesus says to them, Have ye understood all these things? They say to him, Yes, Lord.
And he said to them, Because of this every scholar who has been instructed in the kingdom of the heavens is like a man, a house-ruler, who brings forth out of his treasure things new and old.
And it came to pass, when Jesus finished these parables, he departed from there.
And having come into his fatherland he taught them in their synagogue, so as for them to be astonished, and say, From where is this wisdom and powers in this man?
Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James and Joses and Simon and Judas?
And his sisters, are they not all near us? From where then are all these things in this man?
And they were offended by him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his fatherland, and in his house.
And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief.