NOW we entreat you, brethren, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our gathering together unto him:
that ye be not hastily agitated with apprehension, nor troubled, neither by spirit, nor by discourse, nor by letter, as coming from us, as though the day of the Lord was instantly approaching.
Let no man deceive you in any way: because that cannot be till the apostasy come first, and the man of sin appear, the son of perdition,
who opposeth himself against, and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or is the object of adoration; so that he in the temple of God sitteth as God, exhibiting himself in public that he is God.
Do ye not remember that when I was yet with you, I told you these things?
And now ye know what withholdeth, that he may be revealed in his own time.
For the mystery of iniquity is already powerfully working; only he that withholdeth hitherto, will do so till he is removed.
And then that lawless person will appear, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming;
whose appearing is known by fanatical energy, displayed in all power, and signs, and lying miracles,
and in every unrighteous delusion among those who perish: in consequence of which things they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved.
And for this cause God shall send unto them the energy of delusion, that they should believe a lie:
that they all might be damned who have not believed the truth, but have taken pleasure in unrighteousness.
But we are bound to give thanks always to God for you, brethren, beloved of the Lord, because God hath elected you from the beginning unto salvation, by sanctification of the Spirit, and faith in the truth:
whereunto also he called you by our gospel, in order to your acquisition of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and firmly hold the injunctions delivered to you, as ye have been taught, whether by our discourse, or by letter.
Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and our God, and Father, who hath loved us, and given us everlasting consolation, and good hope through grace,
comfort your hearts, and stablish you in every good word and work.