He that loveth correction, loveth knowledge, but, he that hateth reproof, is brutish.
A good man, obtaineth favour from Yahweh, but, a man of wicked devices, will he condemn.
A son of earth, shall not be established, by lawlessness, but, the root of the righteous, shall not be disturbed.
A virtuous woman, is the crown of her husband, but, a veritable decay in his bones, is she that causeth shame.
The plans of the righteous, are just, but, the counsels of the lawless, are deceitful.
The words of the lawless, are—of lying in wait for blood, but, the mouth of the upright, shall deliver them.
Overthrown are the lawless and they are not, but, the house of the righteous, shall stand.
In proportion to his prudence, is a man, to be praised, but, the perverse in heart, shall be an object of contempt.
Better slighted, and have a servant, than to honour oneself, and come short of bread.
A righteous man, regardeth the desire of his beast, but, the compassions of the lawless, are cruel.
He that tilleth his land, shall be filled with food, but, he that runneth after worthless men, lacketh sense.
A lawless man craveth the prey of the wicked, but, the root of the righteous, is enduring.
By the transgression of the lips, is the wicked man, ensnared, but the righteous, cometh out of distress.
Of the fruit of a man’s mouth, shall he be satisfied with good, and, the dealing of the hands of a son of earth, shall be paid back to him.
The way of the foolish, is right in his own eyes, but, he that hearkeneth to counsel, is wise.
A foolish man, on the [same] day, letteth his vexation be known, but, he that concealeth an affront, is prudent.
He that whispereth faithfulness, declareth righteousness, but, a false witness, is a fraud.
There is who babbleth, as with thrusts of a sword, but, the tongue of the wise, hath healing.
A lip that is faithful, shall be firm to futurity, but, only for a twinkling, is the tongue that is false.
Deceit, is in the heart of contrivers of mischief, but, to the counsellors of peace, shall be joy.
Unseemly to the righteous, is any trouble, but, the lawless, are full of misfortune.
An abomination to Yahweh, are lips that are false, but, he that dealeth faithfully, is his delight.
A prudent man, concealeth knowledge, but, the heart of dullards, proclaimeth folly.
The hand of the diligent, shall bear rule, but, the indolent, shall come under tribute.
When anxiety is in the heart of a man, one may bow him down, but, a good word, maketh him glad.
The righteous man guideth his neighbour, but, the way of the lawless, leadeth them astray.
Indolence, roasteth not, his own game, but, the substance of a man, is precious, when he is diligent.
In the way of righteousness, is life, and, in the path thereof, immortality,