Now, Elisha, had spoken unto the woman whose son he had restored to life, saying—Arise, and take thy journey, thou and thy household, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst sojourn, for Yahweh hath called for a famine, moreover also, it is coming upon the land seven years.
So the woman arose, and did according to the word of the man of God,—and took her journey, she and her household, and she sojourned in the land of the Philistines, seven years.
And it came to pass, at the end of seven years, that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines,—and she went forth to make outcry unto the king, concerning her house and concerning her field.
Now, the king, was speaking unto Gehazi, servant of the man of God, saying, Do recount unto me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hath done.
And so it was, just as he was recounting to the king how he had restored the dead to life, lo! the woman whose son he had restored to life, began making outcry unto the king, for her house and for her field. Then said Gehazi, My lord, O king! this, is the woman, and, this, her son, whom, Elisha, restored to life.
So the king asked the woman, and she recounted it to him,—the king, therefore, appointed her a certain officer, saying—Restore all that was hers, and all the increase of the field, from the day she left the land, even until now.
And Elisha came into Damascus, when Ben-hadad king of Syria, was sick,—and it was told him, saying, The man of God hath come as far as this place.
So the king said unto Hazael—Take in thy hand a present, and go to meet the man of God,—so shalt thou enquire of Yahweh, from him, saying, Shall I recover from this sickness?
So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present in his hand, even every good thing of Damascus, forty camels’ burden,—and came, and stood before him, and said—Thy son, Ben-hadad king of Syria, hath sent me unto thee, saying, Shall I recover from this sickness?
And Elisha said unto him, Go, say to him, Thou shalt, recover; And yet Yahweh hath shown me, that he will, die.
And he settled his countenance, and fixed it until he turned pale,—and the man of God, wept.
Then said Hazael, Why, is my lord, weeping? And he said—Because I know what thou wilt do to the sons of Israel, by way of harm—Their fortresses, thou wilt set on fire, and, their choice young men, with the sword, thou wilt slay, and, their children, thou wilt dash in pieces, and, their women with child, thou wilt rip up.
And Hazael said, But what is thy servant—the dog—that he should do this great thing? And Elisha said, Yahweh hath shown thee unto me, as king over Syria.
So he departed from Elisha, and came in unto his lord, who said to him, What said, Elisha, unto thee? And he said. He told me thou wouldst, recover.
But it came to pass on the morrow, that he took the coverlet, and dipped it in water, and spread it over his face, that he died,—and, Hazael, reigned, in his stead.
Now, in the fifth year of Joram son of Ahab, king of Israel, Jehoshaphat, having been king of Judah, Jehoram, son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, began to reign.
Thirty-two years old, was he when he began to reign, and, eight years, reigned, he in Jerusalem.
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, just as did the house of Ahab, for, a daughter of Ahab, became his wife,—and he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh.
Yet was not Yahweh willing to destroy Judah, for the sake of David his servant,—even as he promised him to give him a lamp for his sons all the days.
In his days, did Edom revolt from under the hand of Judah,—and they set over them a king.
So Joram passed over to Zair, and all the chariots with him,—and it came to pass that, he, arising by night, smote the Edomites that were round about unto him, and the captains of the chariots, and the people fled to their homes,
Yet did Edom revolt from under the hand of Judah, unto this day,—then, revolted Libnah, at the same time.
Now, the rest of the story of Joram, and all that he did, are, they, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
And Joram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers, in the city of David,—and, Ahaziah his son, reigned, in his stead.
In the twelfth year of Joram son of Ahab king of Israel, did Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah, begin to reign.
Two and twenty years old, was Ahaziah when he began to reign,—and, one year, reigned he in Jerusalem,—and, his mother’s name, was Athaliah, daughter of Omri, king of Israel;
And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh, like the house of Ahab,—for, son-in-law of the house of Ahab, was, he.
And he went with Joram son of Ahab, to make war against Hazael king of Syria, in Ramoth-gilead,—and the Syrians wounded Joram.
So Joram the king returned to get healed in Jezreel, from the wounds wherewith the Syrians had wounded him in Ramah, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria,—and, Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah, went down to see Joram son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he, was sick.