Now, brethren, I do not wish you to be ignorant, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and that all passed through the sea,
and were all immersed into Moses, in the cloud and in the sea;
and did all eat the same spiritual food,
and did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them, and that Rock was the Christ.
But with the most of them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
Now these things took place as examples for us, that we should not desire evil things, as they, also, desired.
Neither be you idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written: Tho people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to engage in idolatrous sport.
Nor let us be guilty of lewdness, as some of them were guilty, and fell, in one day, twenty-three thousand.
Nor let us tempt the Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed by serpents.
Nor do you murmur, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed by the destroyer.
Now all these things happened to them as examples, and they are written for the instruction of us, upon whom the ends of the ages have come.
Wherefore, let him that thinks he stands, take heed lest he foil.
No trial has come upon you but such as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tried more than you are able to bear; but he will, with the trial, make a way to escape, so that you be able to bear up under it.
Wherefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
I speak as to wise men; judge you what I say.
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the participation of the blood of the Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the participation of the body of the Christ?
Because the loaf is one, we, the many, are one body, for we are all partakers of the one loaf.
Look at Israel according to the flesh: are not those who eat the sacrifices partakers with the altar?
What, then, do I say? That an idol is any thing? or, that what is sacrificed to an idol is any thing?
But I say, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God. I do not wish you to be partakers with demons.
You can not drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons: you can not be partakers of the table of the Lord, and of the table of demons.
Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?
All meats are lawful for me; but all are not profitable; all are lawful, but all do not edify.
Let no one seek his own, but each the welfare of the other.
Any thing that is sold in the market, eat, asking no questions on account of conscience:
for the earth and its fullness are the Lord’s.
If any one of the unbelievers invites you to a feast, and you are disposed to go, eat any thing that is set before you, asking no questions for conscience sake.
But if any one say to you: This is sacrificed to idols; eat not, for the sake of him that pointed it out, and for conscience sake:
conscience, I say, not your own, but that of the other. Why, then, is my liberty judged by the conscience of another?
If I partake with thanksgiving, why am I evil spoken of on account of that for which I give thanks?
Whether, therefore, you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
Give no occasion for stumbling, either to the Jews, or to the Greeks, or to the church of God;
even as I please all men in all things, not seeking my own good, but that of the many, in order that they may be saved.