And he rose from thence and went into ye coostes of Iurie through the region yt is beyonde Iordan. And ye people resorted vnto him afresshe: and as he was wont he taught them agayne.
And the pharises came and axed him a question: whether it were laufull for a ma to put awaye his wyfe: to prove him.
And he answered and sayd vnto the: what dyd Moses byd you do?
And they sayde: Moses suffred to wryte a testimoniall of devorsement and to put hyr awaye.
And Iesus answered and sayd vnto the: For ye hardnes of youre hertes he wrote this precept vnto you.
But at the fyrste creacion God made the man and woman.
And for this thinges sake shall ma leve his father and mother and bide by his wyfe
and they twayne shalbe one flesshe. So then are they now not twayne but one flesshe.
Therfore what God hath cuppled let not ma separat.
And in the housse his disciples axed him agayne of yt matter.
And he sayde vnto them: Whosoever putteth awaye his wyfe and maryeth another breaketh wedlocke to her warde.
And yf a woman forsake her husband and be maryed to another she comitteth advoutrie.
And they brought chyldren to him that he should touche the. And his disciples rebuked thoose that brought the.
When Iesus sawe that he was displeased and sayd to the: Suffre the chyldre to come vnto me and forbid the not. For of suche is ye kyngdome of God.
Verely I saye vnto you whosoever shall not receave ye kyngdome of God as a chylde he shall not entre therin.
And he toke the vp in his armes and put his hondes vpon them and blessed the.
And when he was come in to the waye ther came one runninge and kneled to him and axed him: good master what shall I do that I maye enheret eternall lyfe?
Iesus sayde to him: why callest thou me good? There is no ma good but one which is God.
Thou knowest the comaundementes: breake not matrimony: kyll not: steale not: bere not falce wytnes: defraude no man: honoure thy father and mother.
He answered and sayde to him: master all these I have observed fro my youth.
Iesus behelde him and had a favour to him and sayde vnto him: one thynge is lackinge vnto the. Goo and sell all that thou hast and geve to the povre and thou shalt have treasure in heven and come and folowe me and take vp thy crosse.
But he was discuforted with yt sayinge and wet awaye morninge for he had greate possessions.
And Iesus loked rounde aboute and sayde vnto his disciples: what an harde thinge is it for them that have riches to entre into the kyngdome of God.
And his disciples were astonneyd at his wordes. But Iesus answered agayne and sayde vnto them: chyldre how harde is it for them that trust in riches to entre in to the kyngdome of God.
It is easyer for a camell to go thorowe ye eye of an nedle then for a riche man to entre into the kyngdome of God.
And they were astonnyed out of measure sayinge betwene them selves: who then can be saved?
Iesus loked vpon them and sayde: with men it is vnpossible but not with God: for with God all thynges are possible.
And Peter begane to saye vnto him: Lo we have forsaken all and have folowed the.
Iesus answered and sayde: Verely I saye vnto you ther is no man that forsaketh housse or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wyfe other chyldren or londes for my sake and the gospelles
which shall not receave an houndred foolde nowe in this lyfe: houses and brethren and sisters and mothers and chyldren and londes with persecucions: and in the worlde to come eternall lyfe.
Many that are fyrst shalbe last: and the last fyrst.
And they were in ye waye goinge vp to Ierusalem. And Iesus wet before them: and they were amased and as they folowed were affrayde. And Iesus toke ye .xii. agayne and begane to tell the what thinges shuld happe vnto him.
Beholde we goo vp to Ierusalem and the sonne of man shalbe delyvered vnto the hye preestes and vnto the Scribes: and they shall condempne him to deeth and shall delyvre him to the gentyls:
and they shall mocke hym and scourge him and spit vpo hym and kyll him. And the thirde daye he shall ryse agayne.
And then Iames and Iohn ye sonnes of zebede came vnto him sayinge: master we wolde that thou shuldest do for vs what soever we desyre.
He sayde vnto them: what wolde ye I shuld do vnto you?
They sayd to him: graut vnto vs that we maye sitte one on thy right honde and the other on thy lyfte honde in thy glory.
But Iesus sayd vnto the: Ye wot not what ye axe. Can ye dryncke of the cup that I shall dryncke of and be baptised in ye baptime that I shalbe baptised in?
And they sayde vnto him: that we can. Iesus sayde vnto them: ye shall dryncke of the cup that I shall dryncke of and be baptised with the baptyme that I shalbe baptised in:
but to sit on my right honde and on my lyfte honde ys not myne to geve but to them for whom it is prepared.
And when the .x. hearde that they bega to disdayne at Iames and Iohn.
But Iesus called the vnto him and sayde to them: ye knowe that they which seme to beare rule amonge the gentyls raygne as lordes over the. And they that be greate amoge them exercyse auctorite over them.
So shall it not be amonge you but whosoever of you wilbe greate amoge you shalbe youre minister.
And whosoever wilbe chefe shalbe servaunt vnto all.
For eve the sonne of man came not to be ministred vnto: but to minister and to geve his lyfe for the redempcion of many.
And they came to Hierico. And as he went oute of Hierico with his disciples and a greate nobre of people: Barthimeus ye sonne of Thimeus which was blinde sate by ye hye wayes syde begginge.
And when he hearde that it was Iesus of Nazareth he began to crye and to saye: Iesus the sonne of David have mercy on me.
And many rebuked him yt he shuld holde is peace. But he cryed the moore a greate deale thou sonne of David have mercy on me.
And Iesus stode still and commaunded hym to be called. And they called the blinde sayinge vnto him: Be of good conforte: ryse he calleth the.
And he threwe awaye his clooke and roose and came to Iesus.
And Iesus answered and sayde vnto hym: what wilt thou that I do vnto the? The blynde sayde vnto hym: master that I myght see.
Iesus sayde vnto him: goo thy waye thy faith hath saved the. And by and by he receaved his sight and folowed Iesus in the waye.