Burn not with vexation because of evil-doers, Be not envious of the workers of perversity;
For, like grass, soon shall they wither, and, like green herbage, shall they fade.
Trust in Yahweh, and do good, Dwell in the land, and feed on fidelity;
Yea, rest thy delight on Yahweh, that he may give thee the requests of thy heart.
Roll on Yahweh thy way, Trust also in him, and, he, will effectually work:
So will he bring forth, as the light, thy righteousness, and thy vindication as the noonday.
Be resigned to Yahweh, yea wait with longing for him; Burn not with vexation at him who prospereth in his way,—at the man who doeth wickedness.
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath, Burn not with vexation—[it would be] only to do evil;
For, evil doers, shall be cut off, but, as for them who wait for Yahweh, they, shall inherit the earth.
Yet a little, therefore, and the lawless one shall not be, Yea thou shalt look about, over his place—and he shall have vanished!
But, the patient oppressed-ones, shall inherit the earth, and shall delight themselves over the abundance of prosperity.
Plotting is the lawless one, against the just, and gnashing upon him with his teeth.
My Lord, shall laugh at him, for he seeth, that his day, will come.
A sword, have the lawless, drawn out, and have trodden their bow,—To bring down the oppressed and the needy, To slaughter the upright in life:
Their sword, shall enter into their own heart, and, their bow, shall be broken.
Better the little of the righteous man, than the abundance of the lawless who are mighty;
For, the arms of the lawless, shall be broken, But Yahweh is upholding the righteous.
Yahweh knoweth the days of the blameless, that, their inheritance, unto times age-abiding, shall continue.
They shall not be ashamed in the time of calamity, and, in the days of famine, shall they be filled.
For, the lawless, shall perish, and, the foes of Yahweh, be like the glory of the meadows, They have vanished! In smoke, have they vanished!
A lawless man borroweth, and will not repay, But, a righteous man, showeth favour and giveth;
For, such as are blessed of him, shall inherit the earth, But, the cursed of him, shall be cut off.
From Yahweh, are the steps of a man made firm, When, with his way, he is well pleased:
Though he fall, he shall not be hurled headlong, For, Yahweh, is holding his hand.
Young, have I been, moreover am old,—Yet have I not seen, A righteous man forsaken, Nor his seed begging bread:
All day long, is he showing favour and lending, his seed, therefore, shall have a blessing.
Turn from evil, and do good, and so settle down, unto times age-abiding.
For, Yahweh, loveth justice, and will not forsake his men of lovingkindness, Unto times age-abiding, have the perverse been destroyed,—and the seed of the lawless, been cut off.
The righteous, shall inherit the earth, that they may settle down, to futurity, thereupon.
The mouth of a righteous man, softly uttereth wisdom, and, his tongue, speaketh justice:
The law of his God, is in his heart, his steps shall not swerve.
The lawless man, lieth in wait, for the just, and seeketh to put him to death:
Yahweh, will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him, when he is judged.
Wait for Yahweh, and observe thou his path, that he may exalt thee, to inherit the earth, On the cutting off of the lawless, shalt thou look.
I have seen a lawless man, a tyrant, and spreading himself out, like a cedar in Lebanon;
Then I passed by, and lo! he had vanished! Yea I sought him, but he could not be found.
Mark the blameless man, and behold the upright, for there is a hereafter for the man of peace;
But, transgressors, are to be destroyed together, the hereafter of lawless men, is to be cut off.
But, the deliverance of the righteous, is from Yahweh, their refuge in a time of distress.
Thus hath Yahweh helped them, thus hath he delivered them,—He will deliver them from the lawless, and will save them, because they have sought refuge in him.