Sons, are ye unto Yahweh your God,—ye shall not cut yourselves, neither shall ye put baldness between your eyes for the dead.
For, a holy people, thou art unto Yahweh thy God,—and, of thee, did Yahweh make choice, that thou shouldest become his people as a treasure, above all the peoples that are on the face of the ground.
Thou shalt not eat any abominable thing.
These, are the beasts which ye may eat,—the ox, the young of sheep, and the young of goats;
the hart and the gazelle and the roebuck,—and the wild goat and the mountain goat, and the wild ox, and the mountain sheep.
And every beast that parteth the hoof and cleaveth the cleft into two claws, chewing the cud, among beasts, the same, shall ye eat.
Nevertheless these, shall ye not eat, of them that chew the cud, and of them that divide the cloven hoof,—the camel and the hare and the rabbit for, though they do chew the cud, yet the hoof, do they not part, unclean, they are unto you.
And, the swine, because though he doth divide the hoof, yet he cheweth not the cud, unclean, he is unto you,—of their flesh, shall ye not eat, and their carcases, shall ye not touch.
These, may ye eat of all that that are in the waters,—whatsoever hath fins and scales, ye may eat;
and, whatsoever hath not, fins and scales, ye may not eat,—unclean, it is unto you.
Of every clean bird, ye may eat;
saving these, of which ye may not eat,—the eagle and the ossifrage and the osprey;
and the vulture and the kite, and the falcon after its kind;
and every raven after its kind;
and the female ostrich, and the male ostrich and the sea-gull,—and the hawk, after its kind;
and the pelican and the bittern, and the swan;
and the vomiting pelican and the little vulture and the gannet;
and the stork, and the parrot, after its kind,—and the mountain-cock, and the bat.
And, as for every creeping thing that flieth, unclean, it is unto you,—they, shall not be eaten.
All clean fowls, ye may eat.
Ye shall not eat any thing that dieth of itself: to the sojourner who is within thy gates, mayest thou give it and he may eat it or thou mayest sell it to a foreigner, for a holy people, art thou unto Yahweh thy God. Thou shalt not boil a kid, in the milk of its dam.
Thou shalt surely tithe, all the increase of thy seed,—which the field bringeth forth year by year.
And thou shalt eat before Yahweh thy God—in the place which he shall choose to make a habitation for his name there,—the tithe of thy corn thy new wine and thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herd and of thy flock,—that thou mayest learn to revere Yahweh thy God all the days.
But, when the way becometh too long for thee because thou canst not carry it, because the place is too far for thee which Yahweh thy God shall choose to put his name there,—because Yahweh thy God blesseth thee,
then shalt thou turn it into silver,—and shalt bind up the silver in thy hand, and shalt journey unto the place, which Yahweh thy God shall choose;
and shalt turn the silver into whatsoever thy soul desireth—of the herd or of the flock, or of wine or of strong drink, or of whatsoever thy soul shall ask thee for,—and shalt eat it there, before Yahweh thy God, and shalt rejoice, thou and thy household,
and, the Levite who is within thy gates, thou shalt not forsake him,—for he hath neither portion nor inheritance with thee.
At the end of three years, shalt thou bring forth all the tithe of thine increase in that year,—and shalt lay it up within thy gates;
and the Levite shall come in—because he hath neither portion nor inheritance with thee—and the sojourner and the fatherless and the widow who are within thy gates, and they shall eat and be satisfied,—that Yahweh thy God may bless thee, in all the work of thy hand which thou shalt do.