But, brothers, we make known to you the grace of God which has been given among the churches of Macedonia,
that in much testing of trouble, the overflowing of their joy and the depth of their poverty abounded to the riches of their generosity.
For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability, they willingly gave ,
with much entreating, begging us that they might receive of us the grace and the fellowship of the ministry to the saints.
And not as we hoped, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us through the will of God,
for us to call on Titus, that even as he began before, so also he might complete this grace to you also.
But even as you abound in everything, in faith, and in word, and in knowledge, and in all earnestness, and in your love in us, that you also should abound in this grace.
I do not speak according to command, but through the earnestness of others and testing the trueness of your love.
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that being rich, He became poor for your sake, so that you might become rich by the poverty of that One.
And I give judgment in this, for this is profitable for you, who began before not only to do, but also to be willing from last year.
But now also finish the doing of it , so that even as there was the eagerness in the willing, so also the finishing, giving out of what you have.
For if the eagerness is present, it is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what one does not have.
For it is not that there may be ease to others, but trouble to you;
but by equality in the present time, your abundance for their need; but also that their abundance may be for your need, that there may be equality;
even as it has been written, "He gathering much, he had nothing left over, and he gathering little had no less." Ex. 16:18
But thanks be to God, who gives the same earnestness for you in the heart of Titus.
For truly he received the entreating, but being more earnest, he went out to you of his own accord.
But we sent with him the brother whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches,
and not only so , but also he having been chosen by the churches as a traveling companion to us with this gift being ministered by us to the glory of the Lord Himself, and your eagerness,
avoiding this, lest anyone should blame us in this bounty being ministered by us;
providing right things not only before the Lord, but also before men. Prov. 3:4
And we sent with them our brother whom we often proved in many things to be earnest, and now much more earnest by the great assurance which I have toward you.
If any asks about Titus, he is my partner and a fellow worker for you; or about our brothers, they are messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ.
Then show them a proof of your love and of our boastings toward you, even in the sight of the churches.