And after the tumult had ceased, Paul called to him the disciples, and having embraced them departed to go into Macedonia.
And when he had gone through those regions, and had given them much exhortation, he came into Greece.
And when he had stayed three months, a plot having been laid for him by the Jews as he was about to sail for Syria, he resolved to return through Macedonia.
And there accompanied him as far as Asia, Sopater, son of Pyrrhus, a Beroean; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.
These having gone forward waited for us at Troas.
But we set sail from Philippi, after the days of unleavened bread, and came to them at Troas in five days, where we abode seven days.
And on the first day of the week, when we had assembled to break bread, Paul discoursed to them, being about to depart on the morrow, and continued the discourse until midnight.
And there were many lamps in the upper room where we had assembled.
And there sat on the window a certain young man named Eutychus, having fallen into a deep sleep; and as Paul was discoursing at great length, he sank down with sleep, and fell from thee third story, and was taken up dead.
But Paul went down and fell on him, and having embraced him, said, Make no lamentations; for his life is in him.
And having gone up again, and broken the bread and eaten, he talked a long while even till break of day, and so departed.
And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted.
We however, going forward to the ship, put to sea for Assos, intending to take in Paul from that place; for so he had appointed, intending himself to go on foot.
And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board, and came to Mitylene;
and sailing thence, we came the following day over against Chios. And the next day we arrived at Samos; and having tarried at Trogyllium, we came the next day to Miletus.
For Paul had determined to sail past Ephesus, that he might not be detained in Asia; for he was hastening, if it were possible for him, to be at Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of the church.
And when they had come to him, he said to them: Ye yourselves know, from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you the whole time,
serving the Lord with all humility, and with tears, and trials which befell me by the plots of the Jews;
how I kept back nothing that was profitable, but have made it known to you, and have taught you publicly, and from house to house;
testifying to both Jews and Greeks repentance toward God, and faith in our Lord Jesus.
And now behold, I go, bound in my spirit, to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will befall me there;
save that the Holy Spirit witnesseth to me in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
But I count life of no value to me, so that I may finish my course, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify the glad tidings of the grace of God.
And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I went about preaching the kingdom, will see my face no more.
Wherefore I testify to you this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men;
for I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God.
Take heed therefore to yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Spirit made you overseers, to feed the church of the Lord, which he purchased with his own blood.
For I know this, that after my departure grievous wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
And from among yourselves will men arise speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them.
Therefore be watchful, and remember that for the space of three years, night and day, I ceased not to warn every one with tears.
And now I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, who is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all the sanctified.
I have coveted no man’s silver, or gold, or apparel.
Ye yourselves know, that these hands ministered to my necessities, and to those that were with me.
In all ways I showed you that so laboring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that he himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
And having thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with them all.
And they all wept sorely, and fell on Paul’s neck, and kissed him;
sorrowing most of all for the word which he had spoken, that they were to see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship.