And it happened when Jesus finished commanding His twelve disciples, He left there to teach and to proclaim in their cities.
But hearing in the prison of the works of Christ, sending two of his disciples,
John said to Him, Are You the One coming, or are we to look for another?
And answering, Jesus said to them, Going, relate to John what you hear and see:
The blind receive sight, and the lame walk; lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear; the dead are raised, and the poor are given the gospel. Isa. 61:1
And blessed is the one , whoever shall not be offended in Me.
But as these were going, Jesus began to say to the crowds about John, What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed being shaken with the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft clothing ? Behold, those wearing soft things are in the houses of kings.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and one more excellent than a prophet.
For this is the one about whom it has been written: "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who shall prepare Your way before You." Mal. 3:1
Truly I say to you, Not has arisen among those born of a woman any greater than John the Baptist. But the least in the kingdom of Heaven is greater than he is.
But from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of Heaven suffers violence, and the violent seize it.
For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John.
And if you are willing to receive, he is Elijah, the one about to come.
The one having ears to hear, let him hear.
But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like little children sitting in the markets, and calling to their mates,
and saying, We piped to you, and you did not dance; we mourned to you, and you did not wail.
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon.
The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a wine drinker, and a friend of tax collectors, and of sinners. And wisdom was justified by her children.
Then He began to reproach the cities in which most of His powerful acts had occurred, for they did not repent.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the powerful acts which have taken place in you had happened in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
But I say to you, It shall be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon in Judgment Day than for you.
And you, Capernaum, who "have been exalted to the heaven, you will be thrown down to Hades." For if the powerful acts happening in you had taken place in Sodom, it would remain until today. Isa. 14:13, 15
But I say to you, It will be more bearable for the land of Sodom in Judgment day than for you.
Answering at that time, Jesus said, I praise You, Father, Lord of Heaven and of Earth, because You hid these things from the sophisticated and cunning and revealed them to babes.
Yes, Father, for so it was pleasing before You.
All things were yielded up to Me by My Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father; nor does anyone know the Father, except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal Him .
Come to Me, all those laboring and being burdened, and I will give you rest.
Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, because I am meek and lowly in heart, "and you will find rest to your souls." Jer. 6:16
For My yoke is easy, and My burden is light.