Be imitators of me, as I also of Christ.
But I praise you, brothers, that in all things you have remembered me, and even as I delivered to you, you hold fast the doctrines.
But I want you to know that Christ is the Head of every man, and the man is the head of a woman, and God is the head of Christ.
Every man praying or prophesying, having anything down over his head shames his Head.
And every woman praying or prophesying with the head unveiled dishonors her head, for it is the same as being shaved.
For if a woman is not veiled, let her also be shorn. But if it is shameful for a woman to be shorn, or to be shaved, let her be veiled.
For truly a man ought not to have the head covered, being the image and glory of God. But woman is the glory of man;
for man is not of the woman, but woman of man;
for also man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man;
because of this, the woman ought to have authority on the head, because of the angels.
However, man is not apart from woman, nor woman apart from man, in the Lord.
For as the woman is out of the man, so also the man through the woman; but all things from God.
You judge among yourselves: is it fitting for a woman to pray to God unveiled?
Or does not nature herself teach you that if a man indeed wears long hair, it is a dishonor to him?
But if a woman wears her hair long, it is a glory to her; because the hair has been given to her corresponding to a veil.
But if anyone thinks to be contentious, we do not have such a custom, nor the churches of God.
But enjoining this, I do not praise you , because you come together not for the better, but for the worse.
Indeed, first, I hear divisions to be among you when you come together in the church. And I believe some part.
For there must also be heresies among you, so that the approved ones may become revealed among you.
Then you coming together into one place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper.
For each one takes his own supper first in the eating; and one is hungry, and another drunken.
For do you not have houses to eat and to drink? Or do you despise the church of God, and shame those who have not? What do I say to you? Shall I praise you for this? I do not praise.
For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was betrayed took bread;
and giving thanks, He broke and said, Take, eat; this is My body which is broken on behalf of you; this do in remembrance of Me.
In the same way the cup also, after supping, saying, This cup is the New Covenant in My blood; as often as you drink, do this in remembrance of Me. See Luke 22:19, 20
For as often as you may eat this bread, and drink this cup, you solemnly proclaim the death of the Lord, until He shall come.
So that whoever should eat this bread, or drink the cup of the Lord, unworthily, that one will be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord.
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and let him drink of the cup;
for he eating and drinking unworthily eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the body of the Lord.
For this reason many among you are weak and feeble, and many sleep.
For if we discerned ourselves, we would not be judged.
But being judged, we are corrected by the Lord, that we not be condemned with the world.
So that, my brothers, coming together to eat, wait for one another.
But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, that you may not come together for judgment. And the other things I will set in order whenever I come.