The sin of Judah is engraved with an iron pen. It is carved on the tablet of their heart with the point of a diamond, and on the horns of your altars,
even while their sons remember their altars and their Asherahs by the green trees on the high hills.
O My mountain in the field! I will give your wealth, all your treasures, for prey, your high places for sin throughout all your borders.
And you, even through yourself, will let drop from your inheritance which I gave you. And I will cause you to serve your enemies in a land which you do not know. For you have kindled a fire in My anger; it will burn forever.
So says Jehovah, Cursed is the man who trusts in man, and who makes flesh his arm, and who turns aside his heart from Jehovah.
For he shall be like a juniper in the desert, and shall not see when good comes. But he shall live in parched places in the wilderness, in a salt land that is not inhabited.
Blessed is the man who trusts in Jehovah, and Jehovah is his trust.
For he shall be like a tree planted by the waters. It sends out its roots by the stream, and it will not fear when the heat comes; but its foliage will be green; and it is not anxious in the year of drought, nor will it cease from yielding fruit.
The heart is deceitful above all things, and it is incurable; who can know it?
I, Jehovah, search the heart, I try the reins, even to give to each man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings.
As a partridge broods and does not hatch, so is he who makes riches, and not by right; it will leave him in the middle of his days, and in his end he will be a fool.
A glorious high throne from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary.
O Jehovah, the Hope of Israel, all who forsake You shall be ashamed. Those who depart from Me shall be written in the earth, because they have forsaken Jehovah, the Fountain of living waters.
Heal me, O Jehovah, and I will be healed; save me, and I will be saved; for You are my praise.
Behold, they say to me, Where is the word of Jehovah? Let it come now.
And I have not hurried away from shepherding after You, nor have I desired the woeful day. You surely know that the utterance of my lips was before Your face.
Do not be a terror to me; You are my refuge in the day of evil.
Let those who persecute me be ashamed, but do not let me be ashamed. Let them be terrified, but do not let me be terrified. Bring on them the day of evil, and break them with double breaking.
So said Jehovah to me, Go and stand in the gate of the sons of the people, that by which the kings of Judah come in, and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem.
And say to them, Hear the word of Jehovah, kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the residents of Jerusalem who enter in by these gates.
So says Jehovah, Take heed for the sake of your lives, and do not carry a burden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem.
And do not carry a burden from your houses on the sabbath day, nor do any work, but keep the sabbath day holy, as I commanded your fathers.
But they did not obey nor bow down their ear, but they made their neck stiff, not to hear, nor to receive instruction.
And it shall be, if you carefully listen to me, says Jehovah, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city on the sabbath day, but keep the sabbath day holy, to do no work in it,
even kings and rulers sitting on the throne of David shall enter into the gates of this city, riding on chariots and on horses, they and their rulers, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And this city will be inhabited forever.
And they will come from the cities of Judah, and from the places about Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the lowland, and from the mountains, and from the south, bringing burnt offerings, and sacrifices, and grain offerings, and incense, and bringing sacrifices of thanksgiving to the house of Jehovah.
But if you will not listen to Me to keep the sabbath day holy, and not to carry a burden and enter at the gates of Jerusalem on the sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in her gates. And it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem; yea, it shall not be put out.