Let not your heart be troubled. Have faith in God, and have faith in me.
In my Father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. For I go away to prepare a place for you;
and when I have gone away and prepared a place for you, I will come again, and will take you to myself; that where I am, ye also may be.
And ye know the way whither I go.
Thomas saith to him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; how then do we know the way?
Jesus saith to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one cometh to the Father but through me.
If ye knew me, ye would know my Father also; and from this time ye know him, and have seen him.
Philip saith to him, Lord, show us the Father, and we shall be satisfied.
Jesus saith to him, Have I been so long time with you, and dost thou not know me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father; how is it that thou sayest, Show us the Father?
Dost thou not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, I speak not from myself; but the Father, who dwelleth in me, doeth his works.
Believe me, that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; but if not, believe for the very works’ sake.
Truly, truly do I say to you, He that believeth in me, the works that I do shall he do also, and greater than these shall he do; because I am going to the Father,
and whatever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do; that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments;
and I will pray the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, that he may be with you for ever;
the Spirit of truth, which the world cannot receive, because it doth not behold it, nor know it; ye know it, because it abideth with you, and will be in you.
I will not leave you bereaved; I am coming to you.
Yet a little while, and the world beholdeth me no more; but ye will behold me, because I live, and ye will live.
In that day ye will know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.
He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me; and he that loveth me will be loved by my Father; and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
Judas, not Iscariot, saith to him, And how is it, Lord, that thou art going to manifest thyself to us, and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, If any one loveth me, he will keep my word; and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our abode with him.
He that loveth me not, keepeth not my words; and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father’s who sent me.
These things have I spoken to you, while abiding with you;
but the Comforter, the Holy Spirit which the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all things which I have said to you.
Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you; not as the world giveth, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor let it be afraid.
Ye heard me say to you, I am going away, and am coming again to you. If ye loved me, ye would have rejoiced that I go to the Father; for the Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it hath come to pass, that when it hath come to pass ye may believe.
I shall not talk much more with you. For the prince of the world cometh, and hath nothing in me.
But [this must be] that the world may know that I love the Father, and that as the Father gave me commandment so I do. Arise, let us go hence.