And when He had called to Him His twelve disciples, He gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease.
And the names of the twelve apostles are these: First, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee and John his brother;
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax-collector; James the son of Alpheus, and Lebbeus, whose surname was Thaddeus;
Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.
Jesus sent out these twelve, commanding them, saying, Do not go into the way of the nations, and do not enter into any city of the Samaritans.
But rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And as you go, proclaim, saying, The kingdom of Heaven is at hand.
Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out demons. You have received freely, freely give.
Do not provide gold nor silver, nor copper in your purses,
nor a bag for the journey, nor two coats, nor sandals, nor staves. For the workman is worthy of his food.
And into whatever city or village you enter, inquire who within it is worthy. And there abide until you go away from there.
And when you come into a house, greet it.
And if the house is worthy, let your peace come on it. But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
And whoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when you depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet.
Truly I say to you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be as wise as serpents and as harmless as doves.
But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to the sanhedrins, and they will scourge you in their synagogues.
And you shall be brought before governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony against them and the nations.
But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or what you shall speak; for it shall be given you in that same hour what you shall speak.
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.
And brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child. And the children shall rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death.
And you will be hated of all men for My name's sake, but the one who endures to the end shall be kept safe.
But when they persecute you in this city, flee into another; for truly I say to you, In no way shall you have finished the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes.
A disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his lord.
It is enough for the disciple that he is like his master, and the servant like his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more those of his household?
Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and nothing hidden which shall not be known.
What I tell you in darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear, proclaim on the housetops.
And do not fear those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. But rather fear Him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for an assarion? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Therefore do not fear, you are of more value than many sparrows.
Then everyone who shall confess Me before men, I will confess him before My Father who is in Heaven.
But whoever shall deny Me before men, I will also deny him before My Father in Heaven.
Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth. I did not come to send peace, but a sword.
For I have come to set a man against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And a man's foes shall be those of his own household.
He who loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me. And he who loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me.
And he who does not take up his cross and follow Me is not worthy of Me.
He who finds his life shall lose it. And he who loses his life for My sake shall find it.
He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.
He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. And he who receives a just one in the name of a just one will receive a just one's reward.
And whoever shall give to one of these little ones a cup of cold water to drink, only in the name of a disciple, truly I say to you, He shall in no way lose his reward.