A Prayer of the afflicted, when he fainteth, and poureth out his complaint before HaShem.
O HaShem, hear my prayer, and let my cry come unto Thee.
Hide not Thy face from me in the day of my distress; incline Thine ear unto me; in the day when I call answer me speedily.
For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as a hearth.
My heart is smitten like grass, and withered; for I forget to eat my bread.
By reason of the voice of my sighing my bones cleave to my flesh.
I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I am become as an owl of the waste places.
I watch, and am become like a sparrow that is alone upon the housetop.
Mine enemies taunt me all the day; they that are mad against me do curse by me.
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping,
Because of Thine indignation and Thy wrath; for Thou hast taken me up, and cast me away.
My days are like a lengthening shadow; and I am withered like grass.
But Thou, O HaShem, sittest enthroned for ever; and Thy name is unto all generations.
Thou wilt arise, and have compassion upon Zion; for it is time to be gracious unto her, for the appointed time is come.
For Thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and love her dust.
So the nations will fear the name of HaShem, and all the kings of the earth Thy glory;
When HaShem hath built up Zion, when He hath appeared in His glory;
When He hath regarded the prayer of the destitute, and hath not despised their prayer.
This shall be written for the generation to come; and a people which shall be created shall praise HaShem.
For He hath looked down from the height of His sanctuary; from heaven did HaShem behold the earth;
To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;
That men may tell of the name of HaShem in Zion, and His praise in Jerusalem;
When the peoples are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve HaShem.
He weakened my strength in the way; He shortened my days.
I say: 'O my G-d, take me not away in the midst of my days, Thou whose years endure throughout all generations.
Of old Thou didst lay the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the work of Thy hands.
They shall perish, but Thou shalt endure; yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt Thou change them, and they shall pass away;
But Thou art the selfsame, and Thy years shall have no end.
The children of Thy servants shall dwell securely, and their seed shall be established before Thee.'