And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel, and say to them, My offering and My bread for My sacrifices made by fire, a sweet savor to Me, you shall be careful to offer to Me in their due season.
And you shall say to them, This is the fire offering which you shall offer to the LORD: two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, a continual burnt offering.
The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer between the evenings.
And a tenth of an ephah of flour for a food offering, mixed with the fourth of a hin of beaten oil.
It is a continual burnt offering which was ordained in Mount Sinai for a sweet savor, a fire offering to the LORD,
and its drink offering shall be the fourth of a hin for the one lamb. Pour a drink offering of strong drink to the LORD in the holy place.
And the other lamb you shall offer between the evenings, even as the food offering of the morning, and as its drink offering, you shall offer it, a fire offering, a sweet savor to the LORD.
And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two-tenth parts of flour for a food offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering;
this is the burnt offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering, and its drink offering.
And in the beginning of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD: two young bulls, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot,
and three tenth parts of flour for a food offering, mixed with oil, for one bull, and two-tenth parts of flour for a food offering, mixed with oil, for one ram;
and a separate tenth part of flour mixed with oil for a food offering to one lamb, for a burnt offering of a sweet savor, a fire offering to the LORD.
And their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine to a bull, and the third of a hin to a ram, and a fourth a hin to a lamb. This is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering to the LORD shall be prepared, besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the Passover of the LORD.
And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast. Seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
In the first day shall be a holy convocation. You shall do no kind of laboring work.
But you shall offer a fire offering for a burnt offering to the LORD: two young bulls, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year. They shall be to you without blemish.
And their food offering shall be of flour mixed with oil: three tenth parts you shall prepare for a bull, and two tenth parts for a ram.
You shall prepare one tenth part for the one lamb, and for the seven lambs;
and one goat, a sin offering to make an atonement for you.
You shall prepare these besides the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
In this way you shall offer daily, seven days, the bread of the fire offering, a sweet savor to the LORD. It shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no laboring work.
And in the day of the first-fruits, when you bring a new food offering to the LORD in your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no laboring work.
And you shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savor to the LORD: two young bulls, one ram, seven lambs of the first year
and their food offering of flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts to one bull, two tenth parts to one ram,
one tenth part to one lamb, for the seven lambs,
one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.
You shall offer them besides the continual burnt offering and its food offering and their drink offerings. They shall be to you without blemish.