After the rage was ceased Paul called the disciples vnto him and toke his leave of them and departed for to goo into Macedonia.
And when he had gone over those parties and geven them large exhortacions he came into Grece
and there abode .iii. monethes. And when the Iewes layde wayte for him as he was about to sayle into Syria he purposed to returne thorowe Macedonia.
Ther acompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berrea and of Thessalonia Aristarcus and Secundus and Gayus of Derba and Timotheus: and out of Asia Tychicus and Trophimos.
These went before and taryed vs at Troas.
And we sayled awaye fro Philippos after the ester holydayes and came vnto them to Troas in five dayes where we abode seven dayes.
And on the morowe after the saboth daye the disciples came to geder for to breake breed and Paul preached vnto them (redy to departe on the morowe) and cotinued the preachynge vnto mydnyght.
And there were many lyghtes in the chamber where thy were gaddered to geder
and there sate in a wyndowe a certayne yonge man named Eutichos fallen into a depe slepe. And as Paul declared he was the moare overcome with slepe and fell doune from the thyrde lofte and was taken vp deed.
Paul went doune and fell on him and embrased him and sayde: make nothinge ado for his lyfe is in him.
When he was come vp agayne he brake breed and tasted and comened a longe whyle even tyll the mornynge and so departed.
And they brought the youge man a lyve and were not alytell comforted.
And we went a fore to shippe and lowsed vnto Asson there to receave Paul. For so had he apoynted and wolde him selfe goo a fote.
When he was come to vs vnto Asson we toke him in and came to Mytelenes.
And we sayled thence and came the nexte daye over agaynst Chios. And the nexte daye we aryved at Samos and taryed at Trogilion. The nexte daye we came to Myleton:
for Paul had determined to leave Ephesus as they sayled because he wolde not spende ye tyme in Asia. For he hasted to be (yf he coulde possible) at Ierusalem at the daye of pentecoste.
Wherfore from Myleton he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the cogregacion.
And when they were come to him he sayde vnto the: Ye knowe fro the fyrst daye yt I came vnto Asia after what maner I have bene wt you at all ceasons
servynge the lorde with all humblenes of mynde and with many teares and temptacions which happened vnto me by the layinges awayte of the Ieues
and how I kept backe no thinge that was profitable: but that I have shewed you and taught you openly and at home in youre houses
witnessinge bothe to the Iewes and also to the Grekes the repentaunce toward God and faith towarde oure Lorde Iesu.
And now beholde I goo bounde in the sprete vnto Ierusalem and knowe not what shall come on me there
but that the holy goost witnesseth in every cite sayinge: yt bondes and trouble abyde me.
But none of tho thinges move me: nether is my lyfe dere vnto my selfe that I myght fulfill my course wt ioye and the ministracio which I have receaved of ye Lorde Iesu to testify the gospell of ye grace of god.
And now beholde I am sure yt hence forth ye all (thorow who I have gone preachinge ye kyngdome of God) shall se my face no moore.
Wherfore I take you to recorde this same daye that I am pure fro the bloude of all me.
For I have kepte nothinge backe: but have shewed you all the counsell of God.
Take hede therfore vnto youre selves and to all the flocke wherof the holy goost hath made you oversears to rule the congregacion of God which he hath purchased with his bloud.
For I am sure of this that after my departynge shall greveous wolves entre in amonge you which will not spare the flocke.
Moreover of youre awne selves shall men aryse speakinge perverse thinges to drawe disciples after the.
Therfore awake and remember that by the space of .iii. yeares I ceased not to warne every one of you both nyght and daye with teares.
And now brethren I comende you to God and to the worde of his grace which is able to bylde further and to geve you an inheritaunce amoge all them which are sanctified.
I have desyred no mas silver golde or vesture.
Ye knowe well yt these hondes have ministred vnto my necessities and to them that were wt me.
I have shewed you all thinges how that so laborynge ye ought to receave the weake and to remember the wordes of the Lorde Iesu howe that he sayde: It is more blessed to geve then to receave.
When he had thus spoken he kneled doune and prayed with them all.
And they wept all aboundantly and fell on Pauls necke and kissed him
sorowinge most of all for the wordes which he spake that they shuld se his face no moore. And they acompanyed him vnto the shyppe.