I solemnly charge you, in the sight of God and of Christ Jesus, who will one day judge the living and the dead — I charge you by his Appearing and by his Kingdom: —
Proclaim the Message, be ready in season and out of season, convince, rebuke, encourage, never failing to instruct with forbearance.
For a time will come when people will not tolerate sound teaching. They will follow their own wishes, and, in their itching for novelty, procure themselves a crowd of teachers.
They will turn a deaf ear to the Truth, and give their attention to legends instead.
But you, Timothy, must always be temperate. Face hardships; do the work of a Missionary; discharge all the duties of your Office.
As for me, my life blood is already being poured out; the time of my departure is close at hand.
I have run the great Race; I have finished the Course; I have kept the Faith.
And now the crown of righteousness awaits me, which the Lord, the just Judge, will give me on ‘That Day’ — and not only to me, but to all who have loved his Appearing.
Do your utmost to come to me soon;
for Demas, in his love for the world, has deserted me. He has gone to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia.
There is no one but Luke with me. Pick up Mark on your way, and bring him with you, for he is useful to me in my work.
I have sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
Bring with you, when you come, the cloak which I left at Troas with Carpus, and the books, especially the parchments.
Alexander, the coppersmith, showed much ill-feeling towards me. ‘The Lord will give him what his actions deserve.’
Do you also, be on your guard against him, for he is strongly opposed to our teaching.
At my first trial no one stood by me. They all deserted me. May it never be counted against them!
But the Lord came to my help and strengthened me, in order that, through me, the proclamation should be made so widely that all the Gentiles should hear it; and I was rescued ‘out of the Lion’s mouth.’
The Lord will rescue me from all evil, and bring me safe into his Heavenly Kingdom. All glory to him for ever and ever! Amen.
Give my greeting to Prisca and Aquila, and to the household of Onesiphorus.
Erastus remained at Corinth, and I left Thophimus ill at Miletus.
Do your utmost to come before winter. Eubulus, Pudens, Linus and Claudia send you their greetings, and so do all our Brothers.
May the Lord be with your soul. God bless you all.