And when Jesus departed he was going from the temple. And his disciples came near to exhibit to him the buildings of the temple.
But Jesus said to them, Do ye not see all these things? Truly I say to you, there will be left here, no, not a stone upon a stone, that will not be thrown down.
And as he sat on the mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us, when will these things be? And what is the sign of thy coming, and of the termination of the age?
And having answered, Jesus said to them, See that not any man may lead you astray.
For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will lead many astray.
And ye are going to hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye not be alarmed, for all the things must happen, but the end is not yet.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and plagues and earthquakes in places.
But all these things are the beginning of travail.
Then they will deliver you up for tribulation, and will kill you, and ye will be hated by all the nations because of my name.
And then many will be caused to stumble, and they will betray each other and will hate each other.
And many false prophets will arise, and will lead many astray.
And because of the increased lawlessness, the love of the many will become cold.
But he who endures to the end, this man will be saved.
And this good news of the kingdom will be proclaimed in the whole world for a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come.
When therefore ye see the abomination of desolation that was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let him who reads understand),
then let those in Judea flee to the mountains.
Let the man on the housetop not go down to take things from his house.
And let the man in the field not return back to take his clothes.
And woe to those who have in the womb and to those who suckle in those days.
And pray ye that your flight may not happen in winter, nor on a sabbath,
for then there will be great tribulation, such as not has happened from the beginning of the world until now, nor, no, it will not happen.
And if those days were not shortened, no flesh would be saved. But because of the chosen those days will be shortened.
Then if any man should say to you, Lo, here is the Christ, or, Here, believe ye not.
For there will arise false Christs and false prophets, and they will give great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen.
Behold, I have foretold it to you.
If therefore they should say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness, do not go forth. Behold, he is in the inner chambers, do not believe.
For as the lightning comes out from the east, and shines as far as the west, so also will be the coming of the Son of man.
For wherever the carcass may be, there the vultures will be gathered together.
But straightaway after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. And the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
And then the sign of the Son of man will appear in the sky. And then all the tribes of the earth will beat the breast, and they will see the Son of man coming in the clouds of the sky with power and much glory.
And he will send forth his agents with a great trumpet sound, and they will gather together his chosen from the four winds, from the boundaries of the heavens-as far as their boundaries.
Now learn a parable from the fig tree. When its branch now becomes tender, and sprouts leaves, ye know that the summer is near.
So ye also, when ye see all these things, know that it is near, at the doors.
Truly I say to you, this generation will, no, not pass away, until all these things happen.
The sky and the earth will pass away, but my words may, no, not pass away.
But about that day and hour no man knows, not even the agents of the heavens, except my Father only.
And as the days of Noah, so also will be the coming of the Son of man.
For as in the days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until that day Noah entered into the ark.
And they knew not until the flood came, and took them all away. So also will be the coming of the Son of man.
Then two men will be in the field, one is taken, and one is left.
Two women grinding at the mill, one is taken, and one is left.
Watch therefore, because ye know not at what hour your Lord comes.
But know this, that if the house-ruler had known in what watch the thief was coming, he would have watched, and would not have allowed his house to be broken into.
Because of this ye also be ready, because in that hour ye think not the Son of man comes.
Who then is the faithful and wise bondman, whom his lord appointed over his service, to give them the provision on time?
Blessed is that bondman, whom his lord when he comes will find so doing.
Truly I say to you, that he will appoint him over all things being possessed by him.
But if that evil bondman should say in his heart, My lord is late coming,
and should begin to beat the fellow bondmen, and to eat and drink with the drunken,
the lord of that bondman will come in a day that he does not expect, and in an hour that he is not aware,
and he will cut him in two, and place his share with the hypocrites. There will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.