Since the Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, be ye also armed with the same thought; for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,
so that now the time that remains in the flesh, he might live, not unto the lusts of men, but unto the will of God.
For it should suffice us that during the time past of [our] life we had done the will of the Gentiles, when we conversed in lasciviousness, lusts, drunkenness, gluttony, orgies, and abominable idolatries.
And it seems strange to those that speak evil of you, that ye do not run with [them] to the same unchecked dissolution;
the same shall give account to him that is ready to judge the living and the dead.
Because for this cause was the gospel preached also to those that are dead, that they might be judged in flesh according to men, but live in spirit according to God.
But the end of all things is at hand; be ye, therefore, temperate and watch unto prayer.
And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves; for charity shall cover [a] multitude of sins.
Lovingly be hospitable one to another without murmuring.
Let each one according to the gift that he has received, administer it unto the others, as a good steward of the diverse graces of God.
If anyone speaks, [let him speak] as the oracles of God; if anyone ministers, [let them do it] according to the virtue which God gives, that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus, the Christ, unto whom is glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Beloved, think it not strange when you are tried by fire (which is done to prove you) as though some strange thing happened unto you,
but rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of the afflictions of the Christ, so that also in the revelation of his glory, ye may rejoice in triumph.
If ye are reproached for the name of Christ, blessed [are ye]; for the glory and the Spirit of God rests upon you; certainly on their part he is blasphemed, but on your part he is glorified.
So let none of you suffer as a murderer, or [as] a thief, or [as] an evildoer, or as desirous of the things of others.
But if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf.
For it is time that the judgment begins from the house of God; and if [it] first [begins] with us, what shall the end [be] of those that do not obey the gospel of God?
And if the righteous are saved with difficulty, where shall the unfaithful and the sinner appear?
Therefore, let those that are afflicted according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls [unto him] as unto a faithful Creator, doing good.: