And when Abram was ninety-nine years old, the LORD appeared to Abram and said to him, I am the Almighty God! Walk before Me and be perfect.
And I will make My covenant between Me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly.
And Abram fell on his face. And God talked with him, saying,
As for Me, behold! My covenant is with you, and you shall be a father of many nations.
Neither shall your name any more be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham. For I have made you a father of many nations.
And I will make you exceedingly fruitful, greatly so, and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come out of you.
And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your seed after you in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God to you and to your seed after you.
And I will give the land to you in which you are a stranger, and to your seed after you, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession. And I will be their God.
And God said to Abraham, And you shall keep My covenant, you and your seed after you in their generations.
This is My covenant, which you shall keep, between Me and you and your seed after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised.
And you shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin. And it shall be a token of the covenant between Me and you.
And a son of eight days shall be circumcised among you, every male child in your generations; he that is born in the house, or bought with silver of any stranger who is not of your seed.
He that is born in your house, and he that is bought with your silver, must be circumcised. And my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
And the uncircumcised male child whose flesh of his foreskin is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he has broken My covenant.
And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but her name shall be Sarah.
And I will bless her, and give you a son also of her. Yes, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations, kings of people shall be from her.
And Abraham fell upon his face and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born to him that is a hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear?
And Abraham said to God, Oh that Ishmael might live before You!
And God said, Sarah your wife shall bear you a son indeed. And you shall call his name Isaac. And I will establish My covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.
And as for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He shall father twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation.
But I will establish My covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this set time in the next year.
And He left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
And Abraham took his son Ishmael, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his silver; every male among the men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskins in the same day, even as God said to him.
And Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
And his son Ishmael was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
In the same day Abraham and his son Ishmael were circumcised.
And all the men of his house, that were born in the house, and bought with silver of the stranger, were circumcised with him.