And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and say to them, This is the thing which the LORD has commanded, saying,
Any man of the house of Israel who kills an ox or lamb or goat in the camp, or kills it out of the camp,
and does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer as offering to the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD, blood shall be charged to that man; he has shed blood. And that man shall be cut off from among his people,
so that the sons of Israel may bring their sacrifices which they offer in the open field, even that they may bring them to the LORD, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to the priest, and offer them for peace offerings to the LORD.
And the priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of the LORD at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and burn the fat for a sweet savor to the LORD.
And they shall no more offer their sacrifices to goats, after whom they have gone whoring. This shall be a statute forever to them throughout their generations.
And you shall say to them, Any man of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who are staying among you, offers a burnt offering or sacrifice,
and does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation to offer it to the LORD, even that man shall be cut off from among his people.
And any man of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that are staying among you, who eats any blood, I will set My face against that soul who eats blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
For the life of the flesh is in the blood. And I have given it to you on the altar to make an atonement for your souls. For it is the blood that makes an atonement for the soul.
Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger that is staying among you eat blood.
And any man of the sons of Israel, or of the strangers that are staying among you, who hunts game, beast or fowl, that may be eaten, he shall even pour out its blood and cover it with dust.
For it is the life of all flesh. Its blood is for the life of it. Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, You shall eat the blood of any flesh. For the life of all flesh is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off.
And any soul that eats a dead body, or a torn thing, whether a native or a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. Then he shall be clean.
But if he does not wash, nor bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.