And Abraham departed thence towarde the southcontre and dwelled betwene Cades and Sur ad sogeorned in Gerar.
And Abraham sayde of Sara his wyfe that she was his sister. Than Abimelech kynge of Gerar sent and fett Sara awaye.
And God came to Abimelech by nyghte in a dreame and sayde to him: Se thou art but a deed man for the womas sake which thou hast taken awaye for she is a mans wyfe.
But Abimelech had not yet come nye her and therfore sayde: lorde wilt thou sley rightewes people?
sayde not he vnto me that she was hys sister? yee and sayde not she herself that he was hir brother? wyth a pure herte and innocent handes haue I done this.
And God sayde vnto him in a dreame. I wot it well that thou dydest it in the purenesse of thi herte. And therfore I kepte ye that thou shuldest not synne agenst me nether suffred I the to come nygh her.
Now therfore delyuer the ma his wyfe ageyne for he is a prophete. And let him praye for the that thou mayst lyue. But and yf thou delyuer her not agayne be sure that thou shalt dye the deth with all that thou hast.
Than Abimelech rose vp be tymes in the mornynge and called all his servauntes and tolde all these thinges in their eares and the men were sore a frayde.
And Abimelech called Abraham and sayde vnto him: What hast thou done vnto vs and what haue I offended the that thou shuldest brynge on me and on my kyngdome so greate a synne? thou hast done dedes vnto me that ought not to be done.
And Abimelech sayde morouer vnto Abraham: What sawest thou that moved the to do this thinge?
And Abraham Answered. I thought that peradveture the feare of God was not in this place and that they shulde sley me for my wyfes sake:
yet in very dede she is my sister the doughter of my father but not of my mother: and became my wyfe.
And after God caused me to wandre out of my fathers house I sayde vnto her: This kyndnesse shalt thou shewe vnto me in all places where we come that thou saye of me how that I am thy brother.
Than toke Abimelech shepe and oxen menservauntes and wemenseruauntes and gaue them vnto Abraham and delyvered him Sara his wyfe agayne.
And Abimelech sayde: beholde the lande lyeth be fore the dwell where it pleaseth ye best.
And vnto Sara he sayde: Se I haue geuen thy brother a thousande peeces of syluer beholde he shall be a couerynge to thyne eyes vnto all that ar with the and vnto all men and an excuse.
And so Abraham prayde vnto God and God healed Abimeleh and his wyfe and hys maydens so that they bare.
For the LORde had closed to all the matryces of the house of Abimelech because of Sara Abrahams wyfe.