And thou, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee, and portray upon it a city, even Jerusalem.
And lay siege against it, and build a tower against it, and cast up a mound against it; set a camp also against it, and place battering-rams against it round about.
Moreover, take thou an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between thee and the city; and set thy face against it, that it may be besieged; and lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.
Lie thou also upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it. According to the number of days that thou shalt lie upon it, thou shalt bear their iniquity.
But for the years of their iniquity I appoint thee days, three hundred and ninety days; so long shalt thou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
And when thou hast brought them to an end, then lie upon thy right side, and bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days. I have appointed thee a day for a year.
And set thy face against besieged Jerusalem, and uncover thine arm, and prophesy against it!
And behold, I will lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turn thee from one side to another till thou hast ended the days of thy siege.
Take thou also wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentiles, and millet, and spelt, and put them into one vessel, and make thereof thy bread for the number of days that thou shalt lie upon thy side; three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat thereof.
And thy food which thou eatest shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day; from time to time shalt thou eat it.
Thou shalt also drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin; from time to time shalt thou drink.
Thou shalt also eat barley-cakes; and with dung that cometh out of man shalt thou bake them in their sight.
And Jehovah said, Even thus shall the sons of Israel eat their polluted food among the nations, whither I will drive them.
Then said I: Ah! Lord Jehovah, behold, I have never been polluted; for from my youth until now have I not eaten that which died of itself, or was torn in pieces; neither hath unclean food come into my mouth.
Then he said to me: Behold, I give thee cow’s dung for man’s dung; and with that shalt thou prepare thy food.
And he said to me: Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem, and they shall eat bread by weight and with care, and they shall drink water by measure and in amazement;
so that they shall be in want of bread and water, and be astonished one at another, and consume away for their iniquity.