But the man who is weak in the faith, do not receive for arguments of opinions.
One man has faith to eat all things, but he who is weak eats vegetables.
The man who eats should not disdain the man who does not eat, and the man who does not eat should not criticize the man who eats, for God has received him.
Who are thou who criticizes the servant of another? To his own lord he stands or falls. And he will be made to stand, for God is able to make him stand.
One man prefers one day above another, another man prefers every day. Let each man be fully persuaded in his own mind.
He who regards the day, regards it for the Lord. And he who does not regard the day, for the Lord he does not regard it. And he who eats, eats for the Lord, for he expresses thanks to God. And he who does not eat, for the Lord he does not eat, and expresses thanks to God.
For none of us lives to himself, and no man dies to himself.
For both if we live, we live for the Lord, and if we die, we die for the Lord. Both if we live and if we die, therefore, we are the Lord's.
For because of this Christ both died and arose, and he became alive so that he might be Lord over both the dead and the living.
But why do thou criticize thy brother? Or also why do thou disdain thy brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
For it is written, I live, says the Lord, that every knee will bow to me, and every tongue will confess to God.
So then each of us will give account about himself to God.
Let us not therefore criticize each other any more, but judge ye this instead, not to place a stumbling block to the brother, or a snare.
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is profane by itself, except to him who regards anything to be profane. To that man it is profane.
For if thy brother is distressed because of food, thou no longer walk according to love. Do not destroy with thy food that man for whom Christ died.
Therefore do not let your good be maligned.
For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
For he who serves Christ in these things is acceptable to God, and approved by men.
So then we should pursue the things of peace, and the things of constructiveness for each other.
Do not tear down the work of God because of food. All things indeed are clean, but it is wrong to the man who eats through hindrance.
It is good not to eat meats, nor to drink wine, nor in whatever thy brother stumbles against, or is caused to stumble, or becomes weak.
The faith thou have, have in relation to thyself before God. Blessed is the man not condemning himself in what he allows.
But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because it is not from faith, and everything that is not from faith is sin.