Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his nobles. And he drank wine before the thousand.
When tasting the wine, Belshazzar commanded the golden and silver vessels brought, those his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple in Jerusalem, that the king and his nobles, his wives, and his concubines might drink with them.
Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the temple of the house of God in Jerusalem. And the king, his nobles, his wives, and his concubines drank with them.
They drank wine and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, and of bronze, of iron, wood, and stone.
At that moment fingers of a man's hand came out and wrote on the plaster of the wall of the king's palace across from the lampstand. And the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.
Then the king's color was changed, and his thoughts troubled him, so that the joints of his loins shook, and his knees knocked one against the other .
The king cried aloud to bring in the conjurers, the Chaldeans, and the star gazers. The king spoke and said to the wise men of Babylon, Any man who can read this writing and reveal its meaning shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold around his neck. And he shall rule third in the kingdom.
Then all the king's wise men came in. But they could not read the writing or make the meaning known to the king.
Then king Belshazzar was greatly troubled, and his face was changing on him, and his nobles were perplexed.
The queen came in to the banquet house because of the words of the king and his nobles. The queen spoke and said, O king, live forever, do not let your thoughts trouble you, and do not let your face be changed.
There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the spirit of the holy gods. And in the days of your father, light and understanding and wisdom was found in him, like the wisdom of the gods. Your father, king Nebuchadnezzar, your father the king, appointed him master of the horoscopists, conjurers, Chaldeans and fortunetellers,
because an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, explaining of dreams, and revealing of hard sentences, and the unraveling of knots, were found in this Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will reveal the meaning.
Then Daniel was thrust in before the king. The king spoke and said to Daniel, Are you that Daniel who is of the sons of the exiled of Judah, whom my father the king brought out of Judah?
I have even heard of you, that the spirit of the gods is in you, and light, and excellent wisdom, and understanding are found in you.
And now the wise men and the conjurers have been thrust in before me, so that they might read this writing and make the meaning known to me. But they were not able to declare the meaning of the thing.
And I have heard of you, that you can interpret meanings, and unravel knots. Now if you can read the writing and reveal its meaning to me, you shall be clothed with purple and have a golden chain around your neck, and you will rule third in the kingdom.
Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let your gifts be to yourself, and give your rewards to another. Yet I will read the writing to the king, and make the meaning known to him.
O king, the Most High God gave your father Nebuchadnezzar a kingdom, and majesty, and glory, and honor.
And for the majesty that He gave him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him. He killed whom he desired, and whom he desired he kept alive. And whom he would, he set up; and whom he desired, he put down.
But when his heart was lifted up, and his mind hardened in pride, he was put down from the throne of his kingdom, and they took his glory from him.
And he was driven from the sons of men. And his heart was made like the animals, and his home was with the wild asses. They fed him with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the heavens, until he knew that the Most High God is Ruler in the kingdom of men, and that He appoints over it whomever He desires.
And you, his son, O Belshazzar, have not bowed your heart, though you knew all this.
But you have lifted yourself up against the Lord of Heaven. And they have brought the vessels of His house before you. And you, and your nobles, your wives, and your concubines have drunk wine from them. And you have praised the gods of silver, and gold, bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see, nor hear, and do not know. And you have not glorified the God in whose hand your life breath and all your ways is .
Then the part of the hand was sent from Him, and this writing was written.
And this is the writing that was written: A MINA, A MINA, A SHEKEL, AND HALF MINAS.
This is the meaning of the thing: A MINA: God has numbered your kingdom and finished it.
A SHEKEL: You are weighed in the balances and found lacking.
HALF MINAS: Your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians.
Then Belshazzar commanded, and they clothed Daniel with purple, and a necklace of gold around his neck. And they made a proclamation concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.
In that night Belshazzar, the king of the Chaldeans, was killed.
And Darius the Mede took the kingdom, being a son of sixty two years.