And Joseph fell upon the face of his father, and wept upon him and kissed him.
Then Joseph commanded his servants the physicians, to embalm his father,—so the physicians embalmed Israel.
And they fulfilled for him forty days, for so, are they wont to fulfil the days of the embalmed,—and the Egyptians wept for him seventy days.
And, when the days of weeping for him were passed, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh saying,—If I pray you, I have found favour in your eyes, speak ye I pray you in the ears of Pharaoh saying:
My father, made me swear saying,—Lo! I, am about to die,—in my grave which I digged for myself in the land of Canaan, there, shalt thou bury me. Now, therefore, let me go up, I pray thee and bury my father, and return.
And Pharaoh said,—Go up., and bury thy father according as he made thee swear.
So Joseph went up. to bury his father,—and there went up with him all the servants of Pharaoh the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt;
and all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and the house of his father,—only their little ones and their flocks and their herds, left they. in the land of Goshen.
And there went up with him, both chariots and horsemen,—so it came to pass that, the company, was exceeding great,
And they came in, as far as the threshing-floor of the Buckthorn, which is beyond the Jordan, then wailed they there—an exceeding great and grievous wailing,—and he made for his father a mourning, of seven days.
And when the dwellers in the land—the Canaanites—saw the mourning in the threshing-floor of the Buckthorn, they said,—A grievous mourning, this! for the Egyptians. For this cause, was the name thereof called Abel Mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan.
And his sons did for him thus as he had commanded them;
so his sons carried him to the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah,—which Abraham bought—with the field—for a possession of a buryingplace from Ephron the Hittite over against Mamre.
Then Joseph returned to Egypt he and his brethren and all who had been up with him to bury his father,—after he had buried his father.
Now when the brethren of Joseph saw that their father was dead, they said—Oh! if Joseph should lie in wait for us,—and should return, to us, all the evil wherewith we requited him!
So they sent in charge unto Joseph saying,—Thy father, gave command before he died saying:
Thus, shall ye say to Joseph—Ah now! do forgive we pray thee the transgression of thy brethren and their sin in that with evil, they requited thee. Now, therefore grant forgiveness we pray thee, for the transgression of the servants of the God of thy father! And Joseph wept when they spake unto him.
Then went his brethren also, and fell down before him,—and said, Behold us! thine for servants.
And Joseph said unto them—Do not fear,—although in place of God, I am.
Ye, indeed, planned against me, evil,—God, planned it, for good, for the sake of doing, as at this day, to save alive much people.
Now, therefore do not fear! I will nourish you and your little ones. Thus he consoled them, and spake unto their heart.
And Joseph abode in Egypt, he, and his father’s house,—and Joseph lived a hundred and ten years.
And Joseph saw Ephraim’s, sons of three generations—moreover the sons of Machir, son of Manasseh, were born upon Joseph’s knees.
Then said Joseph unto his brethren, I, am about to die,—but God will surely concern, himself for you, so will he take you up out of this land, into the land which he sware to Abraham to Isaac and to Jacob.
Then Joseph made the sons of Israel swear saying,—God will, surely concern, himself for you, So shall ye carry up my bones, from hence.
So Joseph died, being a hundred and ten years old,—and they embalmed him, and put him in a coffin in Egypt.