So Dauid and the captaines of the armie separated for the ministerie the sonnes of Asaph, and Heman, and Ieduthun, who should sing prophesies with harpes, with violes, and with cymbales, and their nomber was euen of the men for the office of their ministerie, to wit,
Of the sonnes of Asaph, Zaccur, and Ioseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah the sonnes of Asaph were vnder the hand of Asaph, which sang prophesies by the commission of the King.
Of Ieduthun, the sonnes of Ieduthun, Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Ieshaiah, Ashabiah and Mattithiah, six, vnder the hands of their father: Ieduthun sang prophecies with an harpe, for to giue thankes and to praise the Lord.
Of Heman, the sonnes of Heman, Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Vzziel, Shebuel, and Ierimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, Ioshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth.
All these were the sonnes of Heman, the Kings Seer in the wordes of God to lift vp the horne: and God gaue to Heman fourtene sonnes and three daughters.
All these were vnder the hande of their father, singing in the house of the Lord with cymbales, violes and harpes, for the seruice of the house of God, and Asaph, and Ieduthun, and Heman were at the Kings commandement.
So was their nomber with their brethre that were instruct in ye songs of the Lord, euen of al that were cunning, two hundreth foure score and eight.
And they cast lottes, charge against charge, aswel small as great, the cunning man as the scholer.
And the first lot fell to Ioseph which was of Asaph, the second, to Gedaliah, who with his brethren and his sonnes were twelue.
The third, to Zaccur, he, his sonnes and his brethren were twelue.
The fourth, to Izri, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The fift, to Nethaniah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The sixt, to Bukkiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The seuenth, to Iesharelah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The eight, to Ieshaiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The ninth, to Mattaniah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The tenth, to Shimei, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The eleuenth, to Azareel, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The twelft, to Ashabiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The thirteenth, to Shubael, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The fourtenth, to Mattithiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The fifteenth, to Ierimoth, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The sixteenth, to Hananiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The seuenteenth, to Ioshbekashah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The eighteenth, to Hanani, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The ninteenth, to Mallothi, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The twentieth, to Eliathah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The one and twentieth, to Hothir, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The two and twentieth, to Giddalti, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The three and twentieth, to Mahazioth, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
The foure and twentieth, to Romamti-ezer, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.