If there is a controversy between men, and they come to judgment, and they have been judged, and the righteous one is declared righteous, and the wrongdoer declared guilty,
then it shall be, if the wrongdoer is worthy to be beaten, the judge shall cause him to fall down. And one shall strike him in his presence, enough for his wrong, by a certain number.
He may give him forty stripes, no more, lest he should exceed and beat him above these with many stripes, then your brother would be dishonored before your eyes.
You shall not muzzle an ox when he treads out the grain.
If brothers live together, and one of them dies and has no child, the wife of the dead shall not marry outside to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go in to her and take her as a wife for himself, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her.
And it shall be, the first-born whom she bears shall succeed in the name of his dead brother, so that his name may not be put out of Israel.
And if the man does not want to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate to the elders and say, My husband's brother refuses to raise up a name in Israel to his brother. He will not perform my levirate.
Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. And if he stands and says, I do not desire to take her,
then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of his elders, and take off his shoe from his foot, and spit in his face, and shall answer and say, So shall it be done to that man who will not build up his brother's house.
And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him who has his shoe taken off.
When men strive together with one another, and the wife of the one draws near to deliver her husband out of the hand of him who strikes him, and puts forth her hand and takes him by the secret parts,
then you shall cut off her hand. Your eye shall not pity.
You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a great stone and a small.
You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a great ephah and a small.
You shall have a perfect and just weight, a perfect and just measure you shall have, so that your days may be lengthened in the land which the LORD your God gives you.
For all that do such things, all that do unrighteousness, are hateful to the LORD your God.
Remember what Amalek did to you by the way, when you came forth out of Egypt,
how he met you by the way and struck those of you who were behind, all the feeble behind you, when you were faint and weary. And he did not fear God.
And it shall be when the LORD your God has given you rest from all your enemies all around in the land which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it, you shall blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heavens. You shall not forget.