In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head on his bed. Then he related the dream, giving the sum of the matters.
Daniel spoke and said, In my vision by night I was looking. And, behold, the four winds of the heavens were stirring up the Great Sea.
And four great beasts came up from the sea, different from one another.
The first was like a lion and had eagle's wings. I watched until its wings were torn off. And it was lifted up from the earth and made to stand on two feet like a man, and a man's heart was given to it.
And, behold, another beast, a second, like a bear. And it was raised up on one side, and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth. And they said this to it, Rise up, eat much flesh.
After this I was looking, and, behold, another like a leopard, and to it were four wings of a bird on its side. And also to the beast were four heads. And rulership was given to it.
And after this I was looking in the night visions. And, behold, the fourth beast was fearful and terrifying, and very strong! And to it were great iron teeth. It devoured, and crushed, and stamped what was left with its feet. And it was different from all the beasts before it; and it had ten horns.
I was thinking about the horns. And behold! Another little horn came up among them, and three of the first horns were uprooted before it. And behold! In this horn were eyes like the eyes of the man, and a mouth speaking great things.
I was looking until the thrones were thrown up, and the Ancient of Days sat, whose robe was white as snow and the hair of His head like pure wool. His throne was like flames of fire, its wheels like burning fire.
A stream of fire went out and came out from before Him. A thousand thousands served Him, and a myriad myriads stood before Him. The court was set and the books were opened.
Then I was looking because of the voice of the great words which the horn spoke. I was looking until the beast was killed, and his body was destroyed and given to the burning flame.
And the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away. Yet length of life was given them for a season and a time.
I was looking in the night visions. And behold! One like the Son of Man came with the clouds of the heavens. And He came to the Ancient of Days. And they brought Him near before Him.
And dominion was given to Him, and glory, and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve Him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and His kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.
I, Daniel, was distressed in my spirit amidst its sheath, and the visions of my head troubled me.
And I came near one of those who stood by and asked him the truth of all this. And he told me and made me know the meaning of the things.
These great beasts are four, four kings; they shall rise up out of the earth.
But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, even forever and ever.
Then I wanted to know the truth of the fourth beast, which was different from all of them, very frightening, whose teeth were of iron and its nails bronze; who devoured and crushed, and trampled what was left with its feet,
also of the ten horns that were on its head, and the other which came up, and before whom three fell, even that horn that had eyes, and a mouth speaking great things, and its look was greater than his fellows.
I was looking, and that horn made war with the saints and overcame them,
until the Ancient of Days came. And judgment was given to the saints of the Most High, and the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom.
And He said, The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different from all kingdoms, and shall devour all the earth, and shall trample it down and crush it.
And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings; they shall rise, and another shall rise after them. And he shall be different from the first, and he shall humble three kings.
And he shall speak words against the Most High, and he shall wear out the saints of the Most High. And he intends to change times and law. And they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and one half time.
But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his rulership, to cut off and to destroy until the end.
And the kingdom and rulership, and the greatness of the kingdom under all the heavens shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. And all kingdoms shall serve and obey Him.
Here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts troubled me much, and my face changed on me. But I kept the matter in my heart.