Then stand firm in the freedom with which Christ made us free and do not be held again with a yoke of slavery.
Behold, I, Paul, say to you that if you are circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
And I testify again to every man being circumcised, that he is a debtor to do all the Law,
you who are justified by law are deprived of all effect from Christ, you fell from grace.
For we through the Spirit eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness out of faith.
For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any strength, but faith working through love.
You were running well; who held you back that you do not obey the truth?
The persuasion is not from Him calling you.
A little leaven leavens all the lump.
I trust as to you in the Lord that you will think nothing else, but that the one troubling you shall bear the judgment, whoever he may be.
But I, brothers, if I proclaim circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the offense of the Cross has passed away.
I would that the ones causing you to doubt will cut themselves off.
For, brothers, you were called to freedom. Only do not use the freedom for an opening to the flesh. But through love serve one another.
For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this : "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." Lev. 19:18
But if you bite and devour one another, be careful that you are not consumed by one another.
But I say, Walk in the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh.
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary to one another; lest whatever you may will, these things you do.
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law.
Now the works of the flesh are clearly revealed, which are: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lustfulness,
idolatry, sorcery, hatreds, fightings, jealousies, angers, rivalries, divisions, heresies,
envyings, murders, drunkennesses, wild parties, and things like these; of which I tell you beforehand, as I also said before, that the ones practicing such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is: love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faith,
meekness, self-control. Against such things there is not a law.
But the ones belonging to Christ crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts.
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Let us not become glory seeking ones, provoking one another, envying one another.