LET brotherly love continue.
Forget not to exercise hospitality: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.
Remember those who are in chains, as in chains with them; and those who are suffering afflictions, as being yourselves also in the body.
Marriage is honourable for all persons, and the marriage bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Let the tenor of your life be divested of the love of money; content with your present possessions: for he hath said, “I will in no wise leave thee, neither will I in any case forsake thee.”
So that we may with confidence say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
Remember your presidents, who have spoken to you the word of God: the ultimate issue of whose conduct attentively observing, be imitators of their fidelity.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever.
Be not tossed about by various and strange doctrines: for it is good to have the heart firmly established by grace, not by meats, in which observances they who have walked have found no manner of advantage.
We have an altar, of which they have no right to eat, who perform the service in the tabernacle.
For the bodies of those beasts are burnt without the camp, whose blood for a sin offering is brought into the holy of holies by the high-priest.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
Therefore let us go forth to him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
For we have not here an abiding city, but we earnestly seek that which is to come.
By him therefore let us offer a sacrifice of praise perpetually to God, that is the fruit of our lips confessing his name.
But of beneficence, and liberal distribution, be not unmindful: for such sacrifices God accepts with delight.
Obey your presidents, and be subject to them: for they are vigilant for your souls, as being to render an account, that they may do it with joy, and not groaning: for that would be disadvantageous for you.
Pray for us: for we have confidence that we maintain a good conscience, in all things desirous to conduct ourselves with propriety.―
But I entreat you the rather to do this, that I may the more speedily be restored to you.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great pastor of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting testament,
make you fit for every good work to do his will, producing in you that which is acceptable in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory unto the everlasting ages. Amen.
But I entreat you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation; for I have written to you in few words.
Know that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
Salute all your presiding ministers, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you.
Grace be with you all.―Amen.   Written to the Hebrews from Italy by Timothy. \p