After these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for He did not desire to walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill Him.
And the Jewish Feast of Tabernacles was near.
Therefore His brothers said to Him, Move away from here and go into Judea, so that Your disciples also may see the works that You do.
For no one does anything in secret, while he himself seeks to be in public. If you do these things, reveal yourself to the world.
For His brothers did not believe in Him.
Then Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.
The world cannot hate you, but it hates Me because I testify of it, that its works are evil.
You go up to this feast; I am not yet going up to this feast; for My time is not yet fulfilled.
And saying He these things to them, He remained in Galilee.
But when His brothers had gone up, then He also went up to the feast, not openly, but as in secret.
Then the Jews sought Him at the feast and said, Where is He?
And there was much murmuring among the crowd concerning Him, for some said, He is a good man; others said, No, but he deceives the crowd.
However, no one spoke openly of Him, because of the fear of the Jews.
Now about the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught.
And the Jews marveled, saying, How does this man know letters, not being taught?
Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not Mine, but His who sent Me.
If anyone desires to do His will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it is of God, or I speak from Myself.
He who speaks of himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of Him who sent Him is true, and no unrighteousness is in Him.
Did not Moses give you the law? And yet not one of you keeps the law! Why do you seek to kill Me?
The crowd answered and said, You have a demon! Who seeks to kill you?
Jesus answered and said to them, I have done one work, and you all marvel.
Because of this Moses gave you circumcision (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers,) and you circumcise a man on the sabbath day.
If a man receives circumcision on the sabbath day so that the law of Moses should not be broken, are you angry at Me because I have made a man entirely sound on the sabbath day?
Do not judge according to sight, but judge righteous judgment.
Then some of those from Jerusalem said, Is this not the one they seek to kill?
But lo, he speaks publicly, and they say nothing to him. Perhaps the rulers truly know that this is the Christ indeed?
However, we know this one, from where he is; but when Christ comes, no one knows from where He is.
Then Jesus cried in the temple as He taught, saying, You both know Me, and you know from where I come. And I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me is true, whom you do not know.
But I know Him, for I am from Him, and He has sent Me.
Then they sought to seize Him, but no one laid a hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.
And many of the crowd believed on Him, and said, When the Christ comes, will He do more miracles than these which this One has done?
The Pharisees heard that the crowd murmured such things concerning Him. And the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to seize Him.
Then Jesus said to them, Yet a little while I am with you, and then I go to Him who sent Me.
You shall seek Me and shall not find Me. And where I am, you cannot come.
Then the Jews said among themselves, Where is he about to go that we shall not find him? Is he about to go to the Dispersion of the Greeks, and to teach the Greeks?
What saying is this that He said, You shall seek Me and shall not find Me, and where I am, you cannot come?
And in the last day of the great feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink.
He who believes on Me, as the Scripture has said, "Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water."
(But He spoke this about the Spirit, which they who believed on Him should receive; for the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.)
Then when they heard the Word, many of the people said, Truly this is the Prophet.
Others said, This is the Christ. But others said, Does the Christ come out of Galilee?
Has the Scripture not said that Christ comes from the seed of David and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was?
So a division occurred in the crowd because of Him.
And some of them desired to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him.
Then the officers came to the chief priests and Pharisees. And they said to them, Why have you not brought him?
The officers answered, Never did any man speak as does this Man.
Then the Pharisees answered them, Are you not also deceived?
Not any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?
But this crowd, not knowing the law, is cursed.
Nicodemus said to them, (he who came to Jesus by night, being one of them),
Does our law judge the Man before it hears Him and knows what He does?
They answered and said to him, Are you also from Galilee? Search the scriptures and see that a prophet has not been raised out of Galilee.
And they each went to his own house.