Woe to me! For I am like the gatherings of summer fruit, like the gleanings of the vintage. There is no cluster to eat; my soul desires the early fig.
The pious has perished from the earth, and the upright is not among mankind. All of them lie in wait for blood; each one hunts his brother with a net.
Both palms are on evil, to do it well. The ruler is asking for a bribe, also the judge. And the great one speaks the lust of his soul; he acts , and they weave it together.
The best of them is like a thorn; the upright more than a hedge of thorns. The day of your watchers, your visitation is coming; now their shame shall be.
Put no faith in a companion; put no trust in a friend; keep the door of your mouth from her who lies in your bosom;
for a son despises his father; a daughter rises up against her mother; the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man's enemies are the men of his house.
But I will look to Jehovah; I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me.
Rejoice not against me, my enemy; for if I fall, I shall arise. For if sit in darkness, Jehovah is a light to me.
I will bear the fury of Jehovah because I have sinned against Him, until He pleads my cause and brings forth justice for me. He will bring me out to the light; I shall see His righteousness.
And my enemy shall see; and shame shall cover her, the one saying to me, Where is He, Jehovah your God? My eyes shall look on her. Now she shall be for a trampling, as the mud of the streets.
A day of building your walls, that day the limit shall be far removed.
That day he shall come even to you from Assyria and the besieged cities, and from the siege even to the River, and from sea to sea, and mountain to mountain.
But the land shall become a waste because of those dwelling in it, from the fruit of their doings.
Feed Your people with Your rod, the flock of Your possession, dwelling alone in the thicket, amidst Carmel. Let them pasture in Bashan and Gilead, as in days of old.
As the days of your coming out from the land of Egypt, I will cause him to see extraordinary things.
The nations shall see and be ashamed from all their might. They shall set the hand on their mouth; their ears shall be deaf.
They shall lick the dust like a snake; they shall tremble out of their holes like crawlers of the earth; they shall dread Jehovah our God; they shall fear from You.
Who is a God like You, forgiving iniquity and passing by the transgression of the remnant of His possession? He does not make strong His anger forever, for He delights in grace.
He will return to show us compassion; He will trample our iniquities. Yea, You will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.
You will give faithfulness to Jacob, kindness to Abraham, which You have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.