Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had died, whom He raised from the dead.
Then they made Him a supper there, and Martha served. But Lazarus was one of those reclining with Him.
Then taking a pound of ointment of pure, costly spikenard, Mary anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped off His feet with her hairs. And the house was filled with the odor of the ointment.
Then Simon's son , one of His disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was about to betray Him, said,
Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?
But he said this, not that he was caring for the poor, but that he was a thief and held the moneybag and carried away the things being put in .
Then Jesus said, Allow her, for she has kept it for the day of My burial.
For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have Me.
Then a great crowd of the Jews learned that He was there. And they did not come because of Jesus alone, but that they also might see Lazarus whom He raised from the dead.
But the chief priests took counsel that they might put Lazarus to death also,
because through him many of the Jews went away and believed into Jesus.
On the morrow, coming to the Feast, hearing that Jesus is coming to Jerusalem, a great crowd
took palm branches and went out to a meeting with Him, and they were crying out, Hosanna! "Blessed is He coming in the name of the Lord," the King of Israel! Psa. 118:26
And finding an ass colt, Jesus sat on it, even as it had been written,
"Do not fear," "daughter of Zion. Behold, your King comes" "sitting on" "the foal of an ass." Isa. 40:9; Zech. 9:9
But His disciples did not know these things at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they recalled that these things had been written on Him, and that they did these things to Him.
Then the crowd which was with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead, witnessed.
Because of this also the crowd met Him, because it heard of this miracle He had done.
Then the Pharisees said to themselves, Observe that you gain nothing. Behold, the world has gone after Him.
And there were some Greeks among those coming up, that they might worship at the Feast.
Then these came to Philip, the one from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we desire to see Jesus.
Philip came and told Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip told Jesus.
But Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come that the Son of man should be glorified.
Truly, truly, I say to you, unless the grain of wheat that falls into the earth dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit.
The one who loves his life loses it, and the one who hates his life in this world will keep it to everlasting life.
If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there My servant will also be. And if anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him.
And My soul is troubled, and what may I say? Father, save Me out of this hour? But on this account I came to this hour.
Father, glorify Your name. Then a voice came out of the heaven: I both glorified it , and I will glorify it again.
Then standing and hearing, the crowd said that thunder occurred. Others said, An angel has spoken to Him.
Jesus answered and said, This voice has not occurred because of Me, but because of you.
Now is the judgment of this world; now the ruler of this world shall be cast out.
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all to Myself.
But He said this, signifying by what kind of death He was about to die.
The crowd answered Him, We heard out of the Law that the Christ remains forever. And how do you say that the Son of man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of man?
Then Jesus said to them, Yet a little while the Light is with you. Walk while you have the Light, that darkness not overtake you. And the one walking in the darkness does not know where he is going.
While you have the Light, believe into the Light, that you may become sons of Light. Jesus spoke these things, and going away He was hidden from them.
But though He had done so many miracles before them, they did not believe into Him,
so that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he said, "Lord, who has believed our report? And the arm of the Lord, to whom was it revealed?" Isa. 53:1
Because of this they could not believe, because Isaiah said again,
"He has blinded their eyes" and "has hardened their heart," "that they might not see with the eyes" and "understand with the heart," "and be converted," "and I should heal them." Isa. 6:10
Isaiah said these things when he saw His glory, and spoke about Him.
Still, however, even out of the rulers, many did believe into Him. But because of the Pharisees, they were not confessing, so that they not be put out of the synagogue.
For they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
But Jesus cried out and said, The one believing into Me does not believe into Me, but into the One sending Me.
And the one seeing Me sees the One who sent Me.
I have come as a Light to the world, that everyone who believes into Me may not remain in the darkness.
And if anyone hears My words and does not believe, I do not judge him; for I did not come that I might judge the world, but that I might save the world.
The one who rejects Me and does not receive My words has that judging him: the Word which I spoke, that will judge him in the last Day.
For I did not speak from Myself, but He who sent Me, the Father, He has given Me command, what I should say, and what I should speak.
And I know that His command is everlasting life. Then what things I speak, as the Father has said to Me, so I speak.