To the Chief Musician, A Psalm of David. O LORD, You have searched me and have known me.
You know my sitting down and my rising up; You understand my thought afar off.
You search my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O LORD, You know it altogether.
You have closed me in behind and in front, and laid Your hand on me.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot go up to it.
Where shall I go from Your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from Your presence?
If I go up into Heaven, You are there; if I make my bed in Sheol, behold, You are there.
If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the furthest parts of the sea;
even there shall Your hand lead me, and Your right hand shall hold me.
If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light around me.
Yea, the darkness does not hide from You; but the night shines as the day; as is the darkness, so is the light to You.
For You have possessed my inward parts; You have covered me in my mother's womb.
I will praise You; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Your works are marvelous and my soul knows it very well.
My bones were not hidden from You when I was made in secret and skillfully formed in the lowest parts of the earth.
Your eyes saw my embryo; and in Your book all my members were written, the days they were formed, and not one was among them.
How precious also are Your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them!
If I should count them, they are more than the sand; when I awake, I am still with You.
Surely You will slay the wicked, O God; and bloody men, depart from me.
Who will speak against You maliciously? Your enemies are lifted up with vanity.
O LORD, do I not hate those who hate You? And am I not grieved with those who rise up against You?
I hate them with perfect hatred; I count them my enemies.
Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my thoughts,
and see if any wicked way is in me; and lead me in the way everlasting.