Now after passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And according to Paul's custom, he went in to them, and for three sabbaths he discoursed with them from the scriptures,
explaining and pointing out that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead, and, This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ.
And some of them were persuaded, and joined with Paul and Silas, and of the devout Greeks a great quantity, and of the prominent women not a few.
But the disobedient Jews having taken along certain evil men of the marketplaces, and having gathered a mob, were rioting the city. And having stood by the house of Jason, they sought to bring them out to the populace.
And not having found them, they dragged Jason and some brothers to the city rulers, shouting, The men who have agitated the world, these are present here also,
whom Jason has received. And all these men are acting against the decrees of Caesar, asserting another man to be king, Jesus.
And they disturbed the multitude and the city rulers when they heard these things.
And after taking bond from Jason and the other men, they released them.
And the brothers straightaway sent both Paul and Silas away through the night to Berea, who, when they arrived, went into the synagogue of the Jews.
But these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, who received the word with all willingness, examining the scriptures daily, if it has these things this way.
Indeed therefore many of them believed, also of the prominent Greek women, and of men, not a few.
But when the Jews of Thessalonica also learned that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at Berea, they came there also, agitating the crowds.
But then straightaway the brothers sent Paul away to go as far as to the sea, but both Silas and Timothy remained there.
And those who brought Paul led him as far as Athens. And after taking a command for Silas and Timothy, that they should come to him quickly, they departed.
But while Paul waited for them in Athens, his spirit was aroused within him, seeing the city being completely idolatrous.
Indeed therefore he was discoursing in the synagogue with the Jews, and with those who worship, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened by.
And also some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers encountered him. And some said, Whatever does this babbler want to say? But others, He seems to be a proclaimer of strange deities, because he brought the good news-Jesus and the resurrection.
And having taken him, they brought him to the Areopagus, saying, Can we understand what this new doctrine is, being spoken by thee?
For thou bring some surprising things to our ears. Therefore, we want to know whatever these things aim to be.
Now all the Athenians, and the foreigners who dwell alien there, were at leisure in nothing else, than to tell or to hear something new.
And having stood in the middle of the Areopagus, Paul said, Athenian men, I perceive you as deity-fearing in all things.
For, passing through and examining your religious objects, I also found an altar on which had been engraved, TO AN UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye worship unknowingly, him I proclaim to you.
The God who made the world and all things in it, he, being Lord of heaven and earth, dwells not in temples made with hands,
nor is he served by the hands of men, as needing anything, since he himself gives to all life, and breath, with all things.
And he made from one blood every nation of men to dwell upon all the face of the earth, having determined prescribed times, and the limits of their occupancy,
to search for the Lord, if indeed perhaps they might grope for him and find him, although being not far from each one of us.
For in him we live, and move, and exist, as also some of the performers from you have said, For of him we are also offspring.
Being therefore offspring of God, we ought not think the Divine to be like gold, or silver, or stone handiwork of the skill and thought of man.
Indeed therefore having overlooked the times of ignorance, God now commands for all men everywhere to repent.
Because he appointed a day during which he is going to judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he appointed, having provided assurance to all men because he raised him from the dead.
But when they heard the resurrection of the dead, of course they mocked, but others said, We will hear thee again about this.
And so Paul departed from among them.
But some men, having joined with him, believed, among whom was also Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.