And it happened when Isaac was old and his eyes were dim for seeing, he called his elder son Esau and said to him, My son! And he said to him, Behold me.
And he said, Behold! Now, I am old; I do not know the day of my death.
And now please lift up your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go to the field and hunt game for me.
And make for me delicious things, such as I love, and bring to me, and I will eat; so that my soul may bless you before I die.
And Rebekah heard when Isaac spoke to his son Esau. And Esau went to the field to hunt game, to bring it in.
And Rebekah spoke to her son Jacob, saying, Behold, I heard your father speaking to your brother Esau saying,
Bring game to me and make delicious things that I may eat, that I may bless you before Jehovah before I die.
And now my son hear my voice, that which I tell you.
Go now to the flock and bring me from there two good kids of the goats. And I will make them into delicious things for your father, such as he loves;
and you shall bring it to your father and let him eat, so that he may bless you before his death.
And Jacob said to his mother Rebekah, Behold, my brother Esau is a hairy man, and I a smooth man.
Perhaps my father will feel me, and I shall be like a deceiver in his eyes, and I shall bring a curse on me, and not blessing.
And his mother said to him, Your curse be on me, my son; only listen to my voice and go, take for me.
And he went and took and came to his mother. And his mother made delicious things, such as his father loved.
And Rebekah took the clothing of her elder son Esau, the costly ones which were with her in the house. And she dressed her younger son Jacob;
and she put the skins of the kids of the goats on his hands, and on the smoothness of his neck.
And she put the delicious things and the bread which she had made in the hand of her son Jacob.
And he went in to his father and said, My father. And he said, Behold me. Who are you, my son?
And Jacob said to his father, I am your first born, Esau. I have done as you said to me. Rise up now, sit and eat of my game, so that your soul may bless me.
And Isaac said to his son, How then have you quickly found it , my son? And he said, Because Jehovah your God made it come to me.
And Isaac said to Jacob, Come near now and let me feel you, whether then you are my son Esau, or not.
And Jacob came near to his father Isaac. And he felt him, and he said, The voice is the voice of Jacob and the hands are Esau's hands.
And he did not know him, because his hands were like the hairy hands of his brother Esau. And he blessed him.
And he said, Are you then my son Esau? And he said, I am .
And he said, Bring to me and let me eat of my son's game, so that my soul may bless you. And he came near to him; and he took and he ate. And he came to him, and he drank wine.
And his father Isaac said to him, Now come and kiss me, my son.
And he came near and kissed him. And he smelled the smell of his clothes. And he blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which Jehovah has blessed.
And may God give you of the dew of the heavens, and of the fatness of the earth, and much grain and wine.
May the nations serve you and peoples bow to you; be a ruler to your brothers, and may your mother's sons bow to you, and cursed be those who curse you, and blessed be those who bless you.
And it happened that when Isaac had made an end blessing Jacob, then it came about that Jacob had hardly left from the face of his father Isaac, and his brother Esau came in from his hunting.
And he also made delicious things and came to his father. And he said to his father, Let my father rise and eat from the game of his son, so that your soul may bless me.
And his father Isaac said to him, Who are you? And he said, I am your son, your first born, Esau.
And Isaac was terrified with a very great anxiety. And he said, Who then was the one who hunted game and came to me; and I ate from it all before you came; and I blessed him? Yea, he shall be blessed.
When Esau heard the words of his father he cried out a great and very bitter cry. And he said to his father, Bless me, me also, my father.
And he said, Your brother came with deceit and took your blessing.
And he said, It is because his name is called Jacob, and this twice he took me by the heel; he took my birthright and, behold, now he has taken my blessing. And he said, Have you not reserved a blessing for me?
And Isaac answered and said to Esau, Behold, I have set him over you as a ruler, and I have given him all his brothers for servants; I have girded him with grain and wine. And what then can I do for you, my son?
And Esau said to his father, Is one blessing left to you, my father? Bless me, me also, my father. And Esau lifted up his voice and wept.
And his father Isaac answered and said to him, Behold, your dwelling shall be from the fat of the earth and from the dew of the heavens above;
and you shall live by your sword, and you shall serve your brother; and when it shall be that you are restless, you shall break his yoke from your neck.
And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father had blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are near; then I will kill my brother Jacob.
And the words of her older son Esau were told to Rebekah. And she sent and called her younger son Jacob. And she said to him, Behold! Your brother Esau is going to ease himself on you, to kill you.
And now, my son, listen to my voice, and rise, flee for yourself to my brother Laban, to Haran.
And stay with him some days until your brother's fury turns away,
until your brother's anger turns back from you, and he forgets what you have done to him. And I will send and take you from there. Why should I also be bereaved of two of you in one day?
And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life from the daughters of Heth. If Jacob takes a wife from the daughters of Heth, like these from the daughters of the land, what is my life to me?