And, when you make fall the land by lot for inheritance, you shall offer an offering to the LORD, a holy portion of the land. The length shall be twenty-five thousand cubits long, and the width ten thousand. It shall be holy in all its borders all around.
Of this there shall be five hundred by five hundred cubits for the sanctuary, square all around; and fifty cubits around shall be for its open space.
And from this measure you shall measure the length of twenty-five thousand, and the width of ten thousand. And in it shall be the sanctuary and the most holy place.
It is the holy portion of the land for the priests, it shall be for the ministers of the sanctuary who come near to minister to the LORD. And it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary.
And the twenty-five thousand cubits in length, and the ten thousand in width, shall also be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, for themselves for a possession, twenty rooms.
And you shall give the possession of the city, five thousand cubits wide, and twenty-five thousand long, beside the offering of the holy portion. It shall be for the whole house of Israel.
And a portion shall be for the ruler from here and from there, for the heave offering of the holy place, and of the possession of the city, in front of the heave offering of the holy place, and to the front of the city's possession, from the west side westward and from the east side eastward. And the length shall be alongside one of the portions, from the west border to the east border.
It shall be for a land to him, for a possession in Israel; and My rulers shall never again oppress My people. And they shall give the rest of the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Enough for you, O rulers of Israel. Remove violence and spoil, and do judgment and justice. Take away your demands on My people, says the Lord Jehovah.
You shall have a just balance, a just ephah and a just bath.
The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain the tenth part of a homer, and the ephah the tenth part of a homer. Its measure shall be according to the homer.
And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs: twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh.
This is the heave offering that you shall offer: the sixth of an ephah of a homer of wheat, and the sixth of an ephah of a homer of barley.
And as to the statute of oil, the bath of oil, you shall offer the tenth of a bath out of the cor, which is a homer of ten baths; for ten baths are a homer;
and one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the watered pasture of Israel; for a food offering, and for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make atonement for them, says the Lord Jehovah.
All the people of the land shall be at the heave offering for the ruler in Israel.
And it shall be the ruler's part to give burnt offerings and food offerings and drink offerings, in the feasts, and in the new moons, and in the sabbaths, in all appointed feasts of the house of Israel. He shall prepare the sin offering and the food offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel.
So says the Lord Jehovah: In the first month, in the first of the month, you shall take a perfect bull a son of the herd, and cleanse the sanctuary.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering and put it on the doorposts of the house, and on the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and on the gateposts of the inner court.
And so you shall do on the seventh of the month for each man who goes astray, and for the simple. So you shall atone for the house.
In the first month, on the fourteenth of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days. Unleavened bread shall be eaten.
And on that day the ruler shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a sin offering.
And seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to the LORD, seven bulls and seven rams, perfect ones, daily for the seven days, and a kid of the goats daily for a sin offering.
And he shall prepare a food offering of an ephah for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil for an ephah.
In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, at the feast he shall prepare like these seven days, according to the sin offering, according to the burnt offering, and according to the food offering, and according to the oil.