Now these are the children of the province that went up from the captivity, of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, and came again to Jerusalem and Judah, every one to his city;
Who came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred and seventy and two.
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy and two.
The children of Arah, seven hundred and seventy and five.
The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve.
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty and four.
The children of Zattu, nine hundred and forty and five.
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.
The children of Bani, six hundred and forty and two.
The children of Bebai, six hundred and twenty and three.
The children of Azgad, a thousand two hundred and twenty and two.
The children of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty and six.
The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six.
The children of Adin, four hundred and fifty and four.
The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.
The children of Bezai, three hundred and twenty and three.
The children of Jorah, an hundred and twelve.
The children of Hashum, two hundred and twenty and three.
The children of Gibbar, ninety and five.
The children of Bethlehem, an hundred and twenty and three.
The men of Netophah, fifty and six.
The men of Anathoth, an hundred and twenty and eight.
The children of Azmaveth, forty and two.
The children of Kirjatharim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty and three.
The children of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred and twenty and one.
The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two.
The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred and twenty and three.
The children of Nebo, fifty and two.
The children of Magbish, an hundred and fifty and six.
The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty and four.
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty and five.
The children of Jericho, three hundred and forty and five.
The children of Senaah, three thousand six hundred and thirty.
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy and three.
The children of Immer, a thousand and fifty and two.
The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred and forty and seven.
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy and four.
The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred and twenty and eight.
The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, in all an hundred and thirty and nine.
The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
The children of Keros, the children of Siaha, the children of Padon,
The children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub,
The children of Hagab, the children of Shalmai, the children of Hanan,
The children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah,
The children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam,
The children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai,
The children of Asnah, the children of Mehunim, the children of Nephusim,
The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
The children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Thamah,
The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Peruda,
The children of Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Ami.
All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were three hundred and ninety and two.
And these were they who went up from Telmelah, Telharsa, Cherub, Addan, and Immer: but they could not show their father’s house, and their seed, whether they were of Israel:
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred and fifty and two.
And of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai; who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name:
These sought their family record among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood.
And the Tirshatha said to them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and with Thummim.
The whole congregation togetherwasforty and two thousand three hundred and sixty,
Besides their male and female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred and thirty and seven: and there were  among them two hundred men and women singers.
Their horses were seven hundred and thirty and six; their mules, two hundred and forty and five;
Their camels, four hundred and thirty and five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
And some of the heads of the fathers’ houses, when they came to the house of the LORD which is at Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of God to set it up in its place:
They gave after their ability into the treasury of the work sixty and one thousand drams of gold, and five thousand pounds of silver, and one hundred priests’ garments.
So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinims, dwelt in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.