But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold property,
and kept back from the price, his wife also having joint awareness. And having brought a certain part, he placed it at the apostles' feet.
But Peter said, Ananias, why did Satan fill thy heart for thee to lie to the Holy Spirit, and to keep back from the price of the land?
While it remained, did it not remain to thee? And after it was sold, it was in thine authority. Why is it that thou have placed this matter in thy heart? Thou have not lied to men, but to God.
And Ananias hearing these words, after falling down he expired. And great fear developed in all who heard these things.
And after rising the young men wrapped him, and having carried him out they buried him.
And it came to pass after an interval of three hours, his wife also came in, not knowing that which happened.
And Peter responded to her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much. And she said, Yes, for so much.
But Peter said to her, How is it that it was agreed by you to challenge the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who buried thy husband are at the door, and they will carry thee out.
And immediately she fell down at his feet and expired. And after coming in the young men found her dead, and having carried her out, they buried her by her husband.
And great fear developed in the whole church, and in all who heard these things.
And by the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders happened among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
But of the rest no man dared join them, but the people magnified them.
And more who believe were added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women,
so as to bring the feeble to the thoroughfares, and to place them on cots and mats, so that while coming, the shadow of Peter might at the least overshadow some of them.
And also the populace of the cities round about came together to Jerusalem bringing the feeble, and those tormented by unclean spirits, who were all healed.
But after rising up, the high priest and all those with him (being the sect of the Sadducees) were filled of envy.
And they threw their hands on the apostles, and put them in the public prison.
But an agent of the Lord opened the prison doors by night, and after leading them out, he said,
Go ye, and after standing in the temple, speak to the people all the sayings of this Life.
And having heard, they entered into the temple at early morning, and taught. But the high priest having arrived, and those with him, they called the council together, and all the senate of the sons of Israel. And they sent to the prison for them to be brought.
But the subordinates who came did not find them in the prison. And having returned, they reported,
saying, We found the prison indeed shut in all security, and the guards standing before the doors, but after opening, we found no man inside.
Now when they heard these words, the high priest, and the captain of the temple, and the chief priests, were perplexed about them, whatever this would become.
But a certain man who arrived, reported to them, Behold, the men whom ye put in the prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.
Then after departing, the captain with the subordinates brought them, not with violence, for they feared the people, lest they would be stoned.
And having brought them, they placed them in the council. And the high priest demanded them,
saying, Did we not command by an order for you not to teach in this name? And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem of your doctrine, and intend to bring upon us this man's blood.
And Peter and the apostles having answered, they said, We must obey God rather than men.
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye murdered, having hung on a tree.
God exalted this man with his right hand, a Pathfinder and a Savior to give repentance to Israel and remission of sins.
And we are his witnesses of these things, and also the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those who obey him.
And when they heard this, they were as being split with a saw, and wanted to annihilate them.
But after standing up in the council, a certain Pharisee named Gamaliel, a law teacher, esteemed by all the people, commanded to make the apostles be outside a little while.
And he said to them, Men, Israelites, take heed to yourselves what ye are going to do against these men.
For before these days Theudas rose up saying himself to be somebody, to whom a number of men, about four hundred, bonded themselves, who was killed. And all, as many as were persuaded by him, were dispersed and developed into nothing.
After this man Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the registration, and drew a considerable crowd behind him. That man was also destroyed, and all, as many as were persuaded by him, were scattered.
And now I say to you, keep away from these men, and let them go, because if the project or this work is from men, it will be overthrown,
but if it is from God, ye cannot overthrow it, and perhaps ye may be found to be fighting against God.
And they were persuaded by him. And after summoning the apostles, having beat them, they commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and released them.
Indeed therefore they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were considered worthy to be treated shamefully for the name of Jesus.
And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they ceased not teaching and preaching good news, Jesus, the Christ.