And Moses with the elders of Israel commanded the people saying,—Observe all the commandment which I am commanding you to-day.
So then it shall be in the day when ye shall pass over the Jordan, into the land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee,—that thou shalt rear thee up great stones, and plaster them with plaster;
and shalt write upon them all the words of this law, when thou shalt pass over,—to the end that thou mayest enter upon the land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee a land flowing with milk and honey, as Yahweh the God of thy fathers hath spoken unto thee.
So then it shall be when ye shall pass over the Jordan, that ye shall rear up these stones which I am commanding you to-day in Mount Ebal,—and thou shalt plaster them with plaster.
And thou shalt build there an altar unto Yahweh thy God,—an altar of stones, thou shalt not wield thereupon any tool of iron.
Of whole stones, shalt thou build the altar of Yahweh thy God,—then shalt thou cause to go up thereon ascending-sacrifices, unto Yahweh thy God;
and thou shalt sacrifice peace-offerings and shalt eat there,—and rejoice before Yahweh thy God.
And thou shalt write upon the stones all the words of this law doing it plainly and well.
And Moses and the priests the Levites spake unto all Israel saying,—Keep silence and hear O Israel, This day, hast thou been made a people unto Yahweh thy God.
Thou shalt therefore hearken unto the voice of Yahweh thy God,—and do his commandments and his statutes, which I am commanding thee to-day.
And Moses commanded the people on that day, saying:
These, shall stand to bless the people upon Mount Gerizim, when ye have passed over the Jordan,—Simeon and Levi and Judah, and Issachar and Joseph and Benjamin;
and, these, shall stand by the curse in Mount Ebal,—Reuben Gad and Asher, and Zebulun Dan and Naphtali.
Then shall the Levites respond and say unto every man of Israel with voice uplifted:—
Cursed, be the man that maketh an image—cut or molten—an abomination unto Yahweh the work of the hands of the craftsman and putteth it in a secret place. And all the people shall respond and say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that holdeth in light esteem his father or his mother. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that moveth back the boundary of his neighbour. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that causeth the blind to wander in the way. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that perverteth the right of the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that lieth with his father’s wife, because he hath turned aside his father’s coverlet. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that lieth with any beast. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that lieth with his sister, daughter of his father or daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that lieth with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that smiteth his neighbour secretly. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that taketh a bribe to shed innocent blood. And all the people shall say—Amen.
Cursed, be he that establisheth not the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say—Amen.