If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it, he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.
If the thief is found breaking in, and be smitten so that he dies, there shall be no bloodguiltiness for him.
If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be bloodguiltiness for him. A thief shall make restitution. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.
If the theft is found in his hand alive, whether it be ox, or donkey, or sheep, he shall pay double.
If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall let his beast loose, and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard.
If fire breaks out, and catches in thorns, so that the shocks of grain, or the standing grain, or the field are consumed, he who kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.
If a man shall deliver to his neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it be stolen out of the man's house, if the thief be found, he shall pay double.
If the thief is not found, then the master of the house shall come near to God, to see whether he has not put his hand to his neighbor's goods.
For every matter of trespass, whether it be for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing, of which a man says, This is it, the case of both parties shall come before God. He whom God shall condemn shall pay double to his neighbor.
If a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey, or an ox, or a sheep, or any beast, to keep, and it dies, or be hurt, or driven away, no man seeing it,
the oath of Jehovah shall be between them both, whether he has not put his hand to his neighbor's goods. And the owner of it shall accept it, and he shall not make restitution.
But if it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to the owner of it.
If it is torn in pieces, let him bring it for evidence. He shall not make good that which was torn.
And if a man borrows anything of his neighbor, and it be hurt, or die, the owner of it not being with it, he shall surely make restitution.
If the owner of it is with it, he shall not make it good. If it be a hired thing, it came for its hire.
And if a man entices a virgin who is not betrothed, and lies with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to be his wife.
If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.
Thou shall not allow a sorceress to live.
Whoever lies with a beast shall surely be put to death.
He who sacrifices to any god, except to Jehovah only, shall be utterly destroyed.
And thou shall not wrong a sojourner, neither shall thou oppress him, for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.
If thou afflict them at all, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry,
and my wrath shall grow hot, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall be widows, and your sons fatherless.
If thou lend money to any of my people with thee who is poor, thou shall not be to him as a creditor, neither shall ye lay upon him interest.
If thou at all take thy neighbor's garment to pledge, thou shall restore it to him before the sun goes down,
for that is his only covering. It is his garment for his skin. How shall he sleep? And it shall come to pass, when he cries to me, that I will hear, for I am gracious.
Thou shall not revile God, nor speak ill of a ruler of thy people.
Thou shall not delay to offer from thy harvest, and from the outflow of thy presses. The firstborn of thy sons thou shall give to me.
Likewise thou shall do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep. Seven days it shall be with its dam. On the eighth day thou shall give it me.
And ye shall be holy men to me. Therefore ye shall not eat any flesh that is torn of beasts in the field. Ye shall cast it to the dogs.