And after these things I heard as a great sound of a large multitude in heaven, saying, Praise the Lord, the salvation, and the power, and the glory of our God!
Because true and righteous are his judgments, because he has judged the great whore who ruined the earth by her fornication, and he has avenged the blood of his bondmen from her hand.
And a second time they said, Praise the Lord! And the smoke of her ascended into the ages of the ages.
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying, Truly! Praise the Lord!
And a voice came forth from the throne, saying, Praise ye our God, all his bondmen and those who fear him, the small and the great.
And I heard as the sound of a large multitude, and as the sound of many waters, and as the sound of mighty thunders, saying, Praise the Lord! Because the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns.
We should be glad and rejoice and give the glory to him, because the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has prepared herself.
And it was given her that she clothe herself in fine linen, bright and pure. For the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the sanctified.
And he says to me, Write, Blessed are those who have been called to the supper of the marriage of the Lamb. And he says to me, These are the true sayings of God.
And I fell down before his feet to worship him. And he says to me, See thou not. I am a fellow bondman of thee and thy brothers, those who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
And I saw the heaven opened, and behold a white horse, and he who sits upon it called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he judges and makes war.
And his eyes are a flame of fire, and upon his head are many diadems having names written, and a name written that none knows except he himself,
and clothed in a garment dipped in blood. And his name is called The Word of God.
And the armies in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, pure white.
And a sharp two-edged sword comes out of his mouth, so that he would smite the nations by it. And he will tend them with a rod of iron. And he treads the winepress of the wine of the wrath of the anger of the Almighty God.
And he has on his garment and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
And I saw one agent having stood in the sun, and he cried out in a great voice, saying to all the birds flying in mid-heaven, Come, gather together to the great supper of God,
so that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses and of those who sit upon them, and the flesh of all men, both freemen and bondmen, and both small and great.
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies gathered together to make war against him who sits upon the horse, and against his army.
And the beast was taken, and the false prophet with it who did the signs in its sight by which he led astray those who received the mark of the beast and those who worship its image. The two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with brimstone.
And the others were killed by the sword that comes forth out of his mouth (of him who sits upon the horse), and all the birds were filled from their flesh.