A Psalm of Asaph. Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are of a pure heart.
And as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps nearly made to slip.
For I was jealous of the proud; I looked upon the peace of the wicked.
For there are no pangs to their death; but their body is fat.
They are not in the misery of mortal man; and with men they are not touched.
So pride enchains them; violence covers them like a robe.
Their eyes go out with fatness; they have passed the imaginations of the heart.
They scoff and speak in malice; from on high they speak cruelty.
They set their mouth in the heavens; and their tongues walk through the earth.
Because of this His people shall return here; and waters of a full cup shall be drained by them.
And they say, How does God know? And, Is there knowledge in the Most High?
Behold! These are the ungodly who are always at ease; they increase their riches.
Surely I have purified my heart in vain; and I have washed my hands in innocence.
For all the day long I was touched; and my chastening is at the mornings.
If I say, This is the way I will speak; behold, I would deceive a generation of Your sons.
And although I thought, that I might understand this, it was painful in my eyes,
until I went into the sanctuary of God; now I understood their end.
Surely, You will set their feet in slippery places; You will make them fall into ruin.
How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away with terrors!
Like a dream at the time from dreaming, O Lord, in awaking You will despise their image.
For my heart was in a ferment, and I was pierced in my reins.
And I was brutish and did not know; I was like animals with You.
Yet I was continually with You; You have taken hold of my right hand.
You shall guide me by Your counsel; and afterward You will take me to glory.
Whom have I in Heaven? And I have no desire on earth besides You.
My flesh and my heart waste away; God is the rock of my heart and my portion forever.
For, lo, those who are far from You shall be lost; You have cut off all who go whoring away from You.
As for me, it is good for me to draw near to God; I have made my refuge in the Lord Jehovah, to declare all Your works.