After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is [the sea] of Tiberias.
And a great multitude followed him because they saw his signs which he did in the sick.
And Jesus went up into a mountain, and he sat there with his disciples.
And the passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
Then Jesus lifted up [his] eyes and saw a great company come unto him; he said unto Philip, From where shall we buy bread that these may eat?
But he said this to prove him, for he knew what he would do.
Philip answered him, Two hundred denarius of bread is not sufficient for them, that each one of them may take a little.
One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said unto him,
There is a lad here, who has five barley loaves and two small fishes, but what are they among so many?
Then Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.
And Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples and the disciples to those that were sitting down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they desired.
When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain that nothing be lost.
Therefore they gathered [them] together and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves which were left over from those that had eaten.
Then those men, as they had seen the sign that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth the prophet that was to come into the world.
Jesus therefore knowing that they would come and take him by force to make him king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone.
And when evening was come, his disciples went down unto the sea
and entered into a ship and were crossing the sea toward Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus had not come to them.
And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.
So when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty furlongs, they saw Jesus walking upon the sea and drawing nigh unto the ship, and they were afraid.
But he said unto them, I AM; be not afraid.
Then they willingly received him into the ship, and immediately the ship was at the land where they went.
The day following when the multitude which was on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there except the one in which his disciples had entered and that Jesus had not gone with his disciples into the boat, but [that] his disciples had gone away alone
(but other boats came from Tiberias near unto the place where they ate bread after the Lord had given thanks);
when the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they also entered into the boats and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.
And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when didst thou come here?
Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye have seen the signs, but because ye ate of the loaves and were filled.
Labour not for the food which perishes, but for the food which abides unto eternal life, which the Son of man shall give unto you, for him has God the Father sealed.
Then they said unto him, What shall we do that we might work the works of God?
Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe in him whom he has sent.
They said therefore unto him, What sign showest thou then that we may see and believe thee? what dost thou work?
Our fathers ate manna in the desert, as it is written, He gave them [of] the bread from the heaven to eat.
Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from the heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from the heaven.
For the bread of God is he who descended from heaven and gives life unto the world.
Then said they unto him, Lord, always give us this bread.
And Jesus said unto them, I AM the bread of life; he that comes to me shall never hunger, and he that believes in me shall never thirst.
But I said unto you, That even though ye have seen me, ye do not believe.
All that the Father gives me shall come to me, and he that comes to me I will in no wise cast out.
For I came down from the heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me.
And this is the Father's will who has sent me, that of all whom he has given me I should lose nothing but should raise it up again in the last day.
And this is the will of him that sent me, That every one who sees the Son and believes in him may have eternal life, and I will raise him up in the last day.
The Jews then murmured of him because he said, I AM the bread which descended from the heaven.
And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it then that he says, I descended from heaven?
Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves.
No one can come to me unless the Father who has sent me draws him, and I will raise him up in the last day.
It is written in the prophets, And they shall all be taught of God. Every man therefore that has heard from the Father and has learned comes unto me.
Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is of God, he has seen the Father.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believes in me has eternal life.
I AM the bread of life.
Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness and are dead.
This is the bread which comes down from heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.
I AM the living bread which came down from heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, they shall live for ever; and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
The Jews therefore contended among themselves, saying, How is he able to give us [his] flesh to eat?
Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Unless ye eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, ye shall have no life in you.
Whosoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.
He that eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.
As the living Father has sent me, and I live by the Father, so he that eats me, he shall also live by me.
This is the bread which came down from heaven; not as your fathers ate manna and are dead; he that eats of this bread shall live eternally.
He said these things in the synagogue as he taught in Capernaum.
Many therefore of his disciples when they had heard [this] said, This is a hard word; who can hear it?
But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples murmured at it, said unto them, Does this offend you?
[What] if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?
The Spirit is he that gives life; the flesh profits nothing; the words that I have spoken unto you, [they] are Spirit and [they] are life.
But there are some of you that do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that did not believe and who should betray him.
And he said, Therefore I said unto you that no one can come unto me unless it is given unto them of my Father.
After this, many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him.
Then Jesus said unto the twelve, Will ye also go away?
Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.
And we believe and know that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?
He spoke of Judas Iscariot [the son] of Simon, for it was he that should betray him, being one of the twelve.: