And, late in the week, when it was on the point of dawning into the first of the week, came Mary the Magdalene, and the other Mary, to view the sepulchre.
And lo! a great commotion occurred,—for, a messenger of the Lord, descending out of heaven, and coming near, had rolled away the stone, and was sitting upon it.
Now his appearance, was, as lightning, and, his clothing, white as snow;
and, for fear of him, they who were keeping watch were thrown into a commotion, and became as dead men.
But the messenger, answering, said unto the women—Be not, ye, afraid! For I know that, Jesus the crucified, ye are seeking:
He is not here, for he hath arisen, as he said. Come! see the place where he lay;
And, quickly going, tell his disciples—He hath arisen from the dead, and lo! he is going before you into Galilee;—There, shall ye yourselves see him: Lo! I have told you.
And, departing quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, they ran to bring tidings unto his disciples.
And lo! Jesus, met them, saying—Joy to you! And, they, going forward, held his feet, and worshipped him.
Then, Jesus saith unto them—Be not afraid! Go your way, bear tidings unto my brethren, that they may depart into Galilee; and, there, shall they themselves see me.
Now as they were, going, lo! certain of the guard, went into the city and reported unto the High-priests all the things that had come to pass;
and, being gathered together with the Elders and taking counsel, sufficient pieces of silver, gave they unto the soldiers,—
saying—Say ye, His disciples, coming, by night, stole him, while we were sleeping;
And, if this be reported unto the governor, we, will persuade him, and will make, you, free from care.
And, they, taking the pieces of silver, did as they were instructed. And this account was spread abroad among the Jews…until this [very] day.
And, the eleven disciples, went into Galilee, unto the mountain which, Jesus, had appointed them;
and, seeing him, they worshipped, but, some, doubted.
And Jesus, coming near, spake unto them, saying—All authority, in heaven and on earth, hath been given unto me;
Go ye, therefore, and disciple all the nations, Immersing them into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit,—
Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I myself have commanded you, And lo! I, am, with you, all the days, until the conclusion of the age.