Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath.
And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and walked in all the way of David his father, and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
And it came to pass, in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, that the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of Jehovah, saying,
Go up to Hilkiah the high priest that he may sum the money which is brought into the house of Jehovah, which the keepers of the threshold have gathered of the people.
And let them deliver it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of Jehovah. And let them give it to the workmen who are in the house of Jehovah, to repair the broken parts of the house,
to the carpenters, and to the builders, and to the masons, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the house.
However there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand, for they dealt faithfully.
And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of Jehovah. And Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
And Shaphan the scribe came to the king, and brought the king word again, and said, Thy servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of Jehovah.
And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has delivered to me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.
And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, that he tore his clothes.
And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
Go ye, inquire of Jehovah for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that is found, for great is the wrath of Jehovah that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not hearkened to the words of this book to do according to all that which is written concerning us.
So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah, went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the second quarter), and they conversed with her.
And she said to them, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel: Tell ye the man who sent you to me,
Thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants of it, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read.
Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and it shall not be quenched.
But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, thus shall ye say to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel: As concerning the words which thou have heard,
because thy heart was tender, and thou humbled thyself before Jehovah when thou heard what I spoke against this place, and against the inhabitants of it, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and have torn thy clothes, and wept before me, I also have heard thee, says Jehovah.
Therefore, behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shall be gathered to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought the king word again.