And after the uproar had ceased, calling the disciples and greeting them, Paul left to go into Macedonia.
And passing through those parts, and exhorting them with much speech, he came into Greece.
And spending three months there, there being a plot against him by the Jews, being about to sail into Syria, he proposed to return through Macedonia.
And Sopater of Berea accompanied him into Asia, and Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus as far as Asia.
Going before, these waited for us at Troas.
And after the days of Unleavened Bread, we sailed away from Philippi and came to them at Troas in five days, where we stayed seven days.
And on the first of the week, the disciples having been assembled to break bread, being about to depart on the morrow, Paul reasoned to them. And he continued his speech until midnight.
And there were many lights in the upper room where they were assembled.
And a certain young man named Eutychus was sitting on the window sill, Paul reasoning for a longer time, being overborne by sleep, he fell down from the third floor, and was taken up dead.
And Paul went down and fell on him, and embracing him said, Do not be terrified, for his soul is in him.
And going up, and breaking bread, and tasting, and conversing over a long time, until daybreak, he went out thus.
And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted.
And going ahead onto the ship, we sailed to Assos, there intending to take in Paul; for so he had appointed, intending himself to go on foot.
And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in and came to Mitylene.
And we sailed from there and came the next day across from Chios. And the next day we arrived at Samos, and we stayed at Trogyllium. And the next day we came to Miletus.
For Paul had determined to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not lose time in Asia; for, if it were possible for him, he hastened to be at Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church.
And when they had come to him, he said to them, You know how I was with you at all times, from the first day I arrived in Asia,
serving the Lord with all humility of mind, and many tears and temptations happening to me through the plots of the Jews;
and how I kept back nothing that was profitable, but have shown you and have taught you publicly, and from house to house,
testifying both to the Jews, and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now, behold, I am going bound by the Spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall happen to me there,
except that the Holy Spirit witnesses in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
But none of these things move me, neither do I count my life dear to myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus Christ, to testify fully the gospel of the grace of God.
And now, behold, I know that you all will see my face no more, among whom I went proclaiming the kingdom of God.
Therefore I testify to you on this day that I am pure from the blood of all.
For I did not keep back from declaring to you all the counsel of God.
Therefore take heed to yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to feed the church of God which He has purchased with His own blood.
For I know this, that after my departure grievous wolves shall enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
Also men shall arise from your own selves, speaking perverse things in order to draw disciples away after them.
Therefore watch and remember that for the time of three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day with tears.
And now, brothers, I commend you to God, and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel.
Yea, you yourselves know that these hands have ministered to my needs, and to those who were with me.
I have shown you all things, that working in this way we ought to help the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
And saying these things, kneeling, he prayed with them all.
And there was much weeping of all, and falling on the neck of Paul, they ardently kissed him,
grieving most of all over the word which he had spoken, that they should see his face no more. And they went with him to the ship.