After the Sabbath, as the first day of the week began to dawn, Mary of Magdala and the other Mary had gone to look at the grave,
when suddenly a great earthquake occurred. For an angel of the Lord descended from Heaven, and came and rolled away the stone, and seated himself upon it.
His appearance was as dazzling as lightning, and his clothing was as white as snow;
and, in their terror of him, the men on guard trembled violently and became like dead men.
But the angel, addressing the women, said; “You need not be afraid. I now that it is Jesus, who was crucified, for whom you are looking.
He is not here; for he has risen, as he said he would. Come, and see the place where he was lying;
and then go quickly and say to him disciples ‘He has risen from the dead, and is going before you into Galilee; there you will see him.’ Remember, I have told you.”
On this they left the tomb quickly, in awe and great joy, and ran to tell the news to the disciples.
Suddenly Jesus met them. “Welcome!”  he said. The women went up to him, and clasped his feet, bowing to the ground before him. Then Jesus said to them:
“Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to set out for Galilee, and they shall see me there.”
While they were still on their way, some of the guard came into the city, and reported to the Chief Priests everything that had happened.
So they and the Councillors met and, after holding a consultation, gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,
and told them to say that his disciples came in the night, and stole him while they were asleep;
“And should this matter come before the Governor,” they added, “we will satisfy him, and see that you have nothing to fear.”
So the soldiers took the money, and did as they were instructed. And this story has been current among the Jews from that day to this.
The eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus told them to meet him;
and, when they saw him, they bowed to the ground before him; although some felt doubtful.
Then Jesus came up, and spoke to them thus:   “All authority in heaven and on the earth has been given to me.
Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them into the Faith of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,
and teaching them to lay to heart all the commands that I have given you; and, remember, I myself am with you every day until the close of the age.”