And after six days, Jesus took Peter and James and his brother John, and he led them onto a lofty mountain separately.
And he was transfigured before them. And his face shined brightly like the sun. And his garments were made white like snow.
And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, speaking with him.
And Peter responded by saying to Jesus: “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you are willing, let us make three tabernacles here, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”
And while he was still speaking, behold, a shining cloud overshadowed them. And behold, there was a voice from the cloud, saying: “This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him.”
And the disciples, hearing this, fell prone on their face, and they were very afraid.
And Jesus drew near and touched them. And he said to them, “Rise up and do not be afraid.”
And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, except Jesus alone.
And as they were descending from the mountain, Jesus instructed them, saying, “Tell no one about the vision, until the Son of man has risen from the dead.”
And his disciples questioned him, saying, “Why then do the scribes say that it is necessary for Elijah to arrive first?”
But in response, he said to them: “Elijah, indeed, shall arrive and restore all things.
But I say to you, that Elijah has already arrived, and they did not recognize him, but they did whatever they wanted to him. So also shall the Son of man suffer from them.”
Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist.
And when he had arrived at the multitude, a man approached him, falling to his knees before him, saying: “Lord, take pity on my son, for he is an epileptic, and he suffers harm. For he frequently falls into fire, and often also into water.
And I brought him to your disciples, but they were not able to cure him.”
Then Jesus responded by saying: “What an unbelieving and perverse generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I endure you? Bring him here to me.”
And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon went out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour.
Then the disciples approached Jesus privately and said, “Why were we unable to cast him out?”
Jesus said to them: “Because of your unbelief. Amen I say to you, certainly, if you will have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it shall move. And nothing will be impossible for you.
But this kind is not cast out, except through prayer and fasting.”
And when they were conversing together in Galilee, Jesus said to them: “The Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.
And they will kill him, but he will rise again on the third day.” And they were extremely saddened.
And when they had arrived at Capernaum, those who collected the half shekel approached Peter, and they said to him, “Doesn’t your Teacher pay the half shekel?”
He said, “Yes.” And when he had entered into the house, Jesus went before him, saying: “How does it seem to you, Simon? The kings of the earth, from whom do they receive tribute or the census tax: from their own sons or from foreigners?”
And he said, “From foreigners.” Jesus said to him: “Then the sons are free.
But so that we may not become an obstacle to them: go to the sea, and cast in a hook, and take the first fish that is brought up, and when you have opened its mouth, you will find a shekel. Take it and give it to them, for me and for you.”