AND tearing ourselves away from them, when we had set sail, we came in a direct course to Coos, and the day after to Rhodes, and from thence to Patara.
And finding a ship passing over to Phenice, we went on board and set sail:
and coming in sight of Cyprus, and leaving it on the left, we sailed unto Syria, and landed at Tyre; for there the ship was to discharge her cargo.
And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: and they said to Paul, by the Spirit, that he should not go up unto Jerusalem.
But when we had stayed out those days, we departed, and went on our journey, all of them attending us on our way, with wives and children, till we were out of the city: and kneeling down on the sea shore, we joined in prayer;
and embracing one another, we went on ship-board, and they returned to their own homes,
So completing our voyage, we arrived from Tyre at Ptolemais, and saluting the brethren, tarried with them one day.
And on the morrow we who were Paul’s companions departed with him, and went to Caesarea; and entering into the house of Philip the evangelist (who was one of the seven deacons), we abode with him.
Now this man had four maiden daughters endued with the gift of prophecy.
And as we tarried there several days, there came down a certain prophet from Judea named Agabus.
And coming to us, he took Paul’s girdle, and binding both his own hands and feet together, said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, The man, whose girdle this is, shall the Jews bind in like manner at Jerusalem, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
Then when we heard these things, both we and all who were in the place, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.
But Paul replied, Why do ye thus―weeping and breaking my heart? for I am ready not only to be bound, but to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when he could not be persuaded, we desisted, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
Then after those days, packing up our baggage, we went up to Jerusalem:
and there went also with us some disciples from Caesarea, bringing one Mnason a Cyprian, an ancient disciple, at whose house we were to lodge.
And when we arrived at Jerusalem, the brethren received us with delight.
And on the morrow Paul went in with us unto James: and all the presbyters were present.
And after embracing them, he related every particular of the things which God had done among the Gentiles by his ministry.
And they, when they heard it, glorified the Lord, and said unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many myriads there are of Jews who have believed; and they are all zealots for the law:
And they have been informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews, who are among the Gentiles, apostacy from Moses, saying, That they should not circumcise the children, nor walk after the usual practices.
What then is to be done? The multitude must certainly be assembled; for they will hear that thou art come.
Do this therefore which we say to thee: we have four men, who have a vow upon themselves;
them take with thee, be purified with them, and be at the same expence as they, that they may shave their heads: and all men will know that there is no truth in the things reported of thee, but that thou thyself walkest orderly and observest the law.
Concerning the Gentiles who have believed, we have already written, deciding that they should observe no such thing, except that they should guard themselves from idol sacrifices, and blood, and what is strangled, and from whoredom.
Then Paul took the men, and the following day being purified with them, he entered into the temple, declaring when the days of their purification would be completed, in order whereunto an oblation was to be offered for every one of them.
But as the seven days were now drawing to their period, some Jews from Asia seeing him in the temple, excited all the populace to tumult, and laid hands upon him,
crying out, Men of Israel, help! This is the man, who, by his preaching, sets all men everywhere against the people, and the law, and this place: yea and more still, hath brought Greeks into the temple, and defiled this holy place:
(for they had before seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they imagined that Paul had introduced into the temple.)
And the whole city was in motion, and there was a concourse of people assembled: and laying hands on Paul, they dragged him out of the temple; and immediately the doors were shut.
And as they were attempting to murder him, the report reached the military tribune of the band, that all Jerusalem was in confusion.
Who instantly taking soldiers and centurions ran down unto them: and when they saw the tribune and the soldiers, they left off beating Paul.
Then the tribune approaching him, laid hold on him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains; and asked who he was, and what he had done.
Then some among the multitude bellowed out one thing, and some another: so unable to know the certainty of the case because of the tumult, he ordered him to be brought into the fortress.
But when he was on the stairs, it happened that he was borne up by the soldiers, because of the press of the crowd.
For a multitude of the people followed, crying, Away with him!
And when he was just ready to be carried into the fortress, Paul said to the military tribune, May I be permitted to speak a word to thee? And he said, Dost thou know Greek?
Art not thou certainly that Egyptian who some time since raised a sedition, and led out into the desert four thousand cutthroats?
But Paul replied, I am indeed a Jew, a man of Tarsus, of Cilicia, a citizen of no contemptible city: and, I entreat thee, permit me to speak to the people.
So having his permission, Paul standing on the stairs, waved his hand to the people. And profound silence being obtained, he spake to them in the Hebrew tongue, saying,