Better is the poor who walks in his integrity than he who is perverse in his lips, and is a fool.
Also without knowledge the soul is not good, and he who hurries with his feet sins.
The foolishness of man perverts his way, and his heart frets against the LORD.
Wealth makes many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbor.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and a breather of lies shall not escape.
Many will beg the favor of a ruler, and all are friends to a man who gives gifts.
All the brothers of the poor man hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him? He pursues them with words, yet they are lacking.
He who gets wisdom loves his own soul; he who keeps understanding shall find good.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and one speaking lies shall perish.
Luxury is not becoming for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes.
The judgment of a man puts off his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.
The king's wrath is like the roaring of a lion; but his favor is like dew on the grass.
A foolish son is ruin to his father, and the quarreling of a wife is a never-ending dripping.
Houses and riches are the inheritance of fathers, and a prudent wife is from the LORD.
Laziness throws one into a deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.
He who keeps the commandment keeps his own soul; he who despises His ways shall die.
He who has pity upon the poor lends to the LORD, and He will reward his dealing to him.
Chasten your son while there is hope, and do not set your soul on making him die.
A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment; for if you deliver him yet you must do it again.
Hear advice, and receive instruction, so that you may be wise in your latter end.
There are many purposes in a man's heart, but the counsel of the LORD shall stand.
The charm of a man is his kindness, and a poor man is better than a liar.
The fear of the LORD tends to life, and he rests satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.
A lazy one puts his hand in a dish, and he will not return it to his mouth.
Strike a scorner, and the simple will beware; reprove one who has understanding, and he will understand knowledge.
He who assaults his father and chases away his mother is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.
My son, cease to hear the discipline, only to stray from the words of knowledge.
An ungodly witness scorns judgment, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.
Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools.