When a man takes a wife, and marries her, then it shall be, if she finds no favor in his eyes, because he has found some unseemly thing in her, that he shall write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house.
And when she has departed out of his house, she may go and be another man's.
And if the latter husband dislikes her, and writes her a bill of divorcement, and gives it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies, who took her to be his wife,
her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife after she is defiled. For that is abomination before Jehovah, and thou shall not cause the land to sin, which Jehovah thy God gives thee for an inheritance.
When a man takes a new wife, he shall not go out in the army, neither shall he be charged with any business. He shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he has taken.
No man shall take the mill or the upper millstone to pledge, for he takes life to pledge.
If a man is found stealing any of his brothers of the sons of Israel, and he deals with him harshly, or sells him, then that thief shall die. So shall thou put away the evil from the midst of thee.
Take heed in the disease of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you. As I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do.
Remember what Jehovah thy God did to Miriam by the way as ye came forth out of Egypt.
When thou do lend thy neighbor any manner of loan, thou shall not go into his house to fetch his pledge.
Thou shall stand outside, and the man to whom thou lend shall bring forth the pledge outside to thee.
And if he is a poor man, thou shall not sleep with his pledge.
Thou shall surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his garment, and bless thee. And it shall be righteousness to thee before Jehovah thy God.
Thou shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether he be of thy brothers, or of thy sojourners that are in thy land within thy gates.
Thou shall give him his hire in his day, neither shall the sun go down upon it, for he is poor, and sets his heart upon it, lest he cry against thee to Jehovah, and it be sin to thee.
The fathers shall not be put to death for the sons, neither shall the sons be put to death for the fathers. Every man shall be put to death for his own sin.
Thou shall not distort the justice due to the sojourner, or to the fatherless, nor take the widow's raiment to pledge,
but thou shall remember that thou were a bondman in Egypt, and Jehovah thy God redeemed thee from there. Therefore I command thee to do this thing.
When thou reap thy harvest in thy field, and have forgotten a sheaf in the field, thou shall not go again to fetch it. It shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow, that Jehovah thy God may bless thee in all the work of thy hands.
When thou beat thine olive tree, thou shall not go over the boughs again. It shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
When thou gather of thy vineyard, thou shall not glean it behind thee. It shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
And thou shall remember that thou were a bondman in the land of Egypt. Therefore I command thee to do this thing.