And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel that they bring unto thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamps to burn continually.
Outside the veil of the testimony, in the tabernacle of the testimony, shall Aaron order it from the evening unto the morning before the LORD continually; [it shall be] a perpetual statute for [all] your ages.
He shall order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before the LORD continually.
And thou shalt take fine flour and bake twelve cakes thereof; each cake shall be of two-tenth deals.
And thou shalt set them in two orders, six [in each] order, upon the clean table before the LORD.
And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon [each] order, that it may be on the bread for an aroma and incense unto the LORD.
Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the LORD continually: everlasting covenant of the sons of Israel.
And it shall belong to Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat it in the holy place, for it [is] most holy unto him of the offerings of the LORD on fire, by a perpetual statute.
In that season the son of an Israelite woman, whose father [was] an Egyptian, went out among the sons of Israel; and this son of the Israelite [woman] and a man of Israel strove together in the camp;
and the Israelite woman's son pronounced the Name and cursed; and they brought him unto Moses. And his mother's name [was] Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
And they put him in ward that the mind of the LORD might be showed them.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Bring forth the one that has blasphemed outside the camp and let all that heard [him] lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him.
And thou shalt speak unto the sons of Israel, saying, The man that speaks evil of his God shall bear his sin.
And he that pronounces the name of the LORD shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him; the same with the stranger as with the natural, if he pronounces the Name, he shall be put to death.
Likewise he that kills any man shall surely be put to death.
And he that kills an animal shall make it good: animal for animal.
And if a man causes a blemish in his neighbour; as he has done, so shall it be done to him;
breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: as he has caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be done to him [again].
He that kills an animal shall restore it, but he that kills a man shall be put to death.
Ye shall have one manner of law: as for the stranger, so shall it be for the natural; for I [am] the LORD your God.
And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel that they should bring forth the one that had blasphemed out of the camp and stone him with stones. And the sons of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.: