And, calling near his twelve disciples, he gave them authority over impure spirits,—so as to be casting them out, and curing every disease and every infirmity.
Now, the twelve apostles’ names, are these:—first Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother,—and James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother;
Philip, and Bartholomew,—Thomas, and Matthew, the tax-collector; James, the son of Alphaeus, and Thadaeus;
Simon, the zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who also delivered him up.
These twelve, Jesus sent forth, charging them, saying:—Into any way to the nations, do not depart,—and, into any city of Samaritans, do not enter;
But be going, rather, unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And, as ye go, proclaim, saying, The kingdom of the heavens hath drawn near!
Be curing, the sick, raising, the dead,—cleansing, lepers, casting out, demons: freely, ye have, received, freely, give.
Ye may procure—neither gold, nor silver, nor copper, for your belts,—
neither satchel for journey, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor staff; for, worthy, is the labourer, of his maintenance.
And, into whatsoever city or village ye enter, search out who in it is, worthy, and, there, abide, till ye go forth.
And, as ye enter the house, salute it;
And, if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it, but, if it be not worthy, let your peace, unto you, return.
And, whosoever shall neither welcome you, nor hear your words, as ye go forth outside that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet:
Verily, I say unto you,—More tolerable, will it be, for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for, that, city!
Lo! I, send you forth as sheep amidst wolves; become ye therefore—prudent, as serpents, and simple, as doves.
But beware of men; for they will deliver you up into high-councils, and, in their synagogues, will they scourge you,—
And, before both governor and kings, shall ye be brought, for my sake—for a witness to them and the nations.
And, when they deliver you up, be not anxious how or what ye shall speak,—for it shall be given you in that hour what ye shall speak;
For it is not, ye, who are speaking, but, the Spirit of your Father, that is speaking in you.
And, brother, will deliver up, brother, unto death, and, father, child,—and, children, will rise up, against parents, and will put them to death.
And ye will be hated by all, because of my name,—but, he that endureth throughout, the same, shall be saved.
And, when they persecute you in this city, flee into another,—for, verily, I say unto you, in nowise shall ye finish the cities of Israel, till, he Son of Man, come.
A, disciple, is not above, the teacher, nor, a servant, above, his lord:
Sufficient for the disciple, that he become, as his teacher, and, the servant, as, his lord. If, the master of the house, Beelzebul, they called, how much more, the men of his house!
Then do not fear them,—for, nothing hath been covered, which shall not be, uncovered, and, hidden, which shall not be, made known.
What I am saying to you in the darkness, tell ye in the light,—and, what [whispered] into the ear ye are hearing, proclaim ye on the housetops.
And be not in fear, by reason of them that are killing the body,—and, the soul, are not able to kill. But fear, rather, him who is able, both soul and body, to destroy in gehenna!
Are not, two sparrows, for a farthing, sold? And, one from among them, shall not fall upon the ground, without your Father;
But, even the hairs of, your, head, have all been numbered.
Then be not in fear—than many sparrows, better are, ye!
Every one therefore who shall confess me before men, I also, will confess, him, before my Father who is in the heavens;
But, whoever shall deny me before men, I also, will deny, him, before my Father who is in the heavens.
Do not think, that I came to thrust peace upon the earth,—I came not to thrust, peace, but, a sword;
For I came to set at variance—a man, against, his father, and, a daughter, against, her mother, and, a bride, against, her mother-in-law;
And, a man foes, are, they of his own house.
He that loveth father or mother above me, is not, worthy, of me,—and, he that loveth son or daughter above me, is not, worthy, of me;
And, he that doth not take his cross and follow after me, is not, worthy, of me.
He that hath found his life, shall lose it,—and, he that hath lost his life, for my sake, shall find it.
He that giveth welcome unto you, unto me, giveth welcome, and, he that, unto me, giveth welcome, giveth welcome—unto him that sent me forth.
He that giveth welcome unto a prophet, in the name of a prophet, the reward of a prophet, shall receive; and, he that giveth welcome unto a righteous man, in the name of a righteous man, the reward of a righteous man, shall receive;—
And, whosoever shall give to drink—unto one of these little ones—a cup of cold water only, in the name of a disciple, Verily, I say unto you, in nowise, shall lose his reward!