For this cause, it behoveth us, with unwonted firmness, to be holding fast unto the things that have been heard, lest, at any time, we drift away.
For, if the word through messengers spoken became firm, and, every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense,
how shall, we, escape, if, so great a salvation as this, we have neglected,—which, indeed, having received, a beginning, of being spoken through the Lord, by them who heard, unto us was confirmed,
God, jointly witnessing also, both with signs and wonders and manifold mighty works, and with distributions of Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
For, not unto messengers, hath he subjected the coming habitable earth of which we are speaking;
But one somewhere hath borne witness, saying—What is man, that thou shouldst make mention of him? Or the son of man, that thou shouldst put him in charge?
Thou hast made him less, some little, than messengers, With glory and honour, hast thou crowned him,—[And hast set him over the works of thy hands];
All things, hast thou subjected beneath his feet. For, in subjecting, [to him] the all things, nothing, left he, to him unsubjected; But now, not yet, do we see, to him, the all things subjected;—
But, Jesus, made some little less than messengers, we do behold: by reason of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour, to the end that, by favour of God, in behalf of every one, he might taste of death.
For it was becoming in him—For the sake of whom are the all things, and by means of whom are the all things,—when, many sons, unto glory, he would lead, The Princely Leader of their salvation, through sufferings, to make perfect.
For, both he that maketh holy, and they who are being made holy, are, all, of One; For which cause, he is not ashamed to be calling them, brethren,
saying—I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of an assembly, will I sing praise unto thee;
and again—I, will be confident upon him; and again—Lo! I, and the children which, unto me, God, hath given.
Seeing therefore the children have received a fellowship of blood and flesh, he also, in like manner, took partnership in the same,—in order that, through death,—he might paralyse him that held the dominion of death, that is, the Adversary,—
And might release these—as many as, by fear of death, were all their lifetime liable, to bondage.
For, not surely of messengers, is he laying hold, but, of Abraham’s seed, he is laying hold.
Whence he was obliged, in every way, unto the brethren, to be made like, that he might become a merciful and faithful high-priest, in the things pertaining unto God,—for the making of propitiation for the sins of the people.
For, in that, he, suffered when tested, he is able, unto them who are being tested, to give succour.