And, behold, a man of God had come from Judah to Bethel, by the word of Jehovah, and Jeroboam was standing by the altar to burn incense.
And he cried against the altar, by the word of Jehovah, and said, Altar! Altar! So says Jehovah, Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, his name Josiah, and he shall sacrifice on you the priests of the high places who are burning incense on you, and they shall burn the bones of man on you.
And on that day he gave a sign, saying, This is the sign that Jehovah has spoken, Behold, the altar is torn, and the ashes that are on it poured out.
And it happened when king Jeroboam heard the saying of the man of God which he had cried against the altar in Bethel, he put out his hand from the altar, saying, Seize him. And his hand which he put out against him withered, and he was not able to bring it back to him.
And the altar was torn, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign that the man of God had given by the word of Jehovah.
And the king answered and said to the man of God, Please entreat the face of Jehovah your God, and pray for me, and my hand shall come back to me. And the man of God entreated the face of Jehovah, and the hand of the king came back to him, and it was as at the beginning.
And the king spoke to the man of God, Come home with me, and refresh yourself, and I will give you a gift.
And the man of God said to the king, If you would give me the half of your house, I would not go in with you, nor will I eat bread, nor will I drink water in this place.
For so He commanded me by the word of Jehovah, saying, You shall not eat bread nor drink water, nor turn back in the way that you have come.
And he went on another way, and did not turn back in the way in which he came into Bethel.
And a certain aged prophet was living in Bethel, and his son came and told him all the deeds that the man of God had done that day in Bethel, the words that he had spoken to the king; yea, they told them to their father.
And their father said to them, Where is this man , what way did he go? And his sons saw the way that the man of God from Judah had gone.
And he said to his sons, Saddle the ass for me. And they saddled the ass for him, and he rode on it,
and went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak tree. And he said to him, are you the man of God who has come from Judah? And he said, I am .
Then he said to him, Come home with me and eat bread.
And he said, I am not able to go back with you, and to go in with you, nor may I eat bread or drink water with you in this place;
for a word came to me by the word of Jehovah, You shall not eat bread nor drink water there you shall not turn back to go in the way in which you came.
And he said to him, I also am a prophet like yourself, and an angel spoke to me by the word of Jehovah, saying, Bring him back with you into your house, and he shall eat bread and water (he lied to him).
And he turned back with him and ate bread in his house and drank water.
And it happened as they were sitting at the table, and a word of Jehovah came to the prophet who brought him back;
and he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, So says Jehovah, Because you have resisted the mouth of Jehovah, and have not kept the command that Jehovah your God charged you,
and turned back and ate bread and drank water in the place of which He said to you, You shall not eat bread nor drink water; your carcass shall not come to the burying place of your fathers.
And after he ate bread and after he drank, it happened that he saddled the ass for him, for the prophet whom he had brought back.
And he left, and a lion found him in the way and killed him; and his carcass was thrown down in the way, and the ass was standing near it, and the lion was standing near the carcass.
And behold, men were passing by and saw the carcass thrown in the way, and the lion standing near the carcass; and they came and reported it in the city in which the old prophet lived.
And the prophet who brought him back out of the way heard and said, It is the man of God who provoked the mouth of Jehovah, and Jehovah gave him to the lion, and it tore him apart and killed him, according to the word of Jehovah that He spoke to him.
And he spoke to his sons, saying, Saddle the ass for me. And they saddled.
And he went and found the carcass thrown down in the way, and the ass and the lion were standing near the carcass; the lion had not eaten the carcass nor had he torn apart the ass.
And the prophet took up the carcass of the man of God and placed it on the ass, and brought it back; and the old prophet came into the city to mourn and to bury him.
And he placed his carcass in his own grave, and they mourned for him, O my brother!
And it happened, after he buried him, that he spoke to his sons, saying, At my death, you shall bury me in the burying place in which the man of God is buried; place my bones beside his bones;
for the word that he cried by the word of Jehovah concerning the altar in Bethel, and concerning all the houses of the high places that are in the cities of Samaria, shall surely occur.
After this thing Jeroboam did not turn from his evil way, but turned again and made from the lowest of the people priests of high places; he who desired, he consecrated him, and he became one of the priests of the high places.
And in this thing is the sin of the house of Jeroboam, even to blot it from off the face of the earth.