And all Israel gathered to David, to Hebron, saying, Behold, we are your bone and your flesh.
And also in time past, even when Saul was king, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel. And the LORD your God said to you, You shall feed My people Israel, and you shall be ruler over My people Israel.
And all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron. And David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD. And they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD by Samuel.
And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus, where the Jebusites were the people of the land.
And the people of Jebus said to David, You shall not come in here. But David took the stronghold of Zion, which is the city of David.
And David said, Whoever strikes the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first and was chief.
And David lived in the stronghold. Therefore they called it the city of David.
And he built the city all around, even from Millo all around. And Joab repaired the rest of the city.
And David became greater and greater, for the LORD of hosts was with him.
And these were the chief of the mighty men whom David had, making themselves strong with him in his kingdom, with all Israel to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.
And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam, a Hachmonite, the chief of the captains. He lifted up his spear against three hundred, who were killed by him at one time.
And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, he was one of the three mighty ones.
He was with David at Pas-dammim. And there the Philistines were gathered together to battle and a portion of the field was full of barley. And the people fled from before the Philistines.
And they set themselves in the midst of that place, and delivered it, and killed the Philistines. And the LORD saved them by a great deliverance.
And three of the mighty captains went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam. And the Philistine army camped in the Valley of the Giants.
And David was then in the stronghold, and the Philistines garrison was then at Bethlehem.
And David longed and said, Oh that someone would give me drink from the water of the well of Bethlehem, which was by the gate!
And the three broke through the Philistine army and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David. But David would not drink it, but poured it out to the LORD.
And he said, May my God forbid me to do this thing. Shall I drink the blood of these men who have put their lives in danger? For they brought it with their lives. And he was not willing to drink it. These three mighty ones did these things.
And Abishai the brother of Joab was chief of the three. For lifting up his spear against three hundred, he killed them, and had a name among the three.
Of the three, he was more honorable than the two for he was their captain. However, he did not attain the first three.
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a mighty man of Kabzeel, had done many acts. He killed two lion-like men of Moab. He also went down and killed a lion in a pit on a snowy day.
And he killed an Egyptian, a man of stature, five cubits high. And in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a weaver's beam. And he went down to him with a staff and wrenched the spear out of the Egyptians hand, and killed him with his own spear.
These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and had the name among the three mighty ones.
Behold, he was honorable among the thirty, but did not attain the first three. And David set him over his court.
And the mighty ones of the army: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,
Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,
Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Ahiezer the Anathothite,
Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite,
Ithai a son of Ribai of Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,
Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite,
Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,
Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
Hezro of Carmel, Naarai the son of Ezbai,
Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Haggeri,
Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,
Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a captain of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,
Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,
Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons of Hothan the Aroerite,
Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
Eliel, and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.