The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivers from death.
The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casts away the substance of the wicked.
He becomes poor that deals with a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent makes rich.
He that gathers in summer is a wise son: but he that sleeps in harvest is a son that causes shame.
Blessings are on the head of the just: but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot.
The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool shall fall.
He that walks uprightly walks surely: but he that perverts his ways shall be known.
He that winks with the eye causes sorrow: but a prating fool shall fall.
The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
Hatred stirs up strifes: but love covers all sins.
In the lips of him that has understanding wisdom is found: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.
Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction.
The rich man’s wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the poor is their poverty.
The labor of the righteous tends to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin.
He is in the way of life that keeps instruction: but he that refuses reproof errs.
He that hides hatred with lying lips, and he that utters a slander, is a fool.
In the multitude of words there wants not sin: but he that refrains his lips is wise.
The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the wicked is little worth.
The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom.
The blessing of the LORD, it makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it.
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding has wisdom.
The fear of the wicked, it shall come on him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
As the whirlwind passes, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.
The fear of the LORD prolongs days: but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.
The way of the LORD is strength to the upright: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity.
The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth.
The mouth of the just brings forth wisdom: but the fraudulent tongue shall be cut out.
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaks frowardness.