But late in the week, at the dawning into the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb.
And behold, a great earthquake occurred! For coming down from Heaven, and coming up, an angel of the Lord rolled back the stone from the door and was sitting on it.
His countenance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow.
And the keepers shook for fear of him and became like dead men.
And the angel answered and said to the women, Do not fear, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified.
He is not here, for He has risen, as He said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.
And go quickly and tell His disciples that He has risen from the dead. And, behold, He goes before you into Galilee. There you shall see Him. Lo, I have told you.
And they quickly departed from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring His disciples word.
But as they were going to report to His disciples, behold, Jesus also met them, saying, Hail! And they came and held Him by the feet and worshiped Him.
Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid; go tell My brothers that they should go into Galilee, and there they will see Me.
And as they were going, behold, some of the guard came into the city and declared all the things that were done to the chief priests.
And being assembled with the elders, and taking counsel, they gave enough silver to the soldiers,
saying, Say that His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we slept.
And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and make you free from care.
And taking the silver, they did as they were taught. And this saying was spread among the Jews until today.
And the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had appointed them.
And when they saw Him, they worshiped Him. But some doubted.
And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority is given to Me in Heaven and in earth.
Therefore go and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all things, whatever I commanded you. And, behold, I am with you all the days until the end of the world.