O give thanks unto יהוה; for he is good: because his mercy endureth for ever.
Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
Let them now that fear יהוה say, that his mercy endureth for ever.
I called upon YAH in distress: YAH answered me, and set me in a large place.
יהוה is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?
יהוה taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me.
It is better to trust in יהוה than to put confidence in man.
It is better to trust in יהוה than to put confidence in princes.
All nations compassed me about: but in the name of יהוה will I destroy them.
They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of יהוה I will destroy them.
They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of יהוה I will destroy them.
Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but יהוה helped me.
YAH is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of יהוה doeth valiantly.
The right hand of יהוה is exalted: the right hand of יהוה doeth valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of YAH.
YAH hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise יהוה:
This gate of יהוה, into which the righteous shall enter.
I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.
The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner.
This is יהוה's doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.
This is the day which יהוה hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
Save now, I beseech thee, O יהוה: O יהוה, I beseech thee, send now prosperity.
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of יהוה: we have blessed you out of the house of יהוה.
El is יהוה, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.
Thou art my El, and I will praise thee: thou art my Elohim, I will exalt thee.
O give thanks unto יהוה; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.