And as they spoke to the people, the priests, and the temple commander, and the Sadducees came on them,
being grieved that they taught the people, even to announce through Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
And they laid hands on them and put them under guard until the next day, for it was already evening.
But many of those who heard the Word believed; and the number of the men was about five thousand.
And it happened on the next day that their rulers and elders and scribes, gathered to Jerusalem,
and Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest.
And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name have you done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders of Israel,
if we are examined today on a good work for an infirm man, by what this one has been healed,
be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, in this name does this man stand before you whole.
This is the Stone which you builders have counted worthless, and He has become the Head of the Corner.
And there is salvation in no other One; for there is no other name under Heaven given among men by which we must be saved.
But seeing the boldness of Peter and John, and perceiving that they were unlearned and uneducated men, they marveled. And they recognized them, that they had been with Jesus.
And beholding the man who was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.
And when they had commanded them to go aside out of the sanhedrin, they conferred among themselves,
saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable miracle has been done by them is plain to all those dwelling in Jerusalem. And we cannot deny it.
But, so that it spread no further among the people, let us strictly threaten them, that they speak to no man in this name from now on.
And they called them and commanded them not to speak at all, nor to teach in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right before God to listen to you more than to God, you judge.
For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way as to how they might punish them, because of the people. For all glorified God for that which was done.
For the man on whom this miracle of healing occurred was more than forty years old.
And being let go, they went to their own company and reported what the chief priests and elders had said to them.
And having heard, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, You are the God who made the heaven and earth, and the sea, and all that is in them;
who by the mouth of Your servant David has said, "Why did the nations rage and the people imagine vain things?
The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against His Christ."
For truly, against Your holy child Jesus, whom You have anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the nations, and the people of Israel, were gathered together
in order to do whatever Your hand and Your counsel determined before to be done.
And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant to Your servants that with all boldness they may speak Your Word,
by stretching forth of Your hand for healing, and miracles, and wonders may be done by the name of Your holy child Jesus.
And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the Word of God with boldness.
And the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul. And not one said that any of the things which he possessed was his own. But they had all things common.
And the apostles gave witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus with great power. And great grace was on them all.
For neither was anyone needy among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the prices of the things that were sold,
and they laid them down at the apostles' feet. And distribution was made to every man according as he had need.
And Joses, who was surnamed Barnabas by the apostles (which is, being translated, The son of consolation), a Levite, a Cypriot by race,
a field being his, selling it, he bore the proceeds and placed them at the apostles' feet.