Now, when it was determined that we should sail for Italy, they proceeded to deliver Paul, and certain other prisoners, unto a centurion by name Julius, of an Augustan band.
And, going on board a ship of Adramittium, about to sail unto the places along the coast of Asia, we put to sea, there being with us, Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica;
and, on the next day, we put into Zidon,—and Julius, treating Paul, kindly, gave him leave to go unto his friends and refresh himself;
and, from thence putting out to sea, we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary;
and, sailing across the sea which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came down to Myra, a city of Lycia.
And the centurion, there, finding a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy, put us therein.
And, for a good many days sailing slowly, and getting with difficulty over against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us to get on, we sailed under the lee of Crete, over against Salmone;
and, with difficulty coasting it, we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near to which was the city of Lasea.
And, when a considerable time had passed, and sailing was already dangerous, because, even the Fast, had already gone by, Paul began to advise,
saying to them—Sirs! I perceive that, with damage and great loss, not only of the cargo and of the ship, but even of our persons, shall the voyage certainly be attended.
But, the centurion, by the master, and by the shipowner, was more persuaded than by the things which, by Paul, were spoken.
And, the harbour being, incommodious, to winter in, the more part, advised to put to sea from thence, if by any means they might be able to reach Phoenix, to winter, [which was] a harbour of Crete, looking north-east and south-east.
And, a south wind blowing softly, supposing they had secured their purpose, weighing anchor, they began to sail close in shore along Crete.
But, after no long time, there beat down from it a tempestuous wind, called Euraquilo,—
and, the ship being caught and we not being able to bring her head to the wind, we let her go, and were borne along.
And, running under the lee, of some small island, called Cauda, we were able, with difficulty, to make ourselves masters of the boat,—
which, hoisting up, they began to use, helps, under-girding the ship; and, fearing lest, on the sand-bank of Africa, they should run aground, lowering the gear, so, were they borne along.
But, we being exceedingly tempest-tossed, on the next day, they began to throw [cargo] overboard;
and, on the third day, with their own hands, the tackling of the ship, they cast away.
And, neither, sun nor stars, appearing for many days, and, no small tempest, lying upon us, in the end, all hope that we should be saved, began to be taken from us.
But, when they had been, long without food, then, Paul, standing in the midst of them, said—Ye ought, indeed, Sir! yielding to me, not to have sailed away from Crete, to get this damage and loss. …
And, now, I recommend you to be of good courage; for, loss of life, shall there be, none at all, from among you,—only the ship.
For there stood by me this night, belonging unto the God whose I am, unto whom also I am doing divine service, a messenger,
saying—Be not afraid, Paul! for, before Caesar, must thou needs stand. And lo! God hath granted to thee as a favour, all them who are sailing with thee.
Wherefore, be of good courage, Sirs; for I believe in God—that, so, it shall be, according as it hath been told me.
Upon a certain island, however, must we needs be wrecked.
And, when, the fourteenth night, had come, and we were being driven to and fro in the Adriatic, about midnight, the sailors suspected that some country was, nearing, them;
and, sounding, they found twenty fathoms,—and, going a little further, and again sounding, they found fifteen fathoms.
And, fearing lest haply, on rocky places, we should be wrecked, out of stern, cast they four anchors,—and began praying that day might dawn.
But, when, the sailors, were seeking to flee out of the ship, and had lowered the boat into the sea, by pretext, as though out of the prow they had been about to reach anchors,
Paul said unto the centurion, and unto the soldiers—Except, these, abide in the ship, ye yourselves, cannot be saved!
Then, the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat, and let her fall off.
And, until day was about to dawn, Paul continued to beseech one and all to take some food, saying—This day is, the fourteenth day, that, suspense, fasting, ye are completing,—having helped yourselves, to nothing.
Wherefore, I beseech you to take some food,—for, this, lays a foundation for your safety; for, of no one of you, shall a hair of the head perish.
And, having said these things, and taken a loaf, he gave thanks unto God before all, and, breaking it, began to eat.
And, all becoming, of good cheer, they also, helped themselves to food.
Now we were, in the ship, in all, about seventy-six souls.
And, when they were satisfied with food, they began lightening the ship, casting out the wheat into the sea.
And, when day came, they could not recognise, the land; but perceived, a certain bay, having a beach,—upon which they were minded, if they could, safely to bring the ship.
And, casting off the anchors, they let them go into the sea,—at the same time, loosening the lashings of the rudders, and, hoisting up the foresail to the wind, they made for the beach.
But, falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground; and, the foreship sticking fast, remained immoveable, while, the stern, began to break up, from the violence [of the waves] .
Now, the soldiers counsel, turned out to be, that they should kill, the prisoners, lest any one should swim out and escape;
but, the centurion, being minded to bring Paul safely through, hindered them of their purpose, and ordered such as were able to swim, to cast themselves overboard and, get first to the land,—
and, the rest, some, on planks, and, some, on other things from the ship, …and, so, it came to pass, that, all, were brought safely through, on to the land.