A prayer of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed and pours out his complaint before the LORD. Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come to You.
Hide not Your face from me in the day when I am in trouble; bow down Your ear to me; in the day I call, answer me quickly.
For my days go up like smoke, and my bones glow like a firebrand.
My heart is stricken, and dried like grass, so that I forget to eat my bread.
Because of the voice of my groaning, my bones hold fast to my skin.
I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I am like an owl of the desert.
I watch, and am as a sparrow alone on the house top.
My enemies curse me all the day; and they who are mad against me are sworn against me.
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and have mixed my drink with weeping,
because of Your anger and Your wrath; for You have lifted me up and cast me down.
My days are like a shadow stretched out; and I wither like grass.
But You, O LORD, shall endure forever; and Your memory to all generations.
You shall arise, and have mercy on Zion; for the time to pity her, yea, the set time, has come.
For Your servants take pleasure in its stones, and pity its dust.
So the nations shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth Your glory.
When the LORD shall build up Zion, He shall appear in His glory.
He will turn to the prayer of the forsaken and not despise their prayer.
This shall be written for the generation to come; and the people who shall be created shall praise the LORD.
For He has looked down from the height of His sanctuary; from Heaven the LORD beheld the earth;
to hear the groaning of the prisoner, to set free the sons of death;
to declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and His praise in Jerusalem;
when the peoples and the kingdoms have gathered together to serve the LORD.
He weakened my strength in the way; He shortened my days.
I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days; Your years are through the generation of generations.
Of old You have laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the work of Your hands.
They shall perish, but You shall endure; yea, all of them shall become old like a garment; like a robe You shall change them, and they shall be changed;
but You are He, and Your years shall have no end.
The sons of Your servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before You.