A Psalme of Salomon. Give thy iudgements to the King, O God, and thy righteousnesse to the Kings sonne.
Then shall he iudge thy people in righteousnesse, and thy poore with equitie.
The mountaines and the hilles shall bring peace to the people by iustice.
He shall iudge the poore of the people: he shall saue the children of the needie, and shall subdue the oppressor.
They shall feare thee as long as the sunne and moone endureth, from generatio to generation.
He shall come downe like the rayne vpon the mowen grasse, and as the showres that water the earth.
In his dayes shall the righteous florish, and abundance of peace shalbe so long as the moone endureth.
His dominion shall be also from sea to sea, and from the Riuer vnto the endes of the land.
They that dwell in ye wildernes, shall kneele before him, and his enemies shall licke the dust.
The Kings of Tarshish and of the yles shall bring presents: the Kings of Sheba and Seba shall bring giftes.
Yea, all Kings shall worship him: all nations shall serue him.
For he shall deliuer the poore when he cryeth: the needie also, and him that hath no helper.
He shalbe mercifull to the poore and needie, and shall preserue the soules of the poore.
He shall redeeme their soules from deceite and violence, and deare shall their blood be in his sight.
Yea, he shall liue, and vnto him shall they giue of the golde of Sheba: they shall also pray for him continually, and dayly blesse him.
An handfull of corne shall be sowen in the earth, euen in the toppe of the mountaines, and the fruite thereof shall shake like the trees of Lebanon: and the children shall florish out of the citie like the grasse of the earth.
His name shall be for euer: his name shall indure as long as the sunne: all nations shall blesse him, and be blessed in him.
Blessed be the Lord God, euen the God of Israel, which onely doeth wonderous things.
And blessed be his glorious Name for euer: and let all the earth be filled with his glorie. So be it, euen so be it. HERE END THE prayers of Dauid, the sonne of Ishai.
