So says the LORD: For three transgressions of Moab, yea for four, I will not turn away from it; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime.
But I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth. And Moab shall die with great noise, with shouting, with the sound of a trumpet.
And I will cut off the judge from its midst, and will kill all its rulers with him, says the LORD.
So says the LORD: For three transgressions of Judah, yea for four, I will not turn away from it; because they have despised the laws of the LORD, and have not kept His commandments. And their lies after which their fathers walked led them astray.
But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
So says the LORD: For three transgressions of Israel, yea for four, I will not turn away from it; because they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of sandals;
panting after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turning aside the way of the meek. And a man and his father will go in to the same woman, to defile My holy name.
And they will stretch beside every altar on garments taken in pledge, and they drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their god.
Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above and his roots from below.
Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt and led you forty years through the wilderness to possess the land of the Amorite.
And I raised up prophets from your sons and Nazarites from your young men. Is it not even so, O sons of Israel? says the LORD.
But you gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Do not prophesy.
Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart full of sheaves is pressed.
And refuge shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his power, nor shall the mighty deliver his life;
nor shall he who handles the bow stand. And the swift-footed shall not save; and the horse rider shall not save his life.
And the stout-hearted among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, says the LORD.