My little children, I write these things to you, that you may not sin: and yet, if any one sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
And he is the expiation for our sins: not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world.
And by this we know that we do know him, if we keep his commandments.
He that says, I know him, and keeps not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.
But whoever keeps his word, in him truly is the love of God perfected: by this we know that we are in him.
He that says, he abides in him, ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked.
Beloved, I write no new commandment to you, but an old commandment, which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word, which you have heard from the beginning.
Again, a new commandment I do write to you, which is true as it respects him and you; because the darkness is past, and the true light now shines.
He that says he is in the light, and hates his brother, is in darkness till now.
He that loves his brother abides in the light, and there is in him no cause for offense.
He that hates his brother is in darkness, and walks in darkness; and he knows not whither he goes, because darkness has blinded his eyes.
I write to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name’s sake.
I write to you, fathers, because you have known him that is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the wicked one. I write to you, my little children, because you have known the Father.
I have written to you, fathers, because you have known him that is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the wicked one.
Love not the world, nor the things that are in the world. If any man loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
For all that is in the world, the desire of the flesh, and the desire of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.
And the world and its desire passes away: but he that does the will of God, abides forever.
Little children, it is the last time; and, as you have heard that the antichrist is coming, even now there are many antichrists; by which we know that it is the last time.
They went out from us, but they were not of us: for, if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out, that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us.
And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and know all things.
I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth.
Who is a liar, but he that denies that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist, who denies the Father and the Son.
Whoever denies the Son, has not the Father: he that confesses the Son, has the Father also.
Let that, therefore, abide in you which you have heard from the beginning. If that abide in you which you have heard from the beginning, you also shall abide in the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise which he has promised us, even eternal life.
I have written these things to you concerning those who deceive you.
And the anointing which you have received from him abides in you; and you have no need that any one should teach you: but, as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true and is no lie, even as it has taught you, abide in it.
And now, little children, abide in him, that when he appears, we may have confidence, and may not be made ashamed by him at his coming.
If you know that he is righteous, you know that every one that works righteousness has been begotten by him.