A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches; And better is good-will than silver and gold.
The rich and the poor meet together; The LORD is the Maker of them all.
The prudent man seeth the evil, and hideth himself; But the simple rush on, and are punished.
By humility and the fear of the LORD Are riches and honor and life.
Thorns and snares are in the way of the deceitful; He that will preserve his life will be far from them.
Train up a child in accordance with his way, And when he is old he will not depart from it.
The rich ruleth over the poor, And the borrower is servant to the lender.
He who soweth iniquity shall reap calamity, And the rod of his punishment is prepared.
He who hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed, Because he giveth of his bread to the poor.
Cast out the scoffer, and contention will go out; Yea, strife and reproach will cease.
He who loveth purity of heart, Grace is upon his lips, and the king will be his friend.
The eyes of the LORD watch over knowledge; But he overthroweth the words of the treacherous.
The slothful man saith, "There is a lion without; I shall be slain in the streets."
The mouth of strange women is a deep pit; He with whom the LORD is angry shall fall therein.
Folly is bound to the heart of a child; But the rod of correction will drive it far from him.
He that oppresseth the poor to increase his wealth, And he that giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want.
Incline thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, And give heed to my instruction!
For it will be a pleasant thing, if thou keep them in thy bosom, When they are altogether established upon thy lips.
That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have this day given to thee instruction, yea, to thee.
Behold, I have written to thee excellent things Concerning counsel and knowledge;
That I may make thee know rectitude, and words of truth; That thou mayst bring back words of truth to them that send thee.
Rob not the poor man, because he is poor, Nor crush thou the destitute at the gate;
For the LORD will maintain their cause, And despoil their spoilers of life.
Make no friendship with a passionate man, Nor be the companion of a man prone to wrath;
Lest thou learn his ways, And take to thyself a snare.
Be not thou one of those who strike hands, Of those who are sureties for debts.
When thou hast nothing to pay, Why should thy bed be taken from under thee?
Remove not the ancient landmark, Which thy fathers have made.
Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall be the minister of kings; He shall not serve obscure men.