Now king David was old [and] stricken in years, and they covered him with clothes, but he did not become warm.
Therefore, his servants said unto him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin, and let her stand before the king and let her warm him and let her lie in thy bosom, and she shall warm my lord the king.
So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the borders of Israel and found Abishag, a Shunammite and brought her to the king.
And the damsel [was] very fair and warmed the king and ministered to him, but the king knew her not.
Then Adonijah, the son of Haggith, exalted himself, saying, I will reign, and he prepared chariots and horsemen for himself and fifty men to run before him.
And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? and he also was very handsome; and he had begotten him after Absalom.
And he conferred with Joab, the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar, the priest who helped Adonijah.
But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan, the prophet, and Shimei and Rei and the mighty men of David did not follow Adonijah.
And Adonijah slew sheep and oxen and fat cattle by the stone of Zoheleth, which [is] by Enrogel, and called all his brethren, the king's sons, and all the men of Judah, the king's servants;
but he did not invite Nathan, the prophet, nor Benaiah nor the mighty men nor Solomon his brother.
And Nathan spoke unto Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggith, reigns without David our lord knowing of it?
Now, therefore, come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel that thou may deliver thine own life and the life of thy son Solomon.
Go and enter in unto King David and say unto him, Didst not thou, my lord, O king, swear unto thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? Why then does Adonijah reign?
And while thou art yet speaking there with the king, I also will come in after thee and finish thy words.
And Bathsheba went in unto the king into the chamber; and the king was very old; and Abishag, the Shunammite, ministered unto the king.
And Bathsheba bowed and worshipped the king. And the king said, What dost thou desire?
And she said unto him, My lord, thou didst sware by the LORD thy God unto thy handmaid, [saying], Assuredly Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne;
and now, behold, Adonijah reigns; and now, my lord the king, thou dost not know [it].
He has slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance and has called all the sons of the king and Abiathar, the priest, and Joab, the captain of the host; but he has not invited Solomon, thy servant.
And thou, my lord, O king, the eyes of all Israel [are] upon thee that thou should tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him.
Otherwise, it shall come to pass, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers that I and my son Solomon shall be counted as sinners.
And while she yet spoke with the king, Nathan, the prophet, also came in.
And they told the king, saying, Behold Nathan, the prophet. And when he was come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground.
And Nathan said, My lord, O king, hast thou said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
For today he has gone down and has slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance and has called all the king's sons and the captains of the host and Abiathar, the priest; and, behold, they eat and drink before him and say, [Long] live King Adonijah.
But he did not invite me, thy servant, nor Zadok, the priest, nor Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, nor thy servant Solomon.
Is this thing done by my lord the king, and thou hast not declared unto thy servant who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?
Then King David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba. And she came into the king's presence and stood before the king.
And the king swore and said, As the LORD lives, who has ransomed my soul out of all distress,
even as I swore unto thee by the LORD God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead; even so will I certainly do this day.
Then Bathsheba bowed with [her] face to the earth and did reverence to the king and said, Let my lord King David live for ever.
And King David said, Call me Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. And they entered into the presence of the king.
And the king said unto them, Take with you the servants of your lord and cause Solomon my son to ride upon my own mule and bring him down to Gihon.
And let Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, anoint him there king over Israel; and ye shall blow the shofar and say, [Long] live king Solomon.
[Afterward] ye shall come up after him that he may come and sit upon my throne, for he shall reign in my stead, for I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah.
Then Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, answered the king and said, Amen. Let the LORD God of my lord the king say so [too].
As the LORD has been with my lord the king, even so let him be with Solomon and let him make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David.
So Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites went down and caused Solomon to ride upon King David's mule and brought him to Gihon.
And Zadok, the priest, took the horn of the oil of the tabernacle and anointed Solomon. And they blew the shofar, and all the people said, [Long] live king Solomon.
[Afterward] all the people came up following him, and the people sang with flutes and rejoiced with great joy so [that it seemed] the earth rent with the sound of them.
And Adonijah and all the guests that [were] with him heard [it] when they had finished eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the shofar, he said, Why [is this] noise of the city being in an uproar?
And while he yet spoke, behold, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, the priest, came; and Adonijah said unto him, Come in, for thou [art] a valiant man and bringest good tidings.
And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Verily our lord King David has made Solomon king.
And the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule;
and Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, have anointed him king in Gihon; and they are come up from there rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This [is] the noise that ye have heard.
And also Solomon has been seated on the throne of the kingdom.
And moreover, the king's servants came to bless our lord King David, saying, God make the name of Solomon better than thy name and make his throne greater than thy throne. And the king worshipped upon the bed.
And also thus said the king, Blessed [be] the LORD God of Israel, who has given [one] to sit on my throne today, mine eyes even seeing [it].
And all the guests that [were] with Adonijah were afraid and rose up and went each one his way.
And Adonijah, fearing the presence of Solomon, arose and went and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
And it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah fears King Solomon, for he has caught hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let King Solomon swear unto me today that he will not slay his servant with the sword.
And Solomon said, If he will show himself virtuous, there shall not one hair of him fall to the ground, but if wickedness shall be found in him, he shall die.
So King Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and bowed himself to King Solomon. And Solomon said unto him, Go to thy house.: