Now when Jesus had been born in Bethlehem of Judaea, in the days of Herod the king, lo! there came magians from the East to Jerusalem,
saying, Where is the king of the Jews that hath been born? for we saw his star in the East, and came to do him homage.
But when Herod the king heard of these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him;
and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.
And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judaea; for thus it is written by the prophet:
"And thou Bethlehem, land of Judah, art by no means least among the princes of Judah; for out of thee shall come a ruler, who shall feed my people Israel."
Then Herod, having privately called the magians ascertained from them exactly the time when the star appeared.
And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search carefully for the child; and when ye have found him, bring me word, that I also may go and do him homage.
When they had heard the king, they departed. And lo! the star, which they had seen in the East, went before them, till it came and stood over where the child was.
When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy;
and when they had come into the house, they saw the child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and did homage to him; and opening their treasures, they presented him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.
And having been warned by God in a dream not to return to Herod, they went back to their own country another way.
And when they had gone, lo! an angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and remain there until I speak to thee; for Herod will seek the child, to destroy him.
And he arose, and took the child and his mother by night, and went to Egypt;
and was there until the death of Herod; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, "I called my son out of Egypt."
Then Herod, when he saw that he had been deceived by the magians, was greatly enraged; and sent forth, and slew all the male children that were in Bethlehem, and in all its borders, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had ascertained from the magians.
Then was fulfilled that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying,
"A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping, and great mourning; Rachel weeping for her children, and refusing to be comforted, because they were no more."
But when Herod was dead, lo! an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
saying, Arise, and take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel; for they who sought the child’s life are dead.
And he arose, and took the child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judaea in the place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither; and being warned by God in a dream, he withdrew into the parts of Galilee,
and came and took up his abode in a city called Nazareth; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophets, "He will be called a Nazarene,"