A Psalm of Asaph. Surely G-d is good to Israel, even to such as are pure in heart.
But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.
For I was envious at the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
For there are no pangs at their death, and their body is sound.
In the trouble of man they are not; neither are they plagued like men.
Therefore pride is as a chain about their neck; violence covereth them as a garment.
Their eyes stand forth from fatness; they are gone beyond the imaginations of their heart.
They scoff, and in wickedness utter oppression; they speak as if there were none on high.
They have set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.
Therefore His people return hither; and waters of fullness are drained out by them.
And they say: 'How doth G-d know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?'
Behold, such are the wicked; and they that are always at ease increase riches.
Surely in vain have I cleansed my heart, and washed my hands in innocency;
For all the day have I been plagued, and my chastisement came every morning.
If I had said: 'I will speak thus', behold, I had been faithless to the generation of Thy children.
And when I pondered how I might know this, it was wearisome in mine eyes;
Until I entered into the sanctuary of G-d, and considered their end.
Surely Thou settest them in slippery places; Thou hurlest them down to utter ruin.
How are they become a desolation in a moment! They are wholly consumed by terrors.
As a dream when one awaketh, so, O L-rd, when Thou arousest Thyself, Thou wilt despise their semblance.
For my heart was in a ferment, and I was pricked in my reins.
But I was brutish, and ignorant; I was as a beast before Thee.
Nevertheless I am continually with Thee; Thou holdest my right hand.
Thou wilt guide me with Thy counsel, and afterward receive me with glory.
Whom have I in heaven but Thee? And beside Thee I desire none upon earth.
My flesh and my heart faileth; but G-d is the rock of my heart and my portion for ever.
For, lo, they that go far from Thee shall perish; Thou dost destroy all them that go astray from Thee.
But as for me, the nearness of G-d is my good; I have made the L-rd GOD my refuge, that I may tell of all Thy works.