And it happened, in the time Apollos was in Corinth, Paul was passing through the higher parts to come to Ephesus. And finding some disciples,
he said to them, Believing, did you receive the Holy Spirit? And they said to him, We did not even hear whether the Holy Spirit is.
And he said to them, Then to what were you baptized? And they said, To the baptism of John.
And Paul said, John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe into the One coming after him, that is, into the Christ, Jesus.
And hearing, they were baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus.
And Paul laying hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke in languages and prophesied.
And all the men were about twelve.
And going into the synagogue, he spoke boldly over three months, having reasoned with them , and persuading concerning the things of the kingdom of God.
But when some were hardened, and did not obey, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, departing from them, He separated the disciples, conversing day by day in the school of a certain Tyrannus.
And this happened over two years, so as all those living in Asia heard the Word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
And God did uncommon works of power through the hands of Paul,
so as even handkerchiefs or aprons from his skin to be brought onto those sick, and the diseases to be released from them, and the evil spirits to go out from them.
But certain from the strolling Jews, exorcists, undertook to name the name of the Lord Jesus over those having evil spirits, saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches.
And there were seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, doing this.
But answering the evil spirit said, I know Jesus, and I comprehend Paul, but who are you?
And the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped on them, and overcoming them, he was strong against them, and having been wounded, they fled out of the house naked.
And this became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, those living in Ephesus. And fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
And many of those who had believed came confessing, and declaring their deeds.
And many of the ones practicing the curious arts, bringing together the books, burned them before all. And they counted the prices of them, and found it to be five ten thousands of silver.
So with might, the Word of the Lord increased and was strong.
And when these things were fulfilled, passing through Macedonia and Achaia, Paul purposed in the Spirit to go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have come there, I must also see Rome.
And sending into Macedonia two who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, he stayed a time in Asia.
And about that time there was no little disturbance about the Way.
For a certain silversmith named Demetrius was making silver shrines of Artemis, providing no little trade for the craftsmen.
And assembling the workmen about such things, he said, Men, you understand that from this trade is our wealth.
And you see and hear that not only Ephesus, but almost all of Asia, persuading, this Paul perverted a huge crowd, saying that those being made by hands are not gods.
And not only is this dangerous to us, lest our part come to be in contempt, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be counted nothing, and her majesty is also about to be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worships.
And hearing, and having become full of anger, they cried out, saying, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
And all the city was filled with confusion. And they rushed with one passion into the theater, keeping a firm grip on Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, traveling companions of Paul.
And Paul intending to go in to the mob, the disciples did not allow him.
And also some of the Asiarchs, being his friends, sending to him begged him not to give himself into the theater.
Then others indeed cried out a different thing, for the assembly was confused, and the majority did not know on what account they came together.
But they dragged Alexander forward out of the crowd, the Jews thrusting him in front. And waving his hand, Alexander desired to defend himself to the mob.
But knowing that he is a Jew, one voice was from all, as they were crying out over two hours, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
And quieting the crowd, the town clerk said, Men, Ephesians, for what man is there who does not know the city of the Ephesians to be temple keepers of the great goddess Artemis, and of That Fallen From the Sky?
Then these things being undeniable, it is necessary for you, having been calmed, to be so , and to do nothing rash.
For you brought these men, being neither temple robbers nor blaspheming your goddess.
If then, indeed, Demetrius and those craftsmen with him have a matter against anyone, courts are being held , and there are proconsuls. Let them accuse one another.
But if you seek concerning other things, it will be settled in a lawful assembly.
For we are in danger to be accused of insurrection concerning today, there being no cause about which we will be able to give account of this crowding together.
And saying these things, he dismissed the assembly.