Yet now hear, O Jacob, my servant, And Israel, whom I have chosen;
Thus saith Jehovah, thy Creator, He that formed thee, and hath helped thee from thy birth, Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, O Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.
For I will pour water upon the thirsty land, And streams upon the dry ground. I will pour out my spirit on thy children, And my blessing on thine offspring;
And they shall grow up, as among grass; As willows by the water-brooks.
One shall say, "I belong to Jehovah"; Another shall call upon the name of Jacob; Another shall write upon his hand, Jehovah’s! And praise the name of Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah, the King of Israel, His redeemer, Jehovah of hosts: I am the first, and I the last, And besides me there is no God.
Who like me hath proclaimed the future,—Let him declare it, and set it in order before me!— Since I established the people of old? Let them make known the future, even that which is to come!
Fear ye not, neither be ye afraid! Have I not declared and made it known to you of old? Ye are my witnesses; Is there a God beside me? Yea, there is no other rock; I know not any.
They that make a graven image are all of them vanity, And their valued works are profitable for nothing; They are their own witnesses; They neither see nor understand, So that they may be ashamed.
Who hath formed a god, And cast a graven image, that is profitable for nothing?
Behold, all his fellows shall be ashamed; The workmen are themselves mortal men; They shall all be assembled; they shall stand up; They shall tremble, and be put to shame together!
The smith prepareth an axe in the coals, And fashioneth it with hammers, And worketh it with his strong arm; He becometh hungry, and his strength faileth; He drinketh no water, and is faint.
The carpenter stretcheth out the line; He marketh out the form of it with the sharp tool; He formeth it with planes; He marketh it with the compass; He maketh it in the figure of a man, With the beauty of a man, To dwell in a house.
He heweth him down cedars; He taketh the ilex and the oak; He chooseth for himself among the trees of the forest; He planteth the ash, and the rain matureth it;
These are fuel for man; He taketh thereof and warmeth himself; He kindleth with it, and baketh bread; A god also he formeth of it, and worshippeth it; A graven image, and falleth down before it.
Half of it he burneth with fire; With half of it he eateth flesh; He roasteth meat, and satisfieth himself; He also warmeth himself, and saith, Aha! I am warm; I feel the fire.
Of the residue he maketh a god, even his graven image; He falleth down before it and worshippeth it, And prayeth to it, and saith, "Deliver me, for thou art my God!"
They know not, neither understand; For their eyes are closed up, that they cannot see, And their hearts, that they cannot understand.
None considereth in his mind, Or hath knowledge and understanding to say: "Half of it I have burned with fire; I have also baked bread on the coals of it; I have roasted flesh and have eaten; And shall I make the remnant an abomination? Shall I fall down before the stock of a tree?"
He toileth for ashes; A deluded heart turneth him aside, So that he cannot deliver himself, and say "Is there not a lie in my right hand?"
Remember these things, O Jacob, O Israel, for thou art my servant! I formed thee; thou art my servant; O Israel, I will not forget thee.
I have caused thy transgressions to vanish like a cloud, And thy sins like a mist; Return to me, for I have redeemed thee!
Sing, O ye heavens, for Jehovah hath done it; Shout, O ye depths of the earth! Break forth into song, ye mountains! Thou forest, and every tree therein! For Jehovah hath redeemed Jacob, And glorified himself in Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer, Even he that formed thee from the womb; I am Jehovah, who made all things; Who stretched out the heavens alone; Who spread out the earth by myself;
Who frustrateth the signs of deceivers, And maketh the diviners mad; Who putteth the wise men to shame, And maketh their knowledge folly;
Who establisheth the word of his servant, And performeth the purpose of his messengers; Who saith of Jerusalem, "She shall be inhabited," And of the cities of Judah, "They shall be built," And, "Her desolated places I will restore."
Who saith to the deep, "Be dry! I will dry up thy streams!"
Who saith of Cyrus, "He is my shepherd; He shall perform all my pleasure"; Who saith of Jerusalem, "She shall be built," And of the temple, "Her foundation shall be laid."