A wise woman builds her house, but the foolish pulls it down with her own hands.
He who walks in his uprightness fears Jehovah, but the perverse in his ways despises Him.
A rod of pride is in the mouth of a fool, but the lips of the wise shall keep them.
The stall is clean where there are no cattle, but much gain is by the strength of an ox.
A faithful witness will not lie, but a false witness breathes lies.
A scorner seeks wisdom, but finds it not, yet knowledge is swift to the discerning.
Go from before a foolish man, or you will not see the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of the wise is to understand his way, but the foolishness of fools is deceit.
Fools laugh at guilt offering, but among the righteous is favor.
The heart knows the bitterness of its soul, and a stranger does not mix in its joy.
The wicked's house shall be thrown down, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
There is a way that seems right to a man, but the end of it is the ways of death.
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the end of that joy is heaviness.
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways, but a good man from himself.
The simple believes every word, but the wise considers his step.
The wise fears and departs from evil, but the fool rages and is sure.
He who is short of temper acts foolishly; and a man of evil plots is hated.
The simple inherit foolishness, but the wise are crowned with knowledge.
The evil bow before the good; yea, the wicked at the gates of the just.
The poor is hated even by his own neighbor, but the rich has many friends.
He who despises his neighbor sins, but he who has mercy on the poor, Oh how happy is he!
Do not those who think evil go astray? But mercy and truth will be to those who think of good.
In all labor there is profit, but the talk of the lips tends only to poverty.
The crown of the wise is their riches of wisdom ; the foolishness of fools is folly.
A true witness delivers souls, but a deceitful witness speaks lies.
In the fear of Jehovah is strong trust, and His sons shall have a hiding place.
The fear of Jehovah is a fountain of life, to turn away from snares of death.
In the multitude of people is the king's glory, but in the lack of people is the ruin of a prince.
One slow to anger is of great understanding, but he who is short of spirit exalts folly.
A healthy heart is the life of the flesh, but envy is the rottenness of the bones.
He who oppresses the poor curses his Maker, but he who honors Him has mercy on the needy.
The wicked is thrust out in his wickedness, but the righteous has hope in his death.
Wisdom rests in the heart of the intelligent, but among fools it is revealed.
Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a shame to any people.
The king's favor is toward a servant who acts prudently, but his wrath takes place on one causing shame.