Moreover, when ye shall divide the land by lot for inheritance, ye shall offer an oblation to Jehovah, a holy portion of the land. The length shall be the length of twenty-five thousand measures, and the breadth shall be ten thousand. It shall be holy in all the border of it round about.
Of this there shall be for the holy place five hundred by five hundred square round about, and fifty cubits for the suburbs of it round about.
And of this measure thou shall measure a length of twenty-five thousand, and a breadth of ten thousand. And the sanctuary shall be in it, which is most holy.
It is a holy portion of the land. It shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to Jehovah, and it shall be a place for their houses, and a holy place for the sanctuary.
And twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth, shall be to the Levites, the ministers of the house, for a possession to themselves, for twenty chambers.
And ye shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand broad, and twenty-five thousand long, side by side with the oblation of the holy portion. It shall be for the whole house of Israel.
And whatever is for the ruler shall be on the one side and on the other side of the holy oblation and of the possession of the city, in front of the holy oblation and in front of the possession of the city, on the west side westward, and on the east side eastward, and in length answerable to one of the portions, from the west border to the east border.
It shall be to him for a possession in the land in Israel. And my rulers shall no more oppress my people, but they shall give the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: Let it suffice you, O rulers of Israel. Remove violence and spoil, and execute justice and righteousness. Take away your exactions from my people, says the lord Jehovah.
Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.
The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain the tenth part of a homer, and the ephah the tenth part of a homer. The measure of it shall be according to the homer.
And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs. Twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh.
This is the oblation that ye shall offer: The sixth part of an ephah from a homer of wheat, and ye shall give the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of barley,
and the set portion of oil, of the bath of oil, the tenth part of a bath out of the cor, which is ten baths, even a homer, (for ten baths are a homer),
and one lamb of the flock, out of two hundred, from the well-watered pastures of Israel, for a meal offering, and for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make atonement for them, says the lord Jehovah.
All the people of the land shall give to this oblation for the ruler in Israel.
And it shall be the ruler's part to give the burnt offerings, and the meal offerings, and the drink offerings, in the feasts, and on the new moons, and on the sabbaths, in all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel. He shall prepare the sin offering, and the meal offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: In the first month, in the first day of the month, thou shall take a young bullock without blemish, and thou shall cleanse the sanctuary.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering, and put it upon the door-posts of the house, and upon the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and upon the posts of the gate of the inner court.
And so thou shall do on the seventh day of the month for each one who errs, and for him who is simple. So shall ye make atonement for the house.
In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, ye shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days. Unleavened bread shall be eaten.
And upon that day the ruler shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bullock for a sin offering.
And the seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to Jehovah, seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily the seven days, and a he-goat daily for a sin offering.
And he shall prepare a meal offering, an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil to an ephah.
In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, in the feast, he shall do the like the seven days, according to the sin offering, according to the burnt offering, and according to the meal offering, and according to the oil.