Whoever wishes for vengeance will find vengeance from the Lord, and he will surely be attentive to his sins.
Forgive your neighbor, if he has harmed you, and then your sins will be forgiven you when you pray.
A man holds on to anger against another man, and does he then seek a remedy from God?
He has no mercy on a man like himself, and does he then entreat for his own sins?
He who is but flesh holds on to anger, and does he then request forgiveness from God? Who can obtain pardon for his sins in this way?
Remember your very end, and let animosities cease.
For corruption and death are suspended over his commandments.
Remember the fear of God, and do not be angry with your neighbor.
Remember the covenant of the Most High, and overlook the ignorant offenses of your neighbor.
Refrain from strife, and you will diminish your sins.
For an ill-tempered man enflames conflict, and a sinful man troubles his friends, and he casts hostility into the midst of those who have peace.
For the fire burns according to the wood of the forest. And the anger of a man burns according to the strength of the man. And according to his resources, he will exalt his anger.
A hasty contention kindles a fire. And a hasty quarrel sheds blood. And an accusatory tongue brings death.
If you blow on a spark, it will increase to a fire. But if you spit on it, it will be extinguished. Both of these proceed from the mouth.
The double-tongued whisperer is accursed. For he has disturbed many who had peace.
A third tongue has stirred up many, and has scattered them from nation to nation.
It has destroyed the walled cities of the wealthy, and has undermined the houses of the great.
It has cut down the virtues of the peoples, and has broken strong nations.
A third tongue has cast down virtuous women, and has deprived them of their labors.
Whoever favors it will not have rest, nor will he have a friend in whom he may find peace.
The wound of a whip causes a bruise, but the wound of the tongue will crush the bones.
Many have fallen by the mouth of the sword, but not as many as have perished by their own tongue.
Blessed is he who is protected from a wicked tongue, who has not gone over to its wrath, and has not pulled its yoke, and has not been bound by its chains.
For its yoke is a yoke of iron. And its chains are chains of brass.
Its death is a most wicked death. And hell is more useful than it is.
Its continuance will not be permanent, but it will take hold of the ways of the unjust. And the just will not be burned by its flame.
Those who abandon God will fall by it, and it will burn within them and not be quenched. And it will be sent upon them, like a lion, and it will wound them, like a leopard.
Hedge your ears with thorns. Do not be willing to listen to a wicked tongue. And make doors and bars for your mouth.
Melt down your gold and your silver. And make a scale for your words, and an upright bridle for your mouth.
And be attentive, lest perhaps you may slip with your tongue, and fall in the sight of your enemies, who are lying in wait for you, and then your fall may be incurable unto death.