THEN came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees from Jerusalem, saying,
Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread?
And he answering said to them, And why do you transgress the command of God, by your tradition?
For God commanded, saying “Honour thy father and thy mother:” and, He that curseth father or mother, let him surely die.
But ye say, If any man declare to his father or mother, This is a devoted gift, which else might have been employed by me for thy advantage;
then he shall not with it honour his father and mother: so have ye vacated the command of God by your tradition.
Ye hypocrites, well hath Isaiah prophesied concerning you, saying,
This people draweth nigh to me with their mouths, and honoureth me with the lips, but their heart is far distant from me.
But in vain do they worship me, teaching doctrines the commandments of men.
And he called to him the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand:
not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but what cometh out of the mouth, that defileth the man.
Then his disciples approaching, said to him, Knowest thou how offended the Pharisees were at hearing that speech?
Then he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted shall be rooted up.
Leave them to themselves: they are blind leaders of the blind. But if the blind lead the blind, they will both fall into the pit.
Then Peter answering said unto him, Explain to us this parable.
And Jesus said, Are ye also to this time destitute of intelligence?
Do ye not observe, that every thing which entereth into the mouth passeth into the belly, and is ejected into the vault?
But the things which go forth out of the mouth, come out of the heart, and they are the things which defile a man:
for out of the heart proceed wicked reasonings, murders, adulteries, whoredoms, thefts, false testimonies, blasphemies:
these are the things which defile a man: but to eat with unwashed hands doth not defile a man.
And going forth thence, Jesus retired into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon.
And lo! a woman of Canaan coming out of these coasts, cried aloud, saying to him, Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David: my daughter is a grievous demoniac.
But he replied not a word to her. Then his disciples came and intreated him, saying, Send her away; for she is crying aloud after us.
But he said in reply, I am not sent, save only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Then she came, and worshiped him, saying, Lord, help me!
But he answering said, It is not proper to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.
And she said, True, Lord: yet even the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master’s table.
Then Jesus answering said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith! be it unto thee even as thou desirest. And her daughter was cured from that hour.
And departing thence, Jesus went to the sea-side of Galilee; and ascending a mountain, he sat down there.
And great multitudes came to him, bringing with them the lame, blind, dumb, cripples, and many others, and cast them down at the feet of Jesus; and he cured them all:
insomuch that the multitude marvelled when they saw the dumb speaking, the cripples sound, the lame walking, and the blind restored to sight: and they glorified the God of Israel.
Then Jesus calling his disciples, said, I have compassion on the multitude, for they have now continued with me three days, and have not any thing to eat: and send them away fasting I will not, lest they faint on the road.
And his disciples said unto him, Whence can we in the wilderness have loaves enough to satisfy the cravings of so great a multitude?
And Jesus said unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes.
And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground.
And taking the seven loaves and the fishes, he gave thanks, and brake, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
And they did all eat, and were filled: and took up a superabundance of fragments seven baskets full.
And they that had eaten were four thousand men, besides women and children.
And dismissing the multitudes he went on board a vessel, and came into the coasts of Magdala.