When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples.
And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus frequently resorted thither with his disciples.
Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, comes thither with lanterns and torches and weapons.
Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek all of you?
They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus says unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them.
As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.
Then asked he them again, Whom seek all of you? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: if therefore all of you seek me, let these go their way:
That the saying (o. logos) might be fulfilled, which he spoke, Of them which you gave me have I lost none.
Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and stroke the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus.
Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up your sword into the sheath: the cup which my Father has given me, shall I not drink it?
Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and bound him,
And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year.
Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple: that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest.
But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spoke unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter.
Then says the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Are not you also one of this man's disciples? He says, I am not.
And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of coals; for it was cold: and they warmed themselves: and Peter stood with them, and warmed himself.
The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine.
Jesus answered him, I spoke openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, where the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing.
Why ask you me? ask them which heard me, what I have said unto them: behold, they know what I said.
And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answer you the high priest so?
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smite you me?
Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest.
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Are not you also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not.
One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, says, Did not I see you in the garden with him?
Peter then denied again: and immediately the cock crew.
Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment: and it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled; but that they might eat the passover.
Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring all of you against this man?
They answered and said unto him, If he were not a villain, we would not have delivered him up unto you.
Then said Pilate unto them, Take all of you him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death:
That the saying (o. logos) of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying what death he should die.
Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Are you the King of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Say you this thing of yourself, or did others tell it you of me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you unto me: what have you done?
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from behind.
Pilate therefore said unto him, Are you a king then? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth hears my voice.
Pilate says unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and says unto them, I find in him no fault at all.
But all of you have a custom, that I should release unto you one at the passover: will all of you therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews?
Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.