The mighty God, even the LORD, has spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof.
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shined.
Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.
He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people.
Gather my saints together to me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.
And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge himself. Selah.
Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against you: I am God, even your God.
I will not reprove you for your sacrifices or your burnt offerings, to have been continually before me.
I will take no bullock out of your house, nor he goats out of your folds.
For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills.
I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine.
If I were hungry, I would not tell you: for the world is mine, and the fullness thereof.
Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?
Offer to God thanksgiving; and pay your vows to the most High:
And call on me in the day of trouble: I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me.
But to the wicked God says, What have you to do to declare my statutes, or that you should take my covenant in your mouth?
Seeing you hate instruction, and casts my words behind you.
When you saw a thief, then you consented with him, and have been partaker with adulterers.
You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue frames deceit.
You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother’s son.
These things have you done, and I kept silence; you thought that I was altogether such an one as yourself: but I will reprove you, and set them in order before your eyes.
Now consider this, you that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.
Whoever offers praise glorifies me: and to him that orders his conversation aright will I show the salvation of God.