ALEPH. Blessed are the upright in the way, who walk in the law of the LORD.
Blessed are they who keep His testimonies, and who seek Him with all the heart.
They also do no iniquity; they walk in His ways.
You have commanded us to keep Your commandments carefully.
O that my ways were fixed to keep Your statutes!
Then I shall not be ashamed, when I have respect to all Your commandments.
I will praise You with uprightness of heart when I have learned Your righteous judgments.
I will keep Your statutes; do not forsake me completely.
BETH. With what shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word.
With all my heart I have sought You; do not let me wander from Your commandments.
I have hidden Your word in my heart, so that I might not sin against You.
Blessed are You, O LORD; teach me Your statutes.
With my lips I have declared all the judgments of Your mouth.
I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies, as much as in all riches.
I will think on Your commandments and have respect to Your ways.
I will delight myself in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word.
GIMEL. Deal bountifully with Your servant, that I may live and keep Your word.
Open my eyes, so that I may behold wonderful things out of Your law.
I am a stranger in the earth; do not hide Your commandments from me.
My soul breaks for the longing that it has to Your judgments at all times.
You have rebuked the proud who are cursed, who go astray from Your commandments.
Remove cursing and scorn from me; for I have kept Your testimonies.
Princes also sat and spoke against me; but Your servant thought on Your statutes.
Your testimonies also are my delight and my advisers.
DALETH. My soul clings to the dust; give me life according to Your word.
I have declared my ways, and You hear me; teach me Your statutes.
Make me to understand the way of Your commandments, and I will speak of Your wonderful works.
My soul weeps for grief; strengthen me according to Your word.
Remove from me the way of lying; and grant me Your law graciously.
I have chosen the way of truth; I have laid Your judgments before me.
I have stuck to Your testimonies; O LORD, do not put me to shame.
I will run the way of Your commandments, when You shall enlarge my heart.
HE. O LORD, teach me the way of Your statutes, and I shall keep it to the end.
Give me understanding, and I shall keep Your law; yea, I shall observe it with all my heart.
Cause me to walk in the path of Your commandments; for I delight in them.
Bow my heart to Your testimonies, and not to unjust gain.
Turn away my eyes from seeing vanity; in Your way give me life.
Make Your word sure to Your servant, who is devoted to Your fear.
Turn away my shame which I fear; for Your judgments are good.
Behold, I have longed after Your commandments; in Your righteousness give me life.
VAU. Let Your mercies come to me, O LORD, even according to Your salvation, according to Your word.
And I shall have something to answer him who mocks me; for I trust in Your word.
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in Your judgments.
And I shall keep Your law continually forever and ever.
And I will always walk in a broad place; for I seek Your commandments.
I will speak of Your testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.
And I will delight myself in Your commandments, which I have loved.
And I will lift up my hands to Your commandments which I have loved; and I will think on Your statutes.
ZAYIN. Remember the word to Your servant, on which You have caused me to hope.
This is my comfort in my affliction; for Your word has given me life.
The proud have utterly scorned me; yet I have not turned aside from Your law.
I remembered Your judgments of old, O LORD, and have comforted myself.
Horror has taken hold on me because of the wicked who forsake Your law.
Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
I have remembered Your name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept Your law.
This was done to me, because I kept Your commandments.
CHETH. You are my portion, O LORD; I have said that I would keep Your words.
I looked for Your favor with all my heart; be merciful to me according to Your word.
I thought on my ways, and turned my feet to Your testimonies.
I made haste and did not delay to keep Your commandments.
The bands of the wicked have robbed me; but I have not forgotten Your law.
At midnight I will rise to give thanks to You because of Your righteous judgments.
I am a companion of all who fear You, and of those who keep Your commandments.
O LORD, the earth is full of Your mercy; teach me Your statutes.
TETH. You have dealt well with Your servant, O LORD, according to Your word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge; for I have believed Your commandments.
Before I was afflicted I went astray; but now I have kept Your word.
You are good, and do good; teach me Your statutes.
The proud have forged a lie against me; I will keep Your commandments with all my heart.
Their heart is without feeling, like fat; but I delight in Your law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, so that I might learn Your statutes.
The law of Your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver.
JOD. Your hands have made me and formed me; give me understanding so that I may learn Your commandments.
They who fear You will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in Your word.
I know, O LORD, that Your judgments are right, and that You have afflicted me in faithfulness.
I beseech You, let Your merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to Your word to Your servant.
Let Your tender mercies come to me so that I may live; for Your law is my delight.
Let the proud be ashamed; for they perverted my cause with lying; I will think on Your commandments.
Let those who fear You turn to me, and those who have known Your testimonies.
Let my heart be sound in Your statutes, so that I may not be ashamed.
KAPH. My soul faints for Your salvation; I hope in Your word.
My eyes fail for Your word, saying, When will You comfort me?
For I am like a wineskin in the smoke; I do not forget Your statutes.
How many are the days of Your servant? When will You carry out judgment on my persecutors?
The proud have dug pits for me, which are not according to Your law.
All Your commandments are faithful; they persecute me with lying; help me.
They had almost finished me on earth; but I did not forsake Your commandments.
According to Your loving-kindness give me life; so shall I keep the testimony of Your mouth.
LAMED. Forever, O LORD, Your word is settled in the heavens.
Your faithfulness is to all generations; You have founded the earth, and it remains.
They stand to this day according to Your ordinances; for all are Your servants.
Unless Your law had been my delight, I should then have perished in my affliction.
I will never forget Your commandments; for with them You have given me life.
I am Yours, save me; for I have sought Your commandments.
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me; but I will think on Your testimonies.
I have seen an end to all perfection; Your commandment is exceedingly broad.
MEM. Oh how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day.
Through Your commandments You make me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers; for Your testimonies are my prayer.
I understand more than the old men, because I keep Your commandments.
I have kept my feet from every evil way, so that I might keep Your word.
I have not departed from Your judgments; for You have taught me.
How sweet are Your words to my taste! More than honey to my mouth!
Through Your commandments I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.
NUN. Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path.
I have sworn, and I raised it, that I will keep Your righteous judgments.
I am afflicted very much; O LORD, give me life according to Your word.
I pray You, take the free-will offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me Your judgments.
My life is in my hand daily; yet I do not forget Your law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me; yet I do not go astray from Your commandments.
I have taken Your testimonies as an inheritance forever; for they are the rejoicing of my heart.
I have bowed down my heart to do Your statutes always to the end.
SAMECH. I hate half-hearted thoughts; but Your law do I love.
You are my hiding-place and my shield; I hope in Your word.
Depart from me, you evil-doers, for I will keep the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to Your word, that I may live; and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Hold me up, and I shall be safe; and I will always have respect to Your statutes.
You have trampled all those who go astray from Your statutes; for their deceit is falsehood.
You put away all the wicked of the earth like waste; therefore I love Your testimonies.
My flesh trembles in fear of You; and I am afraid of Your judgments.
AYIN. I have done the just and right thing; leave me not to those who crush me.
Be surety for Your servant for good; let not the proud press me down.
My eyes fail for Your salvation, and for the word of Your righteousness.
Deal with Your servant according to Your mercy, and teach me Your statutes.
I am Your servant; give me understanding, that I may know Your testimonies.
It is time for the LORD to work; for they have broken Your law.
Therefore I love Your commandments above gold; yea, even fine gold.
Therefore I count all Your commandments concerning all things to be right; I hate every false way.
PE. Your testimonies are wonderful; therefore my soul keeps them.
The entrance of Your words gives light; it gives understanding to the simple.
I opened my mouth and panted; for I longed for Your commandments.
Look on me, and be merciful to me, as You usually do to those who love Your name.
Order my steps in Your word; and do not let any iniquity rule over me.
Deliver me from the oppression of man; and I will keep Your commandments.
Make Your face shine on Your servant; and teach me Your statutes.
Rivers of water run down my eyes, because they do not keep Your law.
TZADDI. You are righteous, O LORD, and Your judgments are right.
In Your testimonies You have commanded righteousness and faithfulness exceedingly.
My zeal has eaten me up, because my enemies have forgotten Your words.
Your word is very pure; therefore Your servant loves it.
I am small and despised; yet I do not forget Your commandments.
Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and Your law is the truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me; yet Your commandments are my delight.
The righteousness of Your testimonies is everlasting; give me understanding, and I shall live.
QOPH. I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD; I will keep Your statutes.
I cried to You; save me, and I shall keep Your testimonies.
I went before the dawning of the morning and cried; I hoped in Your word.
My eyes go before the night watches, so that I might think on Your word.
Hear my voice according to Your loving-kindness; O LORD, according to Your judgment give me life.
They draw near, those who follow after wickedness; they are far from Your law.
You are near, O LORD, and all Your commandments are truth.
Concerning Your testimonies, I have known of old that You have founded them forever.
RESH. Look on my affliction, and deliver me; for I do not forget Your law.
Plead my cause, and deliver me; according to Your word give me life.
Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek Your statutes.
Great are Your tender mercies, O LORD; according to Your judgments give me life.
Many are my persecutors and my enemies, yet I do not turn aside from Your testimonies.
I saw the traitors, and was grieved because they did not keep Your word.
See how I love Your commandments; O LORD, according to Your loving-kindness give me life.
Your word is true from the beginning; and every one of Your righteous judgments endures forever.
SHIN. Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart stands in fear of Your word.
I rejoice at Your word, as one who finds great spoil.
I hate and despise lying; but I love Your law.
I praise You seven times a day because of Your righteous judgments.
Great peace is to those who love Your law, and there is no stumbling block for them.
LORD, I have hoped for Your salvation, and have done Your commandments.
My soul has kept Your testimonies; and I love them very much.
I have kept Your commandments and Your testimonies; for all my ways are before You.
TAU. Let my cry come near to You, O LORD; give me wisdom according to Your word.
Let my prayer come before You; deliver me according to Your word.
My lips shall utter praise, when You have taught me Your statutes.
My tongue shall speak Your word, for all Your commandments are righteousness.
Let Your hand help me; for I have chosen Your precepts.
I have longed for Your salvation, O LORD; and Your law is my delight.
Let my soul live, and it shall praise You; and let Your judgments help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek Your servant; for I do not forget Your commandments.