Then come to Jesus Pharisees and scribes from Jerusalem, saying,
Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread.
But he answered and said to them, Why do ye too transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition?
For God commanded, saying, "Honor thy father and thy mother;" and, "He that curseth father or mother, let him surely die."
But ye say, Whoever shall say to his father or his mother, Whatever thou mightst receive in aid from me is a gift [to God],
he shall not honor his father or his mother. Thus have ye made void the law of God for the sake of your tradition.
Hypocrites! well did Isaiah prophesy concerning you, saying,
"This people honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men."
And calling the multitude, he said to them, Hear, and understand.
Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man.
Then come the disciples, and say to him, Dost thou know that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard that saying?
But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father did not plant will be rooted up.
Let them alone; they are blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a ditch.
And Peter answering said to him, Explain to us that dark saying.
And he said, Are ye too still without discernment?
Do ye not understand, that whatever entereth the mouth goeth into the stomach, and is cast out into the drain?
But the things which proceed from the mouth come out of the heart; and these defile a man.
For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimony, blasphemies.
These are the things which defile a man; but to eat with unwashed hands defileth not a man.
And Jesus, going from thence, withdrew to the parts of Tyre and Sidon.
And, lo! a woman of Canaan came out from those borders, and cried out, saying, Have compassion on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter is grievously afflicted with a demon.
But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying Send her away, for she is crying out after us.
But he answered and said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Then she came and fell down before him, saying, Lord, help me!
But he answering said, It is not allowable to take the children’s bread, and throw it to the little dogs.
And she said, Yea, Lord; for the little dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from the table of their masters.
Then Jesus answering said to her, O woman, great is thy faith; be it done to thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was cured from that hour.
And departing thence, Jesus came near the lake of Galilee; and going up the mountain, he sat down there.
And great multitudes came to him, having with them those who were lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others; and they laid them down at his feet, and he healed them;
so that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb speaking, the maimed sound, and the lame walking, and the blind seeing; and they gave glory to the God of Israel.
And Jesus having called his disciples to him, said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they have remained with me now three days, and have nothing to eat; and I am not willing to send them away fasting, lest they faint on the road.
And the disciples say to him, Whence should we have so many loaves in a wilderness, as to fill so great a multitude?
And Jesus saith to them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes.
And bidding the multitude to lie down on the ground,
he took the seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks, and broke, and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes.
And they all ate, and were filled; and they took up of the fragments that remained, seven baskets full.
And they who ate were four thousand men, besides children and women.
Then he sent away the multitudes, and went on board the boat, and came into the borders of Magadan.