After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Now there is a pool at the Sheep Gate at Jerusalem, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porches.
In these lay a great multitude of those who were sick, of blind, lame, withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
For an angel went down at a certain time into the pool and troubled the water. Then whoever first stepped in after the troubling of the water was made whole of whatever disease he had.
And a certain man was there, who had an infirmity thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw him lying, and knowing that he had spent much time, He said to him, Do you desire to be made whole?
The infirm man answered Him, Sir, when the water is troubled, I have no one to put me into the pool. But while I am coming, another steps down before me.
Jesus says to him, Rise, take up your bed and walk.
And immediately the man was made whole and took up his bed and walked. And it was a sabbath on that day.
Therefore the Jews said to him who had been healed, It is the sabbath. It is not lawful for you to take up the bed.
He answered them, He who made me whole said to me, Take up your bed and walk.
Then they asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your bed and walk?
And he did not know Him who had cured him, for Jesus had moved away, a crowd being in the place.
Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you are made whole. Sin no more lest a worse thing come to you.
The man departed and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him whole.
And therefore the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill Him, because He had done these things on the sabbath day.
But Jesus answered them, My Father works until now, and I work.
Then, because of this, the Jews sought the more to kill Him, because He not only had broken the sabbath, but also said that God was His father, making Himself equal with God.
Then Jesus answered and said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of Himself but what He sees the Father do. For whatever things He does, these also the Son does likewise.
For the Father loves the Son and shows Him all the things that He Himself does. And He will show Him greater works than these, so that you may marvel.
For as the Father raises the dead and makes alive, even so the Son of man makes alive whomever He will.
For the Father judges no man, but has committed all judgment to the Son,
so that all should honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears My word and believes on Him who sent Me has everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation, but has passed from death to life.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the hour is coming and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they who hear shall live.
For as the Father has life in Himself, so He has given to the Son to have life within Himself,
and has given Him authority to execute judgment also, because He is the Son of man.
Do not marvel at this, for the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves shall hear His voice,
and shall come forth, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have practiced evil to the resurrection of condemnation.
I can do nothing of My own self. As I hear, I judge, and My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will, but the will of the Father who has sent Me.
If I bear witness of Myself, My witness is not true.
There is another who bears witness of Me, and I know that the witness which He witnesses of Me is true.
You sent to John, and he bore witness to the truth.
But I do not receive testimony from man, but these things I say so that you might be saved.
He was a burning and shining light, and you were willing for a time to rejoice in his light.
But I have greater witness than that of John, for the works which the Father has given Me that I should finish them, the works which I do themselves witness of Me, that the Father has sent Me.
And He sending Me, the Father Himself, has borne witness of Me. Neither have you heard His voice at any time nor seen His shape.
And you do not have His word abiding in you, for you do not believe Him whom He has sent.
You search the Scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life. And they are the ones witnessing of Me,
and you will not come to Me that you might have life.
I do not receive honor from men.
But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in you.
I have come in My Father's name, and you do not receive Me. If another shall come in his own name, him you will receive.
How can you believe, you who receive honor from one another and do not seek the honor that comes from God only?
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; there is one who accuses you, Moses, in whom you trust.
For if you had believed Moses, you would have believed Me, for he wrote of Me.
But if you do not believe his writings, how shall you believe My words?