And the sons of Israel pulled up and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho.
And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
And Moab was much afraid of the people because they were many. And Moab was worried because of the sons of Israel.
And Moab said to the elders of Midian, Now this company is licking up all around us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field. And Balak the son of Zippor was king of the Moabites at that time.
He sent messengers therefore to Balaam the son of Beor, to Pethor, by the river of the land of the sons of his people, to call him, saying, Behold! A people come out from Egypt. Behold! They cover the face of the earth, and they are staying across from me.
Therefore, I pray you, come now and curse this people for me. For they are too mighty for me. Perhaps I shall prevail so that we may strike them, and so that I may drive them out of the land. For I know that he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed.
And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian pulled up with the rewards of divination in their hand. And they came to Balaam and spoke the words of Balak to him.
And he said to them, stay here tonight, and I will bring you word again, as the LORD shall speak to me. And the leaders of Moab stayed with Balaam.
And God came to Balaam and said, What men are these with you?
And Balaam said to God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me, saying,
Behold! A people has come out of Egypt which covers the face of the earth. Come now, curse them for me. Perhaps, I shall be able to overcome them and drive them out.
And God said to Balaam, You shall not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for they are blessed.
And Balaam rose up in the morning and said to the leaders of Balak, Go into your land, for the LORD refuses to let me go with you.
And the leaders of Moab rose up. And they went to Balak and said, Balaam refuses to come with us.
And Balak sent leaders again, more and more honorable than those.
And they came to Balaam and said to him, So says Balak the son of Zippor, Please let nothing hinder you from coming to me.
For I will raise you up to very great honor, and I will do whatever you say to me. Please come then and curse this people for me.
And Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the LORD my God, to do less or more.
But please now stay here also this night so that I may know what more the LORD will say to me.
And God came to Balaam at night and said to him, If the men come to call you, rise up, go with them. But still, the word which I shall say to you, that you shall do.
And Balaam rose up in the morning and saddled his ass, and went with the rulers of Moab.
And God's anger was kindled because he went. And the Angel of the LORD stood in the way as an enemy against him. And he was riding upon his ass, and his two servants with him.
And the ass saw the Angel of the LORD standing in the way, and His sword drawn in His hand. And the ass turned aside out of the way and went into the field. And Balaam struck the ass, to turn her into the way.
But the Angel of the LORD stood in a path of the vineyards, a wall on this side, and a wall on that side.
And when the ass saw the Angel of the LORD, she pushed herself into the wall and crushed Balaam's foot against the wall. And he struck her again.
And the Angel of the LORD went further and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left.
And when the ass saw the Angel of the LORD, she fell down under Balaam. And Balaam's anger was kindled, and he struck the ass with a staff.
And the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she said to Balaam, What have I done to you, that you have beaten me these three times?
And Balaam said to the ass, Because you have mocked me. I wish there were a sword in my hand, for now I would kill you.
And the ass said to Balaam, Am I not your ass, upon which you have ridden ever since I was yours, to this day? Was I ever known to do so to you? And he said, No.
Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the Angel of the LORD standing in the way, and His sword drawn in His hand. And he bowed down his head, and fell on his face.
And the Angel of the LORD said to him, Why have you beaten your ass these three times? Behold! I went out to be an enemy to you, because your way is perverse before Me.
And the ass saw Me and turned from Me these three times. Unless she had turned from Me, surely now I also would have killed you and saved her alive.
And Balaam said to the Angel of the LORD, I have sinned. For I did not know that You stood in the way against me. Now therefore, if it displeases You, I will go back again.
And the Angel of the LORD said to Balaam, Go with the men. But only the word that I shall speak to you, that you shall speak. So Balaam went with the leaders of Balak.
And when Balak heard that Balaam had come, he went out to meet him, to a city of Moab, in the border of Arnon, which is in the outermost border.
And Balak said to Balaam, Did I not earnestly send to you to call you? Why did you not come to me? Am I not able indeed to lift you up to honor?
And Balaam said to Balak, Lo, I have come to you. Have I now any power at all to say anything? The word that God puts in my mouth, that I shall speak.
And Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kirjath-huzoth.
And Balak offered oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam and to the leaders that were with him.
And it happened on the next day Balak took Balaam and brought him up into the high places of Baal, so that from there he might see the edge of the people.