And he showed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal, coming out from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
In the midst of the street of the city, and on each side of the river, was the tree of life, which bore twelve kinds of fruit, and yielded its fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
And there shall be no more curse; and the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it: and his servants shall serve him.
And they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads.
And there shall be no more night; and they have no need of the lamp, nor of the light of the sun: for the Lord God will give them light: and they shall reign from age to age.
And he said to me: These words are faithful and true; and the Lord God of the spirits of the prophets has sent his angel to show his servants the things that must shortly take place.
And behold, I come quickly: blessed is he that keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.
And I, John, am he that saw and heard these things. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel that showed me these things.
And he said to me: See that you do it not; I am your fellow-servant, and of your brethren the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book: worship God.
And he said to me: Seal not the words of the prophecy of this book: for the time is at hand.
He that is unjust, let him be unjust still; he that is polluted, let him be polluted still; and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still; and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
Behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me, to give to every one as his work shall be.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
Blessed are those who do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and that they may go through the gates into the city.
Without are dogs and sorcerers and lewd persons and murderers and idolaters, and every one that loves and makes a lie.
I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify these things to you for the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright, morning star.
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come; and let him that hears, say, Come; and let him that is thirsty, come; and let him that is willing, take the water of life freely.
I testify to every one that hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if any one add to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this book.
And if any one take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life, and from the holy city; which things are written in this book.
He that testifies these things, says: Surely, I come quickly. Amen: come, Lord Jesus.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all the saints.        DENARIUS.―The earlier = 8½ d. , 17 cents: the later = 7½ d., 15 cents.   DRACHMA = the denarius, or 15 cents.   DIDRACHMA = 30 cents.   STATER = 60 cents.   CHŒNIX = about a quart.   YOD, is the name of the smallest letter of the Hebrew alphabet.   PEDAGOGUE, (Gal. 3:24) was a servant that led the children of his master to school. The literal meaning of the word is, “a leader of children.” The pedagogue did not teach, but conducted his master’s children to the schoolmaster.