And the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puah, and Jashub, and Shimron, four.
And the sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers house, these to Tola, great men of might in their generations. Their number in the days of David was twenty-two thousand and six hundred.
And the son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, five. All of them chiefs.
And with them, by their generations, after the house of their fathers, were bands of soldiers for war, thirty-six thousand men. For they had many wives and sons.
And their brothers among all the families of Issachar were great men of might, being in all, by their genealogies, eighty-seven thousand.
The sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.
And the sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five heads of their fathers' house, mighty men of valor. And their genealogy, twenty-two thousand and thirty-four.
And the sons of Becher: Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and Alameth. All these were the sons of Becher.
And their genealogy by their generations, heads of their fathers' house, mighty men of valor, twenty thousand and two hundred.
And the son of Jediael was Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.
All these were the sons of Jediael, by the heads of their fathers, mighty men of valor, seventeen thousand and two hundred men, going out to war for battle.
And Shuppim, and Huppim, the sons of Ir, and Hushim, the sons of Aher.
The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
The sons of Manasseh: Ashriel, the son born to his Syrian concubine with Machir the father of Gilead,
and Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim; and the name of his sister was Maachah. And the name of the second was Zelophehad. And Zelophehad had daughters.
And Maachah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh. And the name of his brother was Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
And the son of Ulam was Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
And his sister Hammoleketh bore Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.
And the sons of Shemida: Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Ahiam.
And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,
and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead. And the men of Gath, natives in the land, killed them because they came down to take away their cattle.
And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
And he went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his house.
And his daughter was Sherah, who built Beth-horon the lower, and the upper, and Uzzen-sherah.
And Rephah was his son, also Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,
Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
Non his son; Jehoshua his son.
And their possessions and habitations: Bethel and its towns, and eastward to Naaran, and westward to Gezer, with its towns; and Shechem and its towns, to Gaza and its towns.
And by the borders of the sons of Manasseh: Beth-shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel.
The sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah; and Serah their sister.
And the sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel; he is the father of Birzavith.
And Heber fathered Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
And the sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the sons of Japhlet.
And the sons of Shamer: Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
And the sons of his brother Helem: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
The sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
And the sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.
And the sons of Ulla: Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia.
All these were the sons of Asher, heads of their fathers' house, choice, mighty warriors, heads of the rulers. And their enrollment in the warfare in the battle, their number was twenty-six thousand men.