You shall not utter a false report; You shall not put your hand with the wicked, to become a violent witness.
You shall not run after many to gain evil things. And you shall not testify as to a lawsuit, to turn aside after many in order to pervert justice .
And you shall not favor the lowly in his lawsuit.
When you happen on the ox of your enemy, or his wandering ass, you shall surely return it to him.
When you see the ass of one who hates you crouching under its burden, you shall refrain from leaving it to him; you shall surely loose it from him.
You shall not pervert the judgment of your needy one in his lawsuit.
You shall keep far away from a false matter. And do not kill the innocent and the righteous; for I will not justify the wicked.
And you shall not take a bribe, for the bribe blinds the seeing one, and it perverts the words of the righteous.
And you shall not oppress an alien; and you know the life of an alien, since you were aliens in the land of Egypt.
And you shall sow your land six years, and you shall gather its produce.
And the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, and the needy of your people shall eat. And what they leave, the animals of the field shall eat. So you shall do to your vineyard, to your oliveyard.
You shall do your work six days, and on the seventh day you shall rest, so that your ox and your ass may rest, and the son of your slave-girl and your alien may be refreshed.
And be watchful in all that I have said to you. And you shall not mention another god by name; it shall not be heard from your mouth.
Three times in the year you shall make a feast to Me.
You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread . Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread , as I have commanded you, at the set time of the month of Abib. For in it you came out from Egypt, and they shall not appear before Me empty.
Also the Feast of Harvest, the first fruits of your labor, of what you sow in the field. Also the Feast of Ingathering, at the end of the year, at your gathering your work from the field.
Three times in the year every one of your males shall appear before the Lord Jehovah.
You shall not offer the blood of My sacrifice with leavened bread. And the fat of My feast shall not pass the night until morning.
The first, the firstfruits of your ground you shall bring to the house of Jehovah your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
Behold, I am about to send an Angel before you, to guard you in the way, and to bring you to the place which I have prepared.
Be on guard before Him, and listen to His voice. Do not be rebellious against Him, for He will not forgive your transgressions; for My name is in Him.
For if you fully listen to His voice, and do all which I speak, I will be an enemy to your enemies, and will be a foe to your foes.
For My Angel shall go before you and bring you in to the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I will cut them off.
You shall not bow down to their gods, and you shall not serve them. And you shall not do according to their works. But you shall surely tear them down, and you shall surely smash their pillars.
And you shall serve Jehovah your God, and He will bless your bread and your water. And I will remove sickness from your midst.
There shall not be one miscarrying, nor one barren in your land. I will fulfill the number of your days.
I will send My terror before you, and I will confound all the people among whom you come. And I will give the neck of your enemies to you.
And I will send hornets before you which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite before you.
I will not drive them out from before you in one year, that the land not become a waste, and the beast of the field multiply on you.
I will drive them out before you little by little, until you are fruitful and possess the land.
And I will set your border from the Sea of Reeds as far as the Sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness as far as the River. For I will give the people of the land into your hand. And you shall drive them out before you.
You shall not cut a covenant for them and for their gods.
They shall not dwell in your land, lest they cause you to sin towards Me. Surely when you serve their gods, it will be a snare to you.