The words given to King Lemuel; the prophecy which his mother taught him.
What, O my son! and what, O son of my womb! Yea, what, O son of my vows! [shall I say to thee?]
Give not thy strength to women, Nor thy ways to that which destroyeth kings!
It is not for kings, O Lemuel! It is not for kings to drink wine, Nor for princes to desire strong drink;
Lest they drink, and forget the law, And pervert the rights of any of the afflicted.
Give strong drink to him who is ready to perish, And wine to him that hath a heavy heart;
Let him drink and forget his poverty, And remember his misery no more!
Open thy mouth for the dumb, In the cause of every orphan!
Open thy mouth, judge righteously, And maintain the cause of the poor and needy!
Who can find a capable woman? Her worth is far above pearls.
The heart of her husband trusteth in her, And he is in no want of gain.
She doeth him good, and not evil, All the days of her life.
She seeketh wool and flax, And worketh willingly with her hands.
She is like the merchants’ ships; She bringeth her food from afar.
She riseth while it is yet night, And giveth food to her family, And a task to her maidens.
She layeth a plan for a field, and buyeth it; With the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.
She girdeth her loins with strength, And maketh strong her arms.
She perceiveth how pleasant is her gain, And her lamp is not extinguished in the night.
She putteth forth her hands to the distaff, And her hands take hold of the spindle.
She spreadeth out her hand to the poor, Yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.
She hath no fear for her household on account of the snow, For all her household are clothed with crimson.
She maketh for herself coverlets; Her clothing is of fine linen and purple.
Her husband is known in the gates, When he sitteth with the elders of the land.
She maketh linen garments and selleth them, And delivereth girdles to the merchant.
Strength and honor are her clothing; And she laugheth at the days to come.
She openeth her mouth with wisdom, And kind instruction is upon her tongue.
She looketh well to the ways of her household, And eateth not the bread of idleness.
Her children rise up, and extol her; Her husband, and praiseth her, [saving,]
"Many daughters have done, virtuously, But thou excellest them all."
Grace is deceitful, and beauty vain; But the woman that feareth the LORD, she shall be praised.
Give ye her of the fruit of her hands, And let her works praise her in the gates.