And when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, He sent out two of His disciples.
And He said to them, Go into the village over across from you. And as soon as you have entered into it, you will find a colt tied, on which no one of men has ever sat. Untie it and bring it.
And if anyone says to you, Why do you do this? Say that the Lord has need of him, and immediately he will send him here.
And they went, and they found the colt tied by the door outside, in a place where two ways met. And they untied him.
And certain of those who stood there said to them, What are you doing, untying the colt?
And they said to them even as Jesus had commanded. And they let them go.
And they brought the colt to Jesus, and they threw their garments on it. And He sat on it.
And many spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches off the trees and scattered them in the way.
And those going before, and those following, cried out, saying, Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!
Blessed is the kingdom of our father David, who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!
And Jesus entered into Jerusalem and into the temple. And when He had looked around on all things, the hour already being late, He went out to Bethany with the Twelve.
And on the next day, they going out of Bethany, He was hungry.
And seeing a fig-tree with leaves afar off, He went to it, if perhaps He might find anything on it. And when He came to it, He found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season of figs.
And Jesus answered and said to it, No one shall eat fruit of you forever. And His disciples heard.
And they came to Jerusalem. And entering into the temple, Jesus began to cast out those who bought and sold in the temple. And He overthrew the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those who sold doves.
And He would not allow any to carry a vessel through the temple.
And He taught, saying to them, Is it not written, "My house shall be called the house of prayer for all nations?" But you have made it a den of thieves.
And the scribes and the chief priests heard. And they sought how they might destroy Him. For they feared Him, because all the people were astonished at His doctrine.
And when evening came, He went out of the city.
And passing on early, they saw the fig-tree dried up from the roots.
And Peter, remembering, said to Him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which You cursed has withered away.
And answering Jesus said to them, Have faith of God.
For truly I say to you that whoever shall say to this mountain, Be moved and be cast into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that what he said shall occur, he shall have whatever he said.
Therefore I say to you, All things, whatever you ask, praying, believe that you shall receive them, and it will be to you.
And when you stand praying, if you have anything against anyone, forgive it so that also your Father in Heaven may forgive you your trespasses.
But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father in Heaven forgive your trespasses.
And they came again to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to Him
and said to Him, By what authority do you do these things? And who gave you this authority to do these things?
And Jesus answered and said to them, I will also ask of you one thing, and answer Me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The baptism of John, was it from Heaven, or from men? Answer Me.
And they reasoned within themselves, saying, If we shall say, From Heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him?
But if we shall say, From men, they feared the people, for all held John to be a prophet indeed.
And they answered and said to Jesus, We cannot tell. And answering Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.