After these things, Jesus revealed Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And He revealed Himself this way:
Simon Peter, and Thomas, being called The Twin, and Nathanael from Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of His disciples were together.
Simon Peter said to them, I am going out to fish. They said to him, We also are coming with you. They went and entered into the boat at once. And in that night, they caught nothing.
And it now becoming early morning, Jesus stood on the shore. However, the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
Then Jesus said to them, Children, do you not have anything to eat? They answered Him, No.
And He said to them, Cast the net into the right side of the boat and you will find.
Then they cast, and they no longer had the strength to draw, from the multitude of the fish. Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord. Then hearing that it is the Lord, Simon Peter girded on his coat (for he was naked) and threw himself into the sea.
And the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from the land, only about two hundred cubits, dragging the net of the fish.
Then when they went up on the land, they saw a coal fire lying, and a fish lying on it , and bread.
Jesus said to them, Bring from the little fish which you caught now.
Simon Peter went up and dragged the net onto the land, full of big fish, a hundred and fifty three. And though being so many, the net was not torn.
Jesus said to them, Come, break fast. And no one of the disciples dared to ask Him, Who are You? knowing that it is the Lord.
Then Jesus came and took the bread, and gave to them, and in the same way the little fish.
This now is the three times that Jesus was revealed to His disciples, He being raised from the dead.
Then when they broke fast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me more than these? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Feed My lambs!
Again He says to him, secondly, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me? He says to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Shepherd My sheep!
Thirdly, He said to him, Simon son of Jonah, do you love Me? Peter was grieved that He said to him a third time , Do you love Me? And he said to him, Lord, You perceive all things, You know that I love You! Jesus said to him, Feed My sheep!
Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself, and you walked where you desired. But when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will gird you, and will carry you where you do not desire.
But He said this signifying by what death he would glorify God. And having said this, He told him, Follow Me.
But turning, Peter saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them , who also leaned on His breast at the Supper, and said, Lord, who is the one betraying You?
Seeing him, Peter said to Jesus, Lord, and what of this one?
Jesus said to him, If I desire him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me.
Therefore, the word went out to the brothers that that disciple does not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he does not die, but, If I desire him to remain until I come, what is that to you?
This is the disciple witnessing about these other things, writing these things, and we know that his witness is true.
And there are also many things, whatever Jesus did, which if they were written singly, I suppose the world itself could not contain the books having been written. Amen.