And after this Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him.
Now the feast of tabernacles, a feast of the Jews, was near.
Then his brothers said to him: Depart hence, and go into Judea, that your disciples may see your works which you do;
for no one does any thing in secret, while he himself seeks to be before the public. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.
For neither did his brothers believe on him.
Then Jesus said to them: My time has not yet come; but your time is always ready.
The world can not hate you; but me it hates, because I testify of it, that its works are evil.
Do you go up to this feast. I go not up now to this feast, because my time has not yet fully come.
These things said he to them, and remained in Galilee.
But when his brothers had gone up, then he also went up to the feast, not openly, but, as it were, in secret.
Then the Jews sought for him at the feast, and said: Where is he?
And there was much murmuring among the multitudes concerning him. Some said: He is a good man. Others said: No; but he deceives the multitude.
However, no one spoke openly of him, for fear of the Jews.
Now in the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple, and taught.
And the Jews were astonished, and said: How has this man a knowledge of letters, having never been taught?
Then Jesus answered and said: My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me.
If any one will do his will, he shall know with respect to the teaching, whether it is of God, or I speak of myself.
He who speaks of himself, seeks his own glory; he who seeks the glory of him that sent him, he is true, and there is no unrighteousness in him.
Did not Moses give you the law? and not one of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me?
The multitude answered and said: You have a demon: who seeks to kill you?
Jesus answered and said to them: I have done one work, and you are all astonished on account of this.
Moses gave you circumcision, (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers,) and you circumcise a man on the sabbath-day.
If a man receives circumcision on the sabbath-day, that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me, because I have restored the entire man to health on the sabbath-day?
Judge not according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment.
Then said some of the men of Jerusalem: Is not this he whom they seek to kill?
and, lo, he is speaking boldly, and they say nothing to him. Have the rulers really learned that this is the Christ?
But we know this man, whence he is. But when the Christ comes, no one knows whence he is.
Then Jesus cried out in the temple, as he was teaching, and said: You both know me, and you know whence I am; and I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you know not.
But I know him, because I am from him, and he has sent me.
Then they sought to take him; yet no one laid his hand on him, because his hour had not yet come.
And many of the multitude believed on him, and said: When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than these which this man has done?
The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring such things concerning him; and the Pharisees and chief priests sent attendants to take him.
Then Jesus said to them: Yet a little while I am with you, and I go away to him that sent me.
You will seek me, and shall not find me; and where I am, you can not come.
Then the Jews said among themselves: Whither is this man about to go, that we shall not find him? Is he about to go to those who are dispersed among the Greeks, and to teach the Greeks?
What means this saying which he uttered, You will seek me, and will not find me; and, Where I am you can not come?
On the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying: If any one thirst, let him come to me and drink.
He that believes on me, as the scripture has said, from his inner self shall flow rivers of living water.
But this he spoke of the Spirit, which those who believe on him were about to receive; for the Holy Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified.
Therefore, many of the multitude, when they had heard this word, said: This is, in truth, the prophet.
Others said: This is the Christ. But others said: Does the Christ come out of Galilee?
Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the posterity of David, and from Bethlehem, the town where David was?
So there was a division among the multitude because of him.
And some of them desired to take him; but no one laid hands on him.
Then came the attendants to the chief priests and the Pharisees; and they said to them: Why have you not brought him?
The attendants answered: Never did man speak like this man.
Then the Pharisees answered them: Are you also deceived?
Has any one of the rulers, or of the Pharisees believed on him?
But this multitude that know not the law are cursed.
Nicodemus said to them (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them):
Does our law condemn a man unless it first hear from him, and know what he does?
They answered and said to him: Are you also from Galilee? Search, and see that out of Galilee arises no prophet.
And every one departed to his own house.