Follow after love and desire spiritual things, but rather that you may prophesy.
For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God. For no one hears, but in spirit he speaks mysteries.
But he who prophesies speaks to men for building up, and exhortation, and comfort.
The one speaking in a tongue builds himself up, but he prophesying builds up a church.
I wish all of you to speak in languages, but rather that you may prophesy; for greater is he prophesying than he speaking in tongues, unless he interpret so that the church may receive building up.
But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you, except I speak to you either in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in teaching?
Yet lifeless things giving a sound, whether flute or harp, if they do not give a distinction in the sound, how will it be known what is being piped or harped?
For also if a trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself for the battle?
So also you, if you do not give a clear word through the language, how will it be known what is being said? For you will be speaking into the air.
So it may be many kinds of sounds are in the world, and not one is without a distinct sound.
Therefore if I do not know the power of the sound, I will be a foreigner to him speaking, and he speaking will be a foreigner to me.
Even so you, since you are zealots of spiritual things, seek to build up the church, in order that you may abound
So then he speaking in a language, let him pray that he may interpret.
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful.
What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will also pray with the mind; I will sing with the spirit, and I will also sing with the mind.
Else, if you bless in the spirit, he occupying the place of the unlearned, how will he say the amen at your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you say?
For you truly give thanks well, but the other is not built up.
I thank my God that I speak more languages than all of you;
yet in a church I desire to speak five words with my mind, so that I might also teach others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
Brothers, do not be children in your minds, but in malice be like infants, and in your minds be mature.
In the law it is written, "By other tongues and other lips I will speak to this people, and even so they will not hear Me, says the Lord."
So that tongues are not a sign to those who believe, but to those who do not believe. But prophesying is not to those who do not believe, but to those who believe.
Therefore if the whole church has come together, and all speak in languages, and if uninstructed ones or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you rave?
But if all prophesy, and some unbeliever or one not instructed comes, he is convicted by all, he is judged by all.
And so the secrets of his heart become revealed. And so, falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you.
Then how is it, brothers? When you come together, each one of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretation. Let all things be for building up.
If one speaks in a language, let it be by two, or at the most three, and in succession. And let one interpret.
But if there is no interpreter, let him be silent in a church; and let him speak to himself and to God.
And if there are two or three prophets, let them speak, and let the others judge.
If a revelation is revealed to another sitting by, let the first be silent.
For you may all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be comforted.
And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.
For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints.
Let your women be silent in the churches; for it is not permitted to them to speak, but to be in subjection, as the Law also says.
And if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home; for it is a shame for a woman to speak in a church.
Or did the Word of God go out from you? Or did it reach only to you?
If anyone thinks to be a prophet, or a spiritual one, let him recognize the things I write to you, that they are a commandment of the Lord.
But if any is ignorant, let him be ignorant.
So then, brothers, seek to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak in languages.
Let all things be done decently and in order.