And Yahweh said unto Moses—Hew thee two tables of stone, like the first,—and I will write upon the tables the words which were upon the first tables which thou didst break in pieces;
and be thou ready by the morning,—and thou shalt come up. in the morning, into Mount Sinai; then shalt thou station thyself for me there upon the top of the mount;
and, no man, may come up with thee, and let no man so much as be seen in all the mount,—and let not even the flocks or the herds, feed in front of that mountain.
So he hewed two tables of stone like the first and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up into Mount Sinai, as Yahweh had commanded him,—and took in his hand two tables of stone.
And Yahweh descended in the cloud, and took his station with him there,—and proclaimed himself by the name Yahweh.
So Yahweh passed before him, and proclaimed,—Yahweh, Yahweh, A God of compassion and favour,—Slow to anger and abundant in lovingkindness and faithfulness:
Keeping lovingkindness to a thousand generations, Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, Though he leave not, utterly unpunished, Visiting the iniquity of fathers, Upon sons, And upon sons’ sons, Unto a third and unto a fourth generation.
Then Moses made haste,—and bent his head towards the earth and bowed himself down;
and said—If, I pray thee, I have found favour in thine eyes, O My Lord, I pray thee let My Lord go on in our midst,—although a stiff-necked people, it is, so wilt thou pardon our iniquity and our sin and take us as thine own.
And he said—Lo! I, am about to solemnise a covenant,-in presence of all thy people, will I do marvellous things, which have not been created in any part of the earth nor among any of the nations,—so shall all the people in whose midst thou, art see the work of Yahweh for a fearful thing, it is, which I, am doing with thee.
Take thou heed what, I, am commanding thee this day,—behold me! driving out from before thee—the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Take heed to thyself, Lest thou solemnise a covenant with the inhabitant of the land, whereupon, thou, art about to enter,—Lest he become a snare in thy midst;
For their altars, shall ye smash, And their pillars, shall ye shiver,—And their sacred-stems, shall ye fell.
For thou shalt not bow thyself down to another GOD,—For as for Yahweh, Jealous, is his name, A jealous GOD, he is:
Lest thou solemnise a covenant with the inhabitant of the land,—And then as surely as they go unchastely after their gods and sacrifice to their gods, So surely will he invite thee, And thou wilt eat of his sacrifice;
And thou wilt take of his daughters for thy sons,—And his daughters will go unchastely after their gods, And will cause thy sons to go unchastely after their gods.
Molten gods, shalt thou not make to thee.
The festival of unleavened cakes, shalt thou keep, seven days, shalt thou eat unleavened cakes, which I commanded thee, at the set time, in the month Abib,—for in the month Abib, camest thou forth out of Egypt.
Every one that is the first to be born, is mine,—and every one of thy cattle that is born a male, firstling of oxen or sheep.
But the firstling of an ass, thou mayst redeem with a lamb, and if thou wilt not redeem it, then shalt thou break its neck. Every firstborn of thy sons, shalt thou redeem, and he must not see my face, with empty hand.
Six days, shalt thou labour, but on the seventh day, shalt thou rest,—in plowing time and in harvest, shalt thou rest.
And the festival of weeks, shalt thou make to thee, the firstfruits of the wheat harvest,—and the festival of ingathering, at the closing in of the year:
three times in the year, shall every one of thy males see the face of the Lord Yahweh the God of Israel.
For I will root out nations from before thee, and will enlarge thy borders,—and no man shall covet thy land, when thou goes up to see the face of Yahweh thy God, three times in the year.
Thou shalt not slay, along with anything leavened, the blood of my sacrifice,—neither shall remain to the morning, the sacrifice of the festival of the passover.
The beginning of the firstfruits of thy ground, shalt thou bring into the house of Yahweh, thy God, Thou shalt not boil a kid, in the milk of its dam.
And Yahweh said unto Moses, Write for thyself these words, for according to the tenor of these words, have I solemnized with thee, a covenant, and with Israel.
So then he was there, with Yahweh, forty days and forty nights, bread, did he not eat and, water, did he not drink, and he wrote upon the tables, the words of the covenant, the ten words.
And it came to pass, when Moses came down out of Mount Sinai, with the two tables of testimony in the hand of Moses, when he came down out of the mount, that, Moses, knew not that the skin of his face shone, through his having spoken with him.
And Aaron and all the sons of Israel saw Moses, and lo! the skin of his face shone, and they stood in awe of drawing nigh unto him.
So then Moses called unto them, and Aaron and all the princes in the assembly returned unto him,—and Moses spake unto them.
And afterwards, came nigh, all the sons of Israel, and he gave them in commandment all that Yahweh had spoken with him in Mount Sinai.
And when Moses had made an end of speaking with them, he put over his face a veil:
but, as often as Moses went in before Yahweh to speak with him, he put aside the veil until he came out,—and, as often as he came out and spake unto the sons of Israel, that which he had been commanded,
the sons of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses face shone,—so Moses again put the veil over his face, until he went in to speak with him.