He entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had his hand withered.
They watched him, whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him.
He said to the man with the withered hand, "Stand up in the middle."
He said to them, "Is it lawful on the Sabbath day to do good, or to do harm? To save a life, or to kill?" But they were silent.
When he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their hearts, he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out, and his hand was restored.
The Pharisees went out, and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.
Jesus withdrew to the sea with his disciples, and a great multitude followed from Galilee, from Judea,
from Jerusalem, from Idumaea, beyond the Jordan, and those from around Tyre and Sidon. A great multitude, when they heard what great things he did, came to him.
And he told his disciples that a small boat should stay near him because of the crowd, so that they would not press on him.
For he had healed many, so that as many as had diseases pressed on him that they might touch him.
The unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him, and shouted, "You are the Son of God!"
And he sternly warned them that they should not make him known.
And he went up into the mountain, and called to himself those whom he wanted, and they went to him.
And he appointed twelve, designating them apostles, and that he might send them out to preach,
and to have authority to cast out demons:
And he appointed the Twelve: Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter;
Jacob the son of Zebedee; John, the brother of Jacob, and he surnamed them Boanerges which means, Sons of Thunder;
Andrew; Philip; Bartholomew; Matthew; Thomas; Jacob, the son of Alphaeus; Thaddaeus; Simon the Zealot;
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.
Then he came into a house. The multitude came together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.
When his family heard it, they went out to take charge of him: for they said, "He is out of his mind."
The scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, "He has Beelzebul," and, "By the prince of the demons he casts out the demons."
So he summoned them, and said to them in parables, "How can Satan cast out Satan?
If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
If Satan has risen up against himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end.
But no one can enter into the house of the strong man to plunder, unless he first binds the strong man; and then he will plunder his house.
Truly I tell you, all sins of the sons of men will be forgiven, including their blasphemies with which they may blaspheme;
but whoever may blaspheme against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal judgment"
-because they said, "He has an unclean spirit."
Then his brothers and his mother came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him.
A multitude was sitting around him, and they told him, "Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside looking for you."
And he answered them, saying, "Who are my mother or my brothers?"
Looking around at those who sat around him, he said, "Behold, my mother and my brothers!
For whoever does the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother."