And I saw an angel coming down out of Heaven, having the key of the abyss, and a great chain on his hand.
And he laid hold of the dragon, the old serpent who is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years,
and threw him into the abyss, and shut him up, and sealed over him, that he should not still lead astray the nations, until the thousand years are fulfilled. And after these things, he must be set loose a little time.
And I saw thrones, and they sat on them. And judgment was given to them, and the souls of the ones having been beheaded because of the witness of Jesus, and because of the Word of God, and who had not worshiped the beast nor its image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand. And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
But the rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is the one having part in the first resurrection. The second death has no authority over these, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with Him a thousand years.
And whenever the thousand years are ended, Satan will be set loose out of his prison,
and he will go to mislead the nations in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to assemble them in war, whose number is as the sand of the sea.
And they went up over the breadth of the land and encircled the camp of the saints, and the beloved city. And fire from God came down out of Heaven and burned them down.
And the Devil leading them astray was thrown into the Lake of Fire and Brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet were . And they were tormented day and night forever and ever.
And I saw a great white throne, and the One sitting on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled; and a place was not found for them.
And I saw the dead, the small and the great, standing before God. And books were opened. And another Book was opened, which is the Book of Life. And the dead were judged out of the things written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead in it. And death and Hades gave up the dead in them. And they were each judged according to their works.
And death and Hades were thrown into the Lake of Fire. This is the second death.
And if anyone was not found having been written in the Book of Life, he was thrown into the Lake of Fire.