And as they spoke to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees approached them,
being greatly annoyed because of their teaching the people, and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection of the dead.
And they threw hands on them, and put them in custody for the morrow, for it was now evening.
But many of those who heard the word believed, and the number of the men became about five thousand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, to be assembled in Jerusalem, their rulers, and elders, and scholars,
and Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the high priestly family.
And after placing them in the midst, they inquired, By what power, or in what name, have ye done this?
Then Peter being filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,
if we are examined today about a good deed, of a feeble man, by what this man has been healed,
be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this, this man stands here before you healthy.
This is the stone that was rejected by you who build, which became into the head of the corner.
And salvation is not in any other man, for there is no other name under the heaven, that has been given among men, by which we must be saved.
Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and having perceived that they are illiterate and uneducated men, they marveled. And they recognized them, that they had been with Jesus.
And seeing the man who was healed standing with them, they had nothing to contradict.
But after commanding them to go outside of the council, they conferred among each other,
saying, What will we do to these men? For that indeed a notable sign has happened by them, is apparent to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
But that it may not spread on further among the people, let us threaten them with threats to speak no longer in this name, to not one man.
And having called them, they commanded them entirely, not to utter nor to teach in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John having replied to them, they said, Whether it is right in the sight of God to hearken to you rather than God, judge ye.
For we are not able not to speak what we saw and heard.
And they, having further threatened, released them, finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people. Since all glorified God for that which happened.
For the man was more than forty years old on whom this sign of healing had occurred.
And after being released, they went to their own men, and reported as many things as the chief priests and the elders said to them.
And those who heard lifted up a voice to God with one accord, and said, Thou Master, the God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all things in them.
He who said through the mouth of thy boy David, Why do the nations rage, and the peoples meditate vain things?
The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together, against the Lord, and against his Christ.
For in truth, against thy holy Boy Jesus, whom thou anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, were gathered together,
to do as many things as thy hand and thy purpose predetermined to happen.
And now, Lord, look upon their threats, and grant to thy bondmen with all boldness to speak thy word,
by thy stretching forth thy hand for healing, and signs and wonders to happen through the name of thy holy Boy Jesus.
And when they prayed, the place in which they were assembled was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness.
And the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul. And not even one man said that anything of the things that was possessed by him was his own, but all things were common to them.
And with great power the apostles gave back the testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
For not even any needy was among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses, selling, they brought the proceeds of the things that were sold,
and placed them at the apostles' feet. And it was distributed to each, according as any man had need.
And Joses, who was surnamed by the apostles, Barnabas (which is, being translated, son of encouragement), a Levite, a Cypriot by nationality,
having sold a field that was possessed by him, brought the money and placed it at the apostles' feet.