Furthermore then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Master Yahushua, that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to please יהוה, so ye would abound more and more.
For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Master Yahushua.
For this is the will of יהוה, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication:
That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour;
Not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not יהוה:
That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter: because that יהוה is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified.
For יהוה hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.
He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but יהוה, who hath also given unto us his holy Spirit.
But as touching brotherly love ye need not that I write unto you: for ye yourselves are taught of יהוה to love one another.
And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in all Macedonia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more;
And that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you;
That ye may walk honestly toward them that are without, and that ye may have lack of nothing.
But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope.
For if we believe that Yahushua died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Yahushua will Elohim bring with him.
For this we say unto you by the word of יהוה, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Master shall not prevent them which are asleep.
For Yahushua himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of יהוה: and the dead in the Messiah shall rise first:
Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Master in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Master.
Wherefore comfort one another with these words.