A Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to Him to show to His slaves things which must occur quickly. And He signified by sending through His angel to His slave, John,
who testified of the Word of God and the witness of Jesus Christ, even as many things as he saw.
Blessed is the one reading, and those hearing the words of this prophecy, and keeping the things having been written; for the time is near.
John to the seven churches in Asia: Grace to you, and peace, from the One who is, and who was, and who is coming, and from the seven spirits which are before His throne;
even from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the First-born out of the dead, and the Ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him loving us and washing us from our sins by His blood,
and made us kings and priests to God, even His Father. To Him is the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
"Behold, He comes with the clouds," and "every eye will see Him, and the ones who pierced" Him, and all the tribes of the earth "will wail on account of Him." Yes, Amen. Dan. 7:13; Zech. 12:10
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the Ending, says the Lord, the One who is, and who was, and who is coming, the Almighty.
I, even your brother John, and co-sharer in the affliction, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, came to be in the island being called Patmos because of the Word of God, and because of the witness of Jesus Christ.
I came to be in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,
saying, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last; also, What you see, write in a scroll, and send to the seven churches of Asia: to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamos, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.
And I turned to see the voice which spoke with me.
And having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the seven lampstands One like the Son of man, having been clothed to the feet, and having been girded with a golden girdle at the breasts.
And the hairs of His head were white as white wool, as snow, and His eyes as a flame of fire;
and His feet like burnished brass having been fired in a furnace; and His voice as a sound of many waters;
and having in His right hand seven stars; and a sharp, two-edged sword proceeding out of His mouth, and His face shining as the sun in its power.
And when I saw Him, I fell at His feet, as dead. And He put His right hand on me, saying to me, Do not fear. I am the First and the Last,
and the Living One; and I became dead; and, behold, I am living forever and ever. Amen. And I have the keys to Hades, and of death.
Write what things you saw, and what things are, and what things are about to occur after these things.
The mystery of the seven stars which you saw on My right, and the seven golden lampstands: the seven stars are angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands you saw are seven churches.