For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of God Most High, having met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, also blessed him.
To whom also Abraham divided a tenth of all. Being actually translated, first, king of righteousness, and then also, king of Salem, which is king of peace,
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but having been made like the Son of God, remains a priest continually.
And notice how great this man was, to whom also the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth out of the best spoils.
Now indeed those of the sons of Levi who receive the priesthood have commandment to collect tithes from the people according to the law, that is, of their brothers, although having come out of the loins of Abraham.
But the man who did not descend from them has received tithes from Abraham, and has blessed the man having the promises.
And without all contradiction the inferior is blessed by the superior.
And here indeed, men who die receive tithes, but there, he who is testified about that he lives.
And, so to speak, Levi also, the man who receives tithes, has paid tithes through Abraham,
for he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.
If indeed therefore perfection was through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people had received the law), what further need is there for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek, and not be designated according to the order of Aaron?
For the priesthood being changed, of necessity a change of law also occurs.
For he of whom these things are spoken pertains to another tribe, from which no man has attended to the altar.
For it is evident that our Lord arose out of Judah, regarding which tribe Moses spoke nothing about the priesthood.
And it is still far more evident, if according to the likeness of Melchizedek, there arises another priest,
who has become, not according to a law of a carnal commandment, but according to the power of an indestructible life.
For he testifies, Thou are a priest into the age according to the order of Melchizedek.
For indeed there becomes an annulment of a preceding commandment because of its weakness and uselessness
(for the law made nothing fully perfect), and an introduction of a better hope, through which we approach God.
And inasmuch as it is not without an oath. For actually those who become priests are so without an oath,
but he with an oath, because of him who says to him, The Lord swore and will not change his mind, Thou are a priest into the age according to the order of Melchizedek.
By so much, Jesus has become the surety of a better covenant.
And of course those who have become priests are more, because of being prevented to continue by death,
but he, because of his remaining into the age, has the priesthood unchangeable.
Whereupon he is able also to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, being always alive in order to intercede on their behalf.
For such a high priest is fitting for us, devout, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and having become higher than the heavens.
Who has no need to offer up sacrifices each day, as those high priests, first for his own sins, then for those of the people, for this he did, once, when he offered up himself.
For the law appoints men high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath after the law, a Son who has been fully perfected into the age.