Therefore, laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envyings, and all evil speakings,
as new-born babes, earnestly desire the pure spiritual milk, that you may grow by it,
if; indeed, you have tasted that the Lord is gracious.
Coming to him as to a living stone, rejected indeed by man, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious,
you, also, as living stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, that you may offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
For it is contained in the scripture: Behold, I lay in Zion a chief corner-stone, chosen, precious; and he that believes on him shall not be ashamed.
To you, then, who believe, is this preciousness: but the stone which the builders rejected, has become the head of the corner,
and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense to the disobedient, who stumble at the word because they are disobedient, to which stumbling they were also appointed.
But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a purchased people, that you should show forth the virtues of him who has called you out of darkness into his wonderful light:
who formerly were not a people, but now are the people of God; who had not received mercy, but now have received mercy.
Beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and sojourners, that you keep yourselves from fleshly desires, which war against the soul,
maintaining an honorable mode of life am one the Gentiles, that, inasmuch as they speak against you as evil-doers, they may, on account of your good works which they witness, glorify God in the day of visitation.
Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man, for the Lord’s sake; whether it be to the king, as supreme ruler,
or to governors, as those sent by him for the punishment of evil-doers, and for the praise of those who do well.
For such is the will of God, that by doing good you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men;
as being free, and yet not using your freedom as a cloak for malice, but as servants of God.
Honor all men; love the brotherhood; reverence God; honor the king.
Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the perverse.
For this is praiseworthy, if any one, on account of conscience toward God, endure sorrows, suffering unjustly.
For what praise is due, if, when you are punished for your faults, you endure it patiently? But if, when you do well, and suffer for it, you endure it patiently, this is praiseworthy in the sight of God.
To this, indeed, you have been called; because even Christ suffered for us, leaving you an example, that you should follow his footsteps.
He did no sin, nor was guile found in his mouth.
When he was reviled, he did not revile again; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but committed himself to him that judges righteously.
He himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness. By his stripes you were healed.
For you were like sheep that had gone astray; but now you have returned to the shepherd and bishop of your souls.