Better is the poor that walks in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool.
Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he that hastes with his feet sins.
The foolishness of man perverts his way: and his heart frets against the LORD.
Wealth makes many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaks lies shall not escape.
Many will implore the favour of the prince: and every man is a friend to him that gives gifts.
All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his friends go far from him? he pursues them with words, yet they are lacking to him.
He that gets wisdom loves his own soul: he that keeps understanding shall find good.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaks lies shall perish.
Delight is not suitable for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes.
The discretion of a man defers his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.
The king's wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass.
A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.
House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent wife is from the LORD.
Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.
He that keeps the commandment keeps his own soul; but he that despises his ways shall die.
He that has pity upon the poor lends unto the LORD; and that which he has given will he pay him again.
Chasten your son while there is hope, and let not your soul spare for his crying.
A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if you deliver him, yet you must do it again.
Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that you may be wise in your latter end.
There are many devices in a man's heart; nevertheless the counsel of the LORD, that shall stand.
The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better than a liar.
The fear of the LORD tends to life: and he that has it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.
A slothful man hides his hand in his bosom, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.
Strike a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that has understanding, and he will understand knowledge.
He that wastes his father, and chases away his mother, is a son that causes shame, and brings reproach.
Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causes to go astray from the words of knowledge.
An ungodly witness scorns judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.
Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools.