And Saul, still breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
and asked letters from him to Damascus to the synagogues; so that if he found any of the Way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
But in going, it happened as he drew near to Damascus, even suddenly a light from the heaven shone around him.
And he fell to the earth and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute Me?
And he said, Who are you, lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you persecute. It is hard for you to kick against the goads.
And trembling and astonished, he said, Lord, what will You have me to do? And the Lord said to him, Arise and go into the city, and you shall be told what you must do.
And the men who journeyed with him stood speechless, indeed hearing a voice but seeing no one.
And Saul was lifted up from the earth, his eyes were opened, but he saw no one. But they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus.
And he was three days not seeing, and did not eat or drink.
And there was a certain disciple in Damascus named Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias! And he said, Behold me, Lord.
And the Lord said to him, Arise and go into the street which is called Straight and inquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus. For behold, he is praying,
and has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him so that he might receive his sight.
And Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many of this man, how many evil things he has done to Your saints at Jerusalem.
And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on Your Name.
But the Lord said to him, Go! For this one is a chosen vessel to Me, to bear My name before nations and kings and the sons of Israel.
For I will show him what great things he must suffer for My name's sake.
And Ananias went and entered into the house. And putting his hands on him, he said, Brother Saul, the Lord, Jesus, who appeared to you in the way in which you came, has sent me to you that you might see and be filled with  the Holy Spirit.
And instantly scales as it were fell from his eyes, and he instantly saw again. And rising up, he was baptized.
And taking food, he was strengthened. And Saul was certain days with the disciples in Damascus.
And immediately he proclaimed Christ in the synagogues, that He is the Son of God.
But all who heard him were amazed and said, Is this not he who destroyed those who called on this name in Jerusalem and came here for that reason, that he might bring them bound to the chief priests?
But Saul increased the more in strength and confounded the Jews who lived at Damascus, proving that this One is the Christ.
And after many days had been fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him.
But their plot was known to Saul. And they watched the gates day and night in order to kill him.
Then the disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall in a basket.
And arriving in Jerusalem, Saul attempted to join himself to the disciples. But they were all afraid of him, and did not believe that he was a disciple.
But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and told them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that He had spoken to him, and how he had spoken boldly in Damascus in the name of Jesus.
And he was with them, coming in and going out in Jerusalem.
And he spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and argued with the Hellenists. But they seized him in order to kill him.
But knowing, the brothers brought him down to Caesarea and sent him forth to Tarsus.
Then, indeed, the churches had rest throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria, and having been built up. And having gone on in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were increased.
And it happened, passing through all, Peter also came down to the saints who lived at Lydda.
And there he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had lain eight years on a mattress, paralyzed.
And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you; rise up and spread for yourself! And he arose immediately.
And all who lived at Lydda and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord.
And in Joppa was a certain disciple named Tabitha (which translated is called Dorcas). She was full of good works and kind deeds which she did.
And it happened in those days, becoming sick, she died. And washing her, they laid her in an upper room.
And, because Lydda was near Joppa, hearing that Peter is in it, the disciples sent two men to him, begging him not to delay to come to them.
And rising up, Peter went with them. When he had come, they brought him into the upper room. And all the widows stood beside him, weeping and showing the coats and garments which Dorcas made while she was with them.
And putting them all out, Peter knelt down and prayed. And turning to the body he said, Tabitha, arise! And she opened her eyes. And when she saw Peter, she sat up.
And he gave her his hand and lifted her up. And when he had called the saints and widows, he presented her alive.
And it was known throughout all Joppa. And many believed in the Lord.
And it was many days that he remained in Joppa, with one Simon, a tanner.