And the word of Jehovah was to Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying,
Rise up, go to Nineveh, the great city, and cry out against it; for their evil has come up before Me.
But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from the presence of Jehovah. And he went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going to Tarshish. And he gave its fare and went down into it in order to go with them to Tarshish, from before the face of Jehovah.
But Jehovah hurled a great wind into the sea, and there was a great storm in the sea, and the ship was thought to be broken.
And the sailors were afraid, and each man cried to his god. And they threw out the ship's articles into the sea, to lighten it off of them. But Jonah had gone down into the hold of the ship; and he lay down, and was sound asleep.
And the chief of the seamen came near to him and said to him, What is it to you, O sound sleeper? Rise up and cry out to your God! It may be our god will notice us, and we will not perish.
And they said, each man to his companion, Come and let us cast lots, that we may know on whose account this evil occurred to us. And they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah.
And they said to him, Please tell us on account of whom has this evil occurred to us? What is your work? And from where do you come? What is your country, and of what people are you?
And he said to them, I am a Hebrew. And I fear Jehovah, the God of Heaven, who has made the sea and the dry land.
And the men were terrified with fear and said to him, What is this you have done? For the men knew that he was fleeing from before the face of Jehovah, because he had told them.
And they said to him, What shall we do to you that the sea may be calm from on us? For the sea was going on and being stormy.
And he said to them, Take me up and throw me out into the sea. And the sea will be calm from on you. For I know that this great storm is on you on account of me.
But the men rowed to return to the dry land, but they were not able, for the sea was going on and being stormy against them.
And they cried out to Jehovah, and said, We beseech You, O Jehovah, we beseech You, do not let us perish for this man's life, and do not lay innocent blood on us. For You, O Jehovah, have done as You desired.
And they lifted Jonah up and threw him into the sea. And the sea ceased from its raging.
Then the men feared Jehovah with a great fear and offered a sacrifice to Jehovah, and vowed vows.
And Jehovah had appointed a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.