TAKE heed that ye do not your alms before men, in order to catch their eye: for otherwise ye have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.
Therefore when thou givest alms, sound not a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do, in the synagogues, and in the streets, that they may have glory from men. Verily I say unto you, They receive their reward.
But when thou givest alms, let not thy right hand know what thy left is doing:
that thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father who seeth in secret, will himself reward thee openly.
And when thou prayest, be not as the hypocrites: for they love standing in the synagogues and at the corners of the streets, to pray, that they may make a shew to men. Verily I say unto you, That they have their reward.
But when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and shut thy door, to pray to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father who seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.
And when thou art at prayer, use not vain repetitions, like the heathen: for they imagine that they shall be heard for their much speaking.
Be not ye therefore like them: for your Father knoweth of what things ye have need, before you ask him.
Thus then pray ye: Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil: for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever and ever. Amen!
For if ye forgive men their offences, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:
but if ye forgive not to men their offences, neither will your Father forgive your offences.
And when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites, affecting a gloomy look: for they disfigure their visages, that they may make a shew of fasting to men. Verily I say unto you, That they have their reward.
But when thou keepest a fast, anoint thine head, and wash thy face;
that thou mayest not make a shew of fasting to men, but to thy Father who is in secret: and thy Father who seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where the rust and canker spoil, and where thieves dig through and steal:
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither rust nor canker spoil, and where thieves do not dig through and steal;
for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
The lamp of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be transparent, thy whole body shall be enlightened.
But if thine eye be vitiated, thy whole body will be darkened. If therefore the light which is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!
No man can serve two masters: for he will either hate the one, and love the other; or he will adhere to the one, and disregard the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
For this cause I tell you, Be not anxious about your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life of more value than meat, and the body than raiment?
Look on the birds of the air: for they neither sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are you not of more value than they?
But which of you, by his cares, can add one cubit to his stature?
And why are ye anxious about clothing? Contemplate the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, nor spin:
yet I tell you, Not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these.
If God then so clothe a vegetable of the field, which to-day is, in beauty, and tomorrow is cast into the furnace, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?
Wherefore be under no anxiety, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, With what shall we be clothed?
(for after all these things the heathen seek:) and your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of them all.
But seek ye, in the first place, the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be given you over.
Be not therefore anxious about to-morrow: for tomorrow will provide for its own wants. Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.