This, is the record of the generations of Adam. In the day when God created man, In the likeness of God, made he him:
Male and female, created he them,—and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day they were created.
And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begat [a son] in his likeness after his image,—and called his name Seth:
and the days of Adam, after he begat Seth, were eight hundred years, and he begat sons and daughters.
So all the days of Adam which he lived, were nine hundred and thirty years,—and he died.
And Seth lived a hundred and five years,—and begat Enosh:
and Seth lived, after he begat Enosh, eight hundred and seven years,—and begat sons and daughters:
and all the days of Seth were, nine hundred and I twelve years,—and he died.
And Enosh lived ninety years,—and begat Kenan;
and Enosh lived after he begat Kenan, eight hundred and fifteen years,—and begat sons and daughters;
and all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years,—and he died.
And Kenan, lived seventy years,—and begat Mahalalel;
and Kenan lived after he begat Mahalalel, eight hundred and forty years,—and begat sons and daughters;
and all the days of Kenan were, nine hundred and ten years,—and he died.
And Mahalalel lived sixty-five years,—and begat Jared;
and Mahalalel lived after he begat Jared, eight hundred and thirty years,—and begat sons and daughters;
and all the days of Mahalalel were, eight hundred and ninety-five years,—and he died.
And Jared lived, a hundred and sixty-two years, and begat Enoch;
and Jared lived after he begat Enoch, eight hundred years,—and begat sons and daughters;
and all the days of Jared were, nine hundred and sixty-two years,—and he died.
And Enoch lived sixty-five years,—and begat Methuselah;
and Enoch walked with God, after he begat Methuselah, three hundred years,—and begat sons and daughters;
and all the days of Enoch were, three hundred and sixty-five years;
and Enoch walked with God,—and was not for God had taken him.
And Methuselah lived, a hundred and eighty-seven years,—and begat Lamech;
and Methuselah lived, after he begat Lamech, seven hundred and eighty-two years,—and begat sons and daughters;
and all the days of Methuselah were, nine hundred and sixty-nine years,—and he died.
And Lamech lived, a hundred and eighty-two years,—and begat a son;
and he called his name Noah saying,—This, one shall give us rest from our work, And from the grievous toil of our hands, By reason of the ground which Yahweh hath cursed,
And Lamech lived, after he begat Noah, five hundred and ninety-five years,—and begat sons and daughters;
and all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy-seven years,—and he died.
And Noah was five hundred years old,—and Noah begat Shem, Ham and Japheth.