And there was given unto me a reed, like unto a staff, saying—Rise, and measure the Sanctuary of God, and the altar, and them who are doing homage therein;
and, the court that is outside the Sanctuary, cast thou outside, and do not measure, it, because it hath been given unto the nations, and, the holy city, shall they tread under foot, forty and two months.
And I will give unto my two witnesses, that they shall prophesy, a thousand two hundred and sixty days, arrayed in sackcloth.
These, are the two olive-trees, and the two lamps, which, before the Lord of the earth, do stand.
And, if any one, upon them, chooseth to inflict injury, fire, cometh forth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies; and, if anyone shall choose, upon them, to inflict injury, thus, must he be slain.
These, have authority to shut heaven, in order that, no rain, be moistening in the days of their prophesying; and, authority, have they, over the waters, to be turning them into blood, and to smite the land, with any manner of plague, as often as they will.
And, as soon as they have completed their witnessing, the wild-beast that is to come up out of the abyss, will make war with them, and overcome them, and slay them.
And their dead bodies [lie] upon the broadway of the great city, the which is called, spiritually, Sodom and Egypt, where, their Lord also was crucified.
And [some] of the peoples, and tribes, and tongues, and nations, see, their dead bodies three days and a half, and, their dead bodies, do they not suffer to be put into a tomb.
And, they who are dwelling upon the earth, rejoice over them, and make merry, and, gifts, will they send one to another,—because, these two prophets, tormented them that were dwelling upon the earth.
And, after [the] three days and a half, a spirit of life from God, entered within them, and they stood upon their feet; and, great fear, fell upon them who were beholding them.
And they heard a loud voice out of heaven, saying unto them—Come up hither! And they went up into heaven, in the cloud, and, their enemies, beheld them.
And, in that hour, there came to be a great earthquake; and, the tenth of the city, fell, and there were slain, in the earthquake, names of men—seven thousand. And, the rest, became, greatly afraid, and gave glory unto the God of heaven.
The second Woe, hath passed away,—lo! the third Woe, cometh speedily.
And, the seventh messenger, sounded; and there came to be loud voices in heaven, saying—The kingdom of the world, hath become [the kingdom] of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign unto the ages of ages.
And, the twenty-four elders who, before God, do sit upon their thrones, fell down upon their faces, and rendered homage unto God,
saying—We give thanks unto thee, O Lord God, the Almighty, Who is, and Who was; because thou hast taken thy great power, and hast become king.
And, the nations, were angered; and thine anger, came, and the fit time of the dead, to be vindicated, and to give their reward unto thy servants the prophets, and unto the saints, and unto them who revere thy name—the small and the great, and to despoil them who were despoiling the earth.
And the sanctuary of God which is in heaven, was opened, and the ark of his covenant in his sanctuary, appeared, and there came to be lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.