Then said God unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there,—and make there an altar, to the GOD who appeared unto thee, when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.
And Jacob said unto his house, and unto all who were with him,—Put away the gods of the alien which are in your midst, and purify yourselves, and change your garments;
And let us arise, and go up to Beth-el,—that I may make there an altar to the GOD who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way that I went.
So they gave unto Jacob all the gods of the alien which were in their hand, and the earrings which were in their ears,—and Jacob hid them under the oak, which was by Shechem.
And they brake up,—and it came to pass that the terror of God, was on the cities which were round about them, so that they pursued not after the sons of Jacob.
And Jacob came in towards Luz, which was in the land of Canaan, the same, is Beth-el,—he and all the people who were with him.
And he built there an altar, and called the place El-Beth-el,—because, there, God revealed himself unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother,
And Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse died, and was buried below Beth-el, under the oak,—so the name thereof was called, Allon-bacuth.
And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came in from Padan-aram,—and blessed him.
And God said to him, Thy name, is Jacob,—Thy name shall no longer be called Jacob But, Israel, shall be thy name. So he called his name, Israel.
And God said to him—I, am GOD Almighty! Be fruitful and multiply, A nation, and a multitude of nations shall spring from thee,—And, kings, from thy loins, shall come forth;
And, the land which I gave to Abraham and to Isaac, To thee, will I give it,—And to thy seed after thee, will I give the land.
And God went up from him at the place where he had spoken with him.
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone,—and he poured out thereon a drink-offering, and poured thereon oil.
And Jacob called the name of the place where God had spoken with him, Beth-el.
Then brake they up from Beth-el, and it came to pass when there was yet a stretch of country, to enter into Ephrath, that Rachel was in childbirth, and had hard-labour in her child-birth.
So it came to pass when she was in hard-labour in her child-birth, that the midwife said to her—Do not fear, for this also of thine, is, a son.
And it came to pass when her soul was going forth—for she died, that she called his name Ben-oni,—but, his father, called him, Ben-jamin.
So Rachel died,—and was buried on the way to Ephrath, the same, is Bethlehem.
And Jacob set up a pillar, over her grave,—the same, is—The Pillar of the Grave of Rachel until this day.
Then Israel brake up,—and spread his tent at a distance from Migdal Eder.
And it came to pass while Israel inhabited that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father’s concubine; and Israel heard of it. And so the Sons of Israel came to be Twelve.
The sons of Leah, the firstborn of Jacob, Reuben,—And Simeon and Levi and Judah, and Issachar and Zebulon:
The sons of Rachel, Joseph and Benjamin:
And the sons of Bilhah, handmaid of Rachel, Dan, and Naphtali:
And the sons of Zilpah, handmaid of Leah, Gad and Asher: These, are the sons of Jacob, who were born to him, in Padan-aram.
Then came Jacob unto Isaac his father, to Mamre, the city of Arba,—the same, is Hebron, where had sojourned Abraham and Isaac.
And the days of Isaac came to be—a hundred and eighty years.
And Isaac breathed his last, and died and was added unto his people, old, and satisfied with days,—and Esau and Jacob his sons buried him.