The beginning of the gospel of Jesus, the Christ, Son of God,
as it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.
John baptized in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance for remission of sins.
And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea and those of Jerusalem and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.
John was clothed with camel's hair and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he ate locusts and wild honey
and preached, saying, There comes one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
I indeed have baptized you with water, but he shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth [a city] of Galilee and was baptized of John in the Jordan.
And as soon as he was come out of the water, [John] saw the heavens opened and the Spirit like a dove descending [and resting] upon him;
and there came a voice from heaven, [saying], Thou art my dear Son, in whom I delight.
And immediately the Spirit drove him into the wilderness.
And he was there in the wilderness forty [days and forty nights] and was tempted of Satan and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered unto him.
Now after John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom of God
and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the Kingdom of God is at hand; repent ye and believe the Gospel.
Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers.
And Jesus said unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And straightway they forsook their nets and followed him.
And when he had gone a little further from there, he saw James the [son] of Zebedee and John his brother, who also were in the ship mending their nets.
And straightway he called them; and leaving their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, they went after him.
And they entered into Capernaum, and straightway on the sabbath days he entered into the synagogue and taught.
And they marvelled at his learning, for he taught them as one that had power with him, and not as the scribes.
And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out,
saying, Let [us] alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent, and come out of him.
And the unclean spirit tore him and cried with a loud voice and came out of him.
And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? What new doctrine [is] this? for he commands the unclean spirits with power, and they obey him.
And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region round about Galilee.
And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
But Simon's mother-in-law lay sick of a fever, and soon they told him of her.
And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up; and the fever left her by and by, and she ministered unto them.
In the evening, when the sun was down, they brought unto him all that were diseased and those that were possessed with devils.
And all the city was gathered together at the door.
And he healed many that were sick of diverse diseases and cast out many devils and suffered not the devils to speak because they knew him.
And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out and departed into a solitary place and prayed there.
And Simon and those that were with him followed after him.
And when they had found him, they said unto him, All [men] seek for thee.
And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns that I may preach there also, for truly I came forth for that purpose.
And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and cast out devils.
And a leper came to him, beseeching him and kneeling down to him and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And Jesus, having mercy on him, put forth [his] hand and touched him and said unto him, I will; be thou clean.
And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was clean.
And he straitly charged him and forthwith sent him away
and said unto him, See thou say nothing to any man, but go, show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
But he went out and began to publish [it] much and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places; and they came to him from every quarter.: