And entering into the boat, He passed over and came to His own city.
And, behold! They were bringing a paralytic lying on a cot to Him. And seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralytic, Be comforted, child. Your sins have been forgiven you.
And, behold, some of the scribes said within themselves, This one blasphemes.
And seeing their thoughts, Jesus said, Why do you think evil in your hearts?
For what is easier, to say, Your sins have been forgiven you; or to say, Rise up and walk?
But that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins, then He said to the paralytic, Rising up, lift up your cot and go to your house.
And rising up, he went away to his house.
And seeing, the crowds marveled, and they glorified God who gave such authority to men.
And passing from there, Jesus saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office. And He said to him, Follow Me. And rising up, he followed Him.
And it happened as He reclined in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners having come, these were reclining with Jesus and His disciples.
And seeing, the Pharisees said to His disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?
But Jesus hearing, He said to them, The ones who are strong have no need of a physician, but the ones who are sick.
But going, learn what this is , "I desire mercy and not sacrifice." For I did not come to call righteous ones , but sinners to repentance. Hos. 6:6
Then the disciples of John came to Him, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast much, and Your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, Can the sons of the bridechamber mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will have been taken from them, and then they will fast.
But no one puts a piece of new cloth onto an old garment. For its filling up takes away from the garment, and a worse tear takes its place.
Nor do they put new wine into old skins; otherwise, the skins are burst, and the wine pours out, and the skins will be ruined. But they put new wine into fresh skins, and both are preserved together.
As He spoke these things to them, behold, coming up a ruler bowed before Him, saying, My daughter has just now died; but coming lay Your hand on her, and she will live.
And rising up, Jesus and His disciples followed him.
And behold, a woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years came near behind Him, and touched the fringe of His robe.
For she said within herself, If only I shall touch His robe, I will be cured.
But turning and seeing her, Jesus said, Be comforted, daughter; your faith has healed you. And the woman was healed from that hour.
And coming into the house of the ruler, and seeing the flute-players and the crowd causing a tumult,
Jesus said to them, Go back, for the little girl has not died, but she sleeps. And they laughed at Him.
But when the crowd had been put out, entering He took hold of her hand, and the little girl rose up.
And this report went out into all that land.
And Jesus passing on from there, two blind ones followed Him, crying and saying, Have pity on us, Son of David.
And coming into the house, the blind ones came near to Him. And Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? And they said to Him, Yes, Lord.
Then He touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith let it be to you.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus strictly ordered them, saying, See, let no one know.
But going out, they made Him known in all that land.
And as they were going out, behold, they brought to Him a dumb man who had been possessed by a demon.
And the demon being cast out, the dumb one spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, Never was it seen this way in Israel.
But the Pharisees said, He casts out the demons by the ruler of the demons.
And Jesus went about all the cities and the villages teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every weakness of body among the people.
And seeing the crowds, He was moved with pity for them, because they were tired and scattered, like sheep having no shepherd.
Then He said to His disciples, The harvest truly is great, but the workers few.
Pray then that the Lord of the harvest may send out workers into His harvest.