I adjure [thee] before God, and Christ Jesus—Who is about to be judging living and dead,—both as to his forthshining and his kingdom,
Proclaim the word, take thy position—in season, out of season,—convince, rebuke, encourage,—with all long-suffering and teaching.
For there will be a season—when, the healthful teaching, they will not endure, but, according to their own covetings, will, unto themselves, heap up teachers, because they have an itching ear,
And, from the truth, indeed, their ear, will they turn away, while, unto stories, they will turn themselves aside.
But, thou,—be sober in all things, suffer hardship, do, the work, of an evangelist, thy ministry, completely fulfill;
For, I, already, am being poured out as a drink-offering, and, the season of my release, is at hand,—
The noble contest, have I contested, the race, have I finished, the faith, have I kept:
Henceforth, lieth by for me—the crown, of righteousness, which the Lord will render unto me in that, day,—The righteous judge,—Ye, not alone unto me, but unto all them also who have loved his forthshining.
Give diligence to come unto me speedily,
For, Demas, hath forsaken me, having loved the present age, and hath journeyed unto Thessalonica; Crescens unto Galatia, Titus unto Dalmatia:
Luke, alone is with me. Receiving, Mark, back, bring him with thyself, for he is very useful to me for ministering;
and, Tychicus, have I sent unto Ephesus.
The cloak that I left in Troas, with Carpus, when thou comest, bring; and the scrolls, especially, the parchments.
Alexander the coppersmith, of much baseness towards me, hath given proof,—the Lord will render unto him according to his works.—
Of whom, be, thou also, on thy guard, for he hath greatly withstood our words.
In my first defence, no man, came in to help me, but, all, forsook me,—unto them, may it not be reckoned!—
But, the Lord, stood by me, and empowered me, in order that, through me, the proclamation, might be fully made, and, all the nations, might hear; and I was delivered out of the mouth of a lion:—
The Lord will rescue me from every wicked work, and will bring me safe into his heavenly kingdom: unto whom be the glory, unto the ages of ages. Amen.
Salute Prisca and Aquila and the house of Onesiphorus.
Erastus, remained in Corinth; but, Trophimus, I left at Miletus, sick.
Give diligence to come, before winter. There salute thee—Eubulus, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and [all] the brethren.
The Lord, be with thy spirit. Favour, be with you.