Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
Through faith we understand that the ages were framed by a word of God, so that the things seen should not have come into being out of the things that appear.
By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts. And by it he, being dead, yet speaks.
By faith Enoch was translated so as not to see death, and he was not found, because God had translated him; for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.
But without faith it is impossible to please Him, for he who comes to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him.
By faith Noah, having been warned by God of things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house, by which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out into a place which he was afterward going to receive for an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he went.
By faith he lived in the land of promise as in a strange country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of the same promise with him.
For he looked for a city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God.
Through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged Him who had promised to be faithful.
Because of this came into being from one, and that from one as good as dead, seed even as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as innumerable as the sand which is by the seashore.
These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off. And they were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.
For they who say such things declare plainly that they seek a fatherland.
And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from which they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned.
But now they stretch forth to a better fatherland, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them.
By faith Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac. And he who had received the promises offered up his only-begotten son,
of whom it was said that in Isaac your Seed shall be called,
concluding that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead, from where he even received him, in a figure.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph and worshiped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
By faith, Joseph dying remembered concerning the Exodus of the sons of Israel and gave orders concerning his bones.
By faith Moses, having been born, was hidden three months by his parents, because they saw he was a beautiful child. And they were not afraid of the king's commandments.
Having become great, Moses by faith refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a time,
esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he was looking to the reward.
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing Him who is invisible.
Through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest He who destroyed the first-born should touch them.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians attempting to do were drowned.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been compassed seven days.
By faith the harlot Rahab did not perish with those who did not believe, when she had received the spies with peace.
And what more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah; also David, and Samuel and the prophets,
who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the strangers.
Women received their dead raised to life again, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings; yes, more, of bonds and imprisonments.
They were stoned, they were sawed in two, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented.
The world was not worthy of them. They wandered in deserts and mountains and dens and caves of the earth.
And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, did not receive the promise,
for God had provided some better thing for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.