He that loueth instruction, loueth knowledge: but he that hateth correction, is a foole.
A good man getteth fauour of the Lord: but the man of wicked immaginations will hee condemne.
A man cannot be established by wickednesse: but the roote of the righteous shall not be mooued.
A vertuous woman is the crowne of her husband: but she that maketh him ashamed, is as corruption in his bones.
The thoughtes of the iust are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceitfull.
The talking of the wicked is to lye in waite for blood: but the mouth of the righteous will deliuer them.
God ouerthroweth the wicked, and they are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be commended for his wisedome: but the froward of heart shalbe despised.
He that is despised, and is his owne seruant, is better then he that boasteth himselfe and lacketh bread.
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the mercies of the wicked are cruell.
He that tilleth his lande, shalbe satisfied with bread: but he that followeth the idle, is destitute of vnderstanding.
The wicked desireth the net of euils: but the roote of the righteous giueth fruite.
The euill man is snared by the wickednesse of his lips, but the iust shall come out of aduersitie.
A man shalbe satiate with good things by the fruite of his mouth, and the recompence of a mans hands shall God giue vnto him.
The way of a foole is right in his owne eyes: but he that heareth counsell, is wise.
A foole in a day shall be knowen by his anger: but he that couereth shame, is wise.
He that speaketh trueth, will shewe righteousnes: but a false witnes vseth deceite.
There is that speaketh wordes like the prickings of a sworde: but the tongue of wise men is health.
The lip of trueth shall be stable for euer: but a lying tongue varieth incontinently.
Deceite is in the heart of them that imagine euill: but to the counsellers of peace shall be ioye.
There shall none iniquitie come to the iust: but the wicked are full of euill.
The lying lips are an abomination to the Lord: but they that deale truely are his delite.
A wise man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of the fooles publisheth foolishnes.
The hand of the diligent shall beare rule: but the idle shalbe vnder tribute.
Heauines in the heart of man doeth bring it downe: but a good worde reioyceth it.
The righteous is more excellent then his neighbour: but the way of the wicked will deceiue them.
The deceitfull man rosteth not, that hee tooke in hunting: but the riches of the diligent man are precious.
Life is in the way of righteousnesse, and in that path way there is no death.