O Jehovah, thou have searched me, and known.
Thou know my sitting down and my rising up. Thou understand my thought afar off.
Thou search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O Jehovah, thou know it altogether.
Thou have beset me behind and before, and laid thy hand upon me.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high, I cannot attain to it.
Where shall I go from thy Spirit? Or where shall I flee from thy presence?
If I ascend up into heaven, thou are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, thou are there.
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the outermost parts of the sea,
even there thy hand shall lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.
If I say, Surely the darkness shall overwhelm me, and the light around me shall be night,
even the darkness hides not from thee, but the night shines as the day. The darkness and the light are both alike to thee.
For thou formed my inward parts. Thou covered me in my mother's womb.
I will give thanks to thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are thy works, and that my soul knows right well.
My frame was not hidden from thee, when I was made in secret, curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.
Thine eyes saw my unformed substance, and in thy book they were all written, even the days that were ordained, when as yet there was none of them.
How precious also are thy thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them!
I count them; they are more in number than the sand. When I awake, I am still with thee.
Surely thou will kill the wicked, O God. Depart from me therefore, ye bloodthirsty men.
For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take it in vain.
Do I not hate them, O Jehovah, who hate thee? And am I not grieved with those who rise up against thee?
I hate them with perfect hatred. They have become my enemies.
Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me, and know my thoughts,
and see if there is any wicked way in me. And lead me in the way everlasting.