"Do not judge, so that you won't be judged.
For with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you.
And why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not consider the log that is in your own eye?
Or how will you tell your brother, 'Let me remove the speck from your eye;' and behold, the log is in your own eye?
You hypocrite! First remove the log out of your own eye, and then you can see clearly to remove the speck out of your brother's eye.
"Do not give that which is holy to the dogs, neither throw your pearls before the pigs, lest perhaps they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces.
"Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you.
For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.
Or who is there among you, who, if his son will ask him for bread, will give him a stone?
Or if he will ask for a fish, who will give him a serpent?
If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!
Therefore whatever you desire for men to do to you, you shall also do to them; for this is the Law and the Prophets.
"Enter in by the narrow gate; for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter in by it.
How narrow is the gate, and difficult is the way that leads to life! Few are those who find it.
"Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves.
By their fruits you will know them. Do you gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
Even so, every good tree produces good fruit; but the corrupt tree produces evil fruit.
A good tree cannot produce evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce good fruit.
Every tree that does not grow good fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.
Therefore, by their fruits you will know them.
Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven; but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Many will tell me in that day, 'Lord, Lord, did not we prophesy in your name, in your name cast out demons, and in your name do many mighty works?'
And then I will tell them, 'I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity.'
"Everyone therefore who hears these words of mine, and does them, will be compared to a wise man, who built his house on a rock.
And the rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock.
And everyone who hears these words of mine, and does not do them will be like a foolish man, who built his house on the sand.
And the rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it fell-and great was its fall."
And it happened, when Jesus had finished saying these things, that the multitudes were astonished at his teaching,
for he taught them with authority, and not like their scribes.