And when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethphage and Bethany, toward the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples,
and said to them, Go into the village opposite you. And going into it, at once you will find a colt tied, on which no one of men has sat. Untying it, bring it .
And if anyone says to you, Why do you do this? say, The Lord has need of it. And he will at once send it here.
And they departed and found the colt tied at the door outside, by the crossway; and they untied it.
And some of those standing there said to them, What are you doing, untying the colt?
And they said to them as Jesus commanded, and they let them go.
And they led the colt to Jesus. And they threw their garments on it, and He sat on it.
And many spread their garments on the highway, and others were cutting branches from the trees and were spreading them on the highway.
And those going before, and those following after, were crying out, saying, Hosanna! "Blessed is the One coming in the name of the Lord!" Psa. 118:25, 26
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!
And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple. And having looked around at all things, the hour already being late, He went out to Bethany with the Twelve.
And on the morrow, they going out from Bethany, He hungered.
And seeing afar off a fig tree having leaves, He went toward it , if perhaps He would find anything on it. And coming on it, He found nothing except leaves, for it was not the season of figs.
And answering, Jesus said to it, Let no one eat fruit of you any more forever. And His disciples heard.
And they came to Jerusalem. And entering into the temple, Jesus began to throw out those selling and buying in the temple; also He overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those selling the doves.
And He did not allow any to carry a vessel through the temple.
And He taught, saying to them, Has it not been written, "My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations." "But you have made it a den of robbers."? Isa. 56:7; Jer. 7:11
And the scribes and the chief priests heard. And they sought how they might destroy Him, for they feared Him, because all the crowd was astonished at His doctrine.
And when evening came, He went outside the city.
And passing along early, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots.
And remembering, Peter said to Him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which You cursed has withered.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Have faith of God.
For truly I say to you, Whoever says to this mountain, Be taken up and be thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will happen, it will be to him, whatever he says.
Therefore I say to you, All things, whatever you ask, praying, believe that you will receive, and it will be to you.
And when you stand praying, if you have anything against anyone, forgive it , so that your Father in Heaven may also forgive your sins.
But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father in Heaven forgive your sins.
And they came again to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to Him.
And they said to Him, By what authority do you do these things? And who gave you this authority that you do these things?
And answering, Jesus said to them, I will also ask you one thing, and answer Me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things:
The baptism of John, was it from Heaven, or from men? Answer Me.
And they argued to themselves, saying, If we say, From Heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him?
But if we say, From men, they feared the people. For all held that John really was a prophet.
And answering, they said to Jesus, We do not know. And answering, Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.