But working together, we also call on you not to receive the grace of God in vain.
For He says, "In an acceptable time I heard you, and in a day of salvation I helped you." Behold, now is the acceptable time! Behold, now is the day of salvation! Isa. 49:8
We are not giving a cause of stumbling, in nothing, that the ministry may not be blamed,
but in everything commending ourselves as God's servants, in much patience, in afflictions, in emergencies, in difficulties,
in stripes, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in fastings,
in pureness, in knowledge, in longsuffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in unfeigned love,
in the word of truth, in the power of God, through the weapons of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
through glory and dishonor, through evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true;
as unknown, and yet well known, as dying, and yet , look, we live; as flogged, and yet not put to death;
as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet enriching many; as having nothing, yet possessing all things.
Our mouth is opened to you, Corinthians, our heart has been made larger.
You are not restrained in us, but you are restrained in your own bowels.
But for the same reward, (I speak as to children), you also be made larger.
Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership does righteousness have with lawlessness? And what fellowship does light have with darkness?
And what agreement does Christ have with Belial? Or what part does a believer have with an unbeliever?
And what agreement does a temple of God have with idols? For you are a temple of the living God, even as God said, "I will" dwell in them and "walk among them , and I will be their God, and they shall be My people." Lev. 26:12; Ezek. 37:27
Because of this, "come out from among them" "and be separated," says the Lord, "and do not touch the unclean thing," and I will receive you. Isa. 52:11
"And I will be a Father to you, and you will be sons" and daughters to Me, says the Lord Almighty. 2 Sam. 7:8, 14; Isa. 43:6