Come now! ye wealthy! Weep ye, howling, for your hardships which are coming upon you:
Your wealth, hath rotted, and, your garments, have become, moth-eaten,—
Your gold and silver, have rusted away, and, their rust, shall be, witness against you, and shall eat your flesh, as fire! Ye have laid up treasure in days of extremity:—
Lo, the wage of the workers who have out down your fields—that which hath been kept back, by you, is crying out; and, the outcries of them who reaped, into the ears of the Lord of hosts, have entered:
Ye have luxuriated upon the land, and run riot, ye have pampered your hearts in a day of slaughter;
Ye sentenced—ye murdered the Righteous one! Is he not arraying himself against you?
Be patient, therefore, brethren, until the Presence of the Lord:—Lo! the husbandman, awaiteth the precious fruit of the earth, having patience for it, until it receive the early and the latter rain:
Be, ye also, patient, Stablish your hearts, because, the Presence of the Lord, hath drawn near.
Be not sighing, brethren, one against another, lest ye be judged,—Lo! the Judge, before the doors, is standing.
An example, take ye, brethren, of distress and patience,—the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord.
Lo! we pronounce them happy who have endured;—Of the endurance of Job, ye have heard, and, the end of the Lord, have ye seen,—that, of much tender affection, is the Lord, and full of compassion,
But, before all things, my brethren, do not swear,—either by heaven, or by the earth, or by any other oath; but let your Yea be yea, and your Nay nay,—lest, under judgment, ye fall.
In distress, is any among you? Let him pray; Cheerful, is any? Let him strike the strings;
Sick, is any among you? Let him call unto him the elders of the assembly, and let them pray for him, anointing him with oil in the name [of the Lord];—
And, the prayer of faith, shall save the exhausted one, and the Lord will raise him up, and, if he have committed, sins, it shall be forgiven him.
Be openly confessing, therefore, one to another, your sins, and be praying in each other’s behalf,—that ye may be healed. Much availeth, the supplication of a righteous man, when it is energised:
Elijah, was, a man, affected like us; and he earnestly prayed that there might be no moisture, and there was no moisture on the land, for three years and six months,—
And, again, he prayed, and, the heaven, gave, rain, and, the land, shot up her fruit.
My brethren! If one among you be led to err from the truth, and one turn him back,
Be ye taking note—that, he that turneth back a sinner out of the error of his way—will save his soul out of death, and hide a multitude of sins.