And he said unto his disciples:—It is, impossible, that occasions of stumbling should not come, notwithstanding, alas! for him through whom they do come:
It profiteth him, if, a mill-stone, is hung about his neck, and he is cast into the sea, than that he cause, one, of these little ones, to stumble.
Be taking heed to yourselves,—If thy brother sin, rebuke him, and, if he repent, forgive him;
Even if, seven times a day, he sin against thee, and, seven times, turn to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him.
And the apostles said unto the Lord—Bestow on us faith!
And the Lord said—If ye have faith like a grain of mustard-seed, ye should be saying unto [this] mulberry-tree—Be uprooted! and be planted in the sea,—and it should obey you.
But, who from among you, having, a servant, plowing or keeping sheep, when he hath come in out of the field, will say to him—Straightway, come, and recline;—
on the contrary, will not say to him—Make somewhat ready, that I may dine,—and, girding thyself, be ministering unto me, until I have eaten and drunk; and, after these things, thou, shalt eat and drink?
Doth he offer thanks unto the servant, because he hath done the things enjoined?
Thus, ye also, when ye have done all the things enjoined upon you, say—Unprofitable servants, are we,—What we were bound to do, we have done!
And it came to pass, during the journey unto Jerusalem, that, he, was going through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
And, as he was entering into a certain village, there met him ten leprous men, who stood still, afar off;
and, they, lifted up a voice, saying—Jesus! Master! have mercy on us!
And, beholding, he said unto them—Go your way, and show yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, as they withdrew, they were cleansed.
But, one from among them, beholding that he was healed, returned, with a loud voice, glorifying God,—
and fell prostrate at his feet, giving him thanks; and, he, was a Samaritan.
And Jesus, answering, said—Were not, the ten, cleansed? [but,] where, are, the nine?
Have none been found returning to give glory to God, save this one of another race?
And he said unto him—Arise and go thy way: thy faith, hath saved thee.
And, being questioned by the Pharisees, When cometh the kingdom of God? he answered them and said—The kingdom of God cometh not with narrow watching;
Neither shall they say—Lo, here! or, There. For lo! the kingdom of God, is, among you.
But he said unto the disciples—There will come days—when ye will long to see, one of the days of the Son of Man, and shall not see.
And they will say unto you, Lo there! or, Lo here! Do not [depart, and do not] pursue.
For, just as, the lightning, flashing out of the one part under heaven, unto the other part under heaven, shineth, so, shall be, the Son of Man.
But, first, he must needs suffer, many things, and be rejected by this generation.
And, as it came to pass in the days of Noah, so, will it be, even in the days of the Son of Man:
They were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were being given in marriage,—until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
In like manner, as it came to pass in the days of Lot, They were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building,—
But, on the day Lot came out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all:—
According to the same things, will it be on the day the Son of Man is revealed.
In that day, he that shall be on the housetop, and his utensils in the house, let him not go down, to take them away! And, he that is in the field, in like manner, let him not turn unto the things behind,
Bear in mind the wife of Lot! Whosoever shall seek to make his life his own, shall lose it,
But, whosoever shall lose it, shall give it a living birth.
I say unto you—On the selfsame night, there shall be two men on [one] bed,—the one, shall be taken near, and, the other, left behind;
There shall be two women grinding together,—the one, shall be taken near, and, the other, left behind.

And, answering, they say unto him—Where, Lord? And, he, said unto them—Where the body is, there, the vultures also, will be gathered together.