And Saul spoke to his son Jonathan, and to all his servants, to kill David.
And Saul's son Jonathan delighted exceedingly in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, My father Saul is seeking to kill you. And, now, please be on guard in the morning, and you shall stay in the secret place, and shall hide.
And I, I will go out and will stand by my father's side in the field where you are . And I will speak of you to my father, and shall see what it is , and will tell you.
And Jonathan spoke good of David to his father Saul, and said to him, Do not let the king sin against his servant, against David, because he has not sinned against you; also because his works for you are very good.
Yea, he has put his life in his hand and killed the Philistine And Jehovah worked a great deliverance for all Israel. You saw it and rejoiced. And why do you sin against innocent blood, to put David to death for no reason?
And Saul listened to Jonathan's voice, and Saul swore, As Jehovah lives he shall not die.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as yesterday and the day before.
And there was war again. And David went out and fought against the Philistines, and struck among them with a great slaughter. And they fled from his face.
And the evil spirit from Jehovah was on Saul. And he was sitting in his house, and his spear in his hand. And David was playing with the hand.
And Saul tried to strike with the spear through David and through the wall. But he burst forth from Saul's presence. And he struck the spear through the wall. And David fled, and escaped during that night.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house to watch him, and to kill him in the morning. And his wife Michal told David, saying, If you do not escape with your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed.
And Michal made David go down through the window. And he went, and fled, and escaped.
And Michal took an image and laid it on the bed; and she put the quilt of goat's hair at his head-place, and covered with a spread.
And Saul sent messengers to take David. And she said, He is sick.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, to kill him.
And the messengers came in. And, behold, the image was on the bed, and the quilt of goat's hair was at his head-place.
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you deceived me this way, that you have sent away my enemy, and he has escaped? And Michal said to Saul, He said to me, Send me away; why should I kill you?
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he went, he and Samuel, and they lived in Naioth.
And it was told to Saul, saying, Behold, David is in Naioth in Ramah.
And Saul sent messengers to take David. And they saw the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them. And the Spirit of God came on Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.
And they told Saul, and he sent other messengers. And they also prophesied. And again Saul sent messengers, a third time. And they also prophesied.
And he went, he also, to Ramah, and came to the great well in Sechu. And Saul asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, in Naioth in Ramah.
And he went there, to Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God was on him, him also. And going on, he went and prophesied until he came into Naioth in Ramah.
And he stripped off his garments, he also, and he prophesied before Samuel, even he. And he fell down disrobed all that day and all that night. Because of this they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?