And it happened, when the kingdom of Rehoboam was settled, and when he was strong, he forsook the law of Jehovah, and all Israel with him.
And it happened in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak the king of Egypt came against Jerusalem because they had acted unfaithfully against Jehovah.
He came with a thousand and two hundred chariots, and with sixty thousand horsemen. And there was no counting the people who came with him out of Egypt: Lubim, Sukkiim, and Ethiopians.
And he captured the cities of defense in Judah and came to Jerusalem.
And Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah who had gathered to Jerusalem from the face of Shishak. And he said to them, So says Jehovah, You have forsaken Me; and I also have forsaken you in the hand of Shishak.
And the leaders of Israel and the king were humbled. And they said, Jehovah is righteous.
And when Jehovah saw that they were humbled, the word of Jehovah came to Shemaiah, saying, They have been humbled. I will not destroy them, and I will give to them a little deliverance. And I will not pour out My fury on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
But they shall become his servants, and they shall know My service, and the service of the kingdoms of the lands.
And Shishak the king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king's house. He took all, and he took the golden shields that Solomon had made.
And king Rehoboam made bronze shields in their place, and deposited them into the hand of the chiefs of the runners who kept the gate of the king's house.
And it happened, from the time the king went to the house of Jehovah, the runners came in and lifted them up, and brought them back to the guard room.
And when he was humbled, the wrath of Jehovah turned away from him, so as not to destroy him completely. And also good things were found in Judah.
And king Rehoboam made himself strong in Jerusalem, and reigned. For Rehoboam was a son of forty one years when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that Jehovah had chosen to put His name there, out of all the tribes of Israel. And his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
And he did the evil, for he had not resolved in his heart to seek Jehovah.
And the acts of Rehoboam, the first and the last, are they not written in the records of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer as to genealogy? And the wars of Rehoboam and Jeroboam lasted all their days.
And Rehoboam lay with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David. And his son Abijah reigned in his place.