Therefore I solemnly witness before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is going to judge the living and the dead according to His appearance and His kingdom,
preach the Word, be instant in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine.
For the time will be when they will not endure sound doctrine, but they will heap up teachers to themselves according to their own lusts, tickling the ear.
And they will turn away their ears from the truth and will be turned to myths.
But you watch in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, fully carry out your ministry."
For I am already being poured out, and the time of my release is here.
I have fought a good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith.
Now there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that Day; and not to me only, but also to all those who love His appearing.
Make haste to come to me quickly.
For Demas has forsaken me, having loved this present world, and he has departed to Thessalonica. Crescens went to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is profitable to me for the ministry.
And I sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
When you come, bring the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, and the books, especially the parchments.
Alexander the coppersmith showed many evil things to me. The Lord will give to him according to his works.
You also should beware of him, for he has greatly withstood our words.
At my first answer no one was beside me, but all deserted me. May it not be laid to their charge.
But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, that through me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the nations might hear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.
And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work and will preserve me for His heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila and the household of Onesiphorus.
Erastus stayed at Corinth, but Trophimus I left sick at Miletus.
Try to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers.
May the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.