Now it came to pass after this that Nahash the king of the sons of Ammon, died, and his son reigned in his stead.
And David said, I will show mercy unto Hanun, the son of Nahash, because his father showed mercy to me. And David sent ambassadors to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants of David came into the land of the sons of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort him.
But the princes of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun, Does it seem unto thee that David honours thy father, that he has sent comforters unto thee? Are not his servants come unto thee to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land?
Then Hanun took David's servants and shaved them, and cut off their garments in half, exposing their buttocks and sent them away.
Then they left, and it was told David how the men were served. And he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards are grown and [then] return.
And when the sons of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the sons of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen out of Syria of the rivers ([Mesopotamia]), and out of Syria of Maachah and out of Zobah.
So they hired thirty-two thousand chariots, and the king of Maachah and his people, who came and pitched camp before Medeba. And the sons of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities and came to battle.
And when David heard [of it], he sent Joab and all the host of the mighty men.
And the sons of Ammon came out and put the battle in order before the gate of the city, and the kings that had come [were] by themselves in the field.
Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose out of all the choice of Israel and put [them] in order against the Syrians.
And he put the rest of the people into the hand of Abishai, his brother, putting them in order against the sons of Ammon.
And he said, If the Syrians are too strong for me, then thou shalt save me; but if the sons of Ammon are too strong for thee, then I will save thee.
Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly for our people and for the cities of our God; and let the LORD do [that which is] good in his sight.
So Joab and the people that [were] with him drew near before the Syrians unto the battle; and they fled before him.
And when the sons of Ammon saw that the Syrians had fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, his brother, and entered into the city. Then Joab returned to Jerusalem.
And when the Syrians saw that they were smitten before Israel, they sent ambassadors and drew forth the Syrians that [were] beyond the river, whose captain was Shophach, the prince of the host of Hadarezer.
And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel and passed over the Jordan and came upon them and ordered his host against them. And when David had put his troops in order against the Syrians, they fought with him.
But the Syrian fled before Israel, and David slew of the Syrians [those of] seven thousand chariots, and forty thousand footmen; likewise he killed Shophach, the captain of the host.
And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were smitten before Israel, they made peace with David and became his servants; neither would the Syrians help the sons of Ammon any more.: