The priests, the Levites, all the tribe of Levi shall have no portion or inheritance with Israel. They shall eat fire offerings of Jehovah, even His inheritance.
And he shall have no inheritance among his brothers. Jehovah Himself is his inheritance, as He has spoken to him.
And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from those that offer a sacrifice, whether an ox or sheep, that they shall give to the priest the leg, and the two cheeks, and the stomach,
the first of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your flock, you shall give to him.
For Jehovah your God has chosen him out of all your tribes to stand to serve in the name of Jehovah, he and his sons continually.
And if a Levite comes from one of your gates of all Israel, where he has been living, and comes with all the desire of his soul to the place which Jehovah shall choose,
then he shall serve in the name of Jehovah his God, as all his brothers the Levites who stand before Jehovah do.
They shall eat portion like portion, except of the sales of what belonged to his father.
When you come to the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you, you shall not learn to do according to the hateful acts of those nations.
There shall not be found in you one who passes his son or his daughter through the fire, one that uses divination, an observer of clouds, or a fortuneteller, or a whisperer of spells,
or a magic charmer, or one asking of familiar spirits, or a wizard, or one inquiring of the dead.
For all doing these things are an abomination to Jehovah. And because of these filthy acts Jehovah your God is expelling these nations before you.
You shall be perfect with Jehovah your God.
For these nations whom you shall expel listen to observers of clouds, and to diviners. But as to you, Jehovah your God has not allowed you to do so.
Jehovah your God shall raise up to you a Prophet from among you, of your brothers, One like me; you shall listen to Him,
according to all that you desired of Jehovah your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of Jehovah my God, nor let me see this great fire any more, lest I die.
And Jehovah said to me, They have spoken well, what they have said.
I shall raise up a Prophet to them from among their brothers, one like you; and I will put My words in His mouth; and He shall speak to them all that I shall command Him.
And it shall be, whoever will not listen to My words which he shall speak in My name, I will require it at his hand.
But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in My name, that which I have not commanded him to speak, and who speaks in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die.
And if you say in your heart, How shall we know the word which Jehovah has not spoken?
When a prophet speaks in the name of Jehovah, if the thing does not happen or come about, that is the thing which Jehovah has not spoken; that prophet has spoken it proudly; you shall not be afraid of him.