And the sabbath being over, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary the Magdalene, and the other Mary, to view the sepulchre.
And, lo! there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled away the stone, and sat upon it.
His appearance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow.
And for fear of him the keepers shook, and became as dead men.
And the angel answering said to the women, Fear ye not; for I know that ye are seeking Jesus, who was crucified.
He is not here; for he hath risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay.
And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he hath risen from the dead, and, lo! he is going before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him. Lo! I have told you.
And they went away quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples.
And lo! Jesus met them, saying, All hail! And they went up, and laid hold of his feet, and knelt down before him.
Then Jesus saith to them, Be not afraid; go, tell my brethren to depart into Galilee, and there they shall see me.
And as they were going, lo! some of the guard came into the city, and told the chief priests all that had taken place.
And having assembled with the elders, and taken counsel together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,
saying, Say, His disciples came by night, and stole him away, while we slept.
And should the governor hear of this, we will persuade him, and make you secure.
So they took the money, and did as they were taught. And this story hath been commonly reported among the Jews to this day.
And the eleven disciples went into Galilee, into the mountain, where Jesus had directed them.
And when they saw him, they knelt down before him; but some doubted.
And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All power was given to me in heaven and on earth.
Go, and make all nations my disciples, baptizing them into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit;
teaching them to observe all things, whatever I have commanded you. And, lo! I am with you always, unto the end of the world.