What then shall we say? are we still to continue in sin that favour may abound?
Far be it! we who have died unto sin, how, any longer, shall we live therein?
Or know ye not that, we, as many as were immersed into Christ [Jesus], into his death were immersed?
We were, therefore, buried together with him through our immersion into his death, in order that—just as Christ was raised from among the dead through the glory of the Father, so, we also, in newness of life should walk.
For, if we have come to be grown together in the likeness of his death, certainly, in that of his resurrection also, shall we be.
Of this taking note—that, our old man, was crucified together with him in order that the sinful body might be made powerless, that we should, no longer, be in servitude to sin;
For, he that hath died, hath become righteously acquitted from his sin.
Now, if we have died together with Christ, we believe that we shall also live together with him;
Knowing that, Christ having been raised from among the dead, no more dieth,—death, over him, no more, hath lordship,—
For, in that he died, unto sin, died he once for all, but, in that he liveth, he liveth unto God.
So, ye also, be reckoning yourselves to be—dead indeed unto sin, but, alive unto God in Christ Jesus.
Let not sin, therefore, reign in your death-doomed body, that ye should be obedient to its covetings;
Neither be presenting your members as weapons of unrighteousness unto sin, but present yourselves unto God as though alive from among the dead, and your members as weapons of righteousness unto God;
For, sin, over you, shall not have lordship, for ye are not under law, but under favour.
What then? Shall we sin, because we are not under law but under favour? Far be it!
Know ye not that, unto whom ye are presenting yourselves as servants for obedience, servants ye are unto [him unto] whom ye are obedient, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness?
But thanks be unto God, that—whereas ye were servants of sin, ye became obedient out of the heart unto the mould of teaching into which ye were delivered;
And, being freed from sin, ye were made servants unto righteousness;—
In human fashion am I speaking, because of the weakness of your flesh;—for, just as ye presented your members as servants unto impurity and unto lawlessness [for lawlessness], so now, present ye your members as servants unto righteousness for sanctification.
For, when ye were servants of sin, ye were free as to righteousness;—
What fruit, therefore, had ye then—in things for which ye now are taking shame to yourselves? For, the end of those things, is death.
Whereas, now, having been freed from sin, and made servants unto God, ye have your fruit for sanctification and, the end, life age-abiding.
For, the wages of sin, is death; but, God’s gift of favour, is life age-abiding, in Christ Jesus our Lord.