These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun,
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
The sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, which three were born to him of Shua's daughter the Canaanitess. And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of Jehovah, and he killed him.
And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore for him Perez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five.
The sons of Perez: Hezron, and Hamul.
And the sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; five of them in all.
And the sons of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel who committed a trespass in the devoted thing.
And the sons of Ethan: Azariah.
The sons also of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.
And Ram begot Amminadab, and Amminadab begot Nahshon, ruler of the sons of Judah.
And Nahshon begot Salmon, and Salmon begot Boaz,
and Boaz begot Obed, and Obed begot Jesse,
and Jesse begot his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third,
Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh.
And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three.
And Abigail bore Amasa. And the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
And Caleb the son of Hezron begot sons of Azubah his wife, and of Jerioth. And these were her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
And Azubah died, and Caleb took to him Ephrath, who bore for him Hur.
And Hur begot Uri, and Uri begot Bezalel.
And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he took to wife when he was sixty years old, and she bore for him Segub.
And Segub begot Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
And Geshur and Aram took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath, and the villages of it, even sixty cities. All these were the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.
And after that Hezron was dead in Caleb-ephrathah, then Abijah, Hezron's wife bore for him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.
And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram the firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah.
And Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.
And the sons of Onam were Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab, and Abishur.
And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bore for him Ahban, and Molid.
And the sons of Nadab: Seled, and Appaim; but Seled died without sons.
And the sons of Appaim: Ishi. And the sons of Ishi: Sheshan. And the sons of Sheshan: Ahlai.
And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether, and Jonathan; and Jether died without sons.
And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.
Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha.
And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife, and she bore for him Attai.
And Attai begot Nathan, and Nathan begot Zabad,
and Zabad begot Ephlal, and Ephlal begot Obed,
and Obed begot Jehu, and Jehu begot Azariah,
and Azariah begot Helez, and Helez begot Eleasah,
and Eleasah begot Sismai, and Sismai begot Shallum,
and Shallum begot Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begot Elishama.
And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron.
And the sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema.
And Shema begot Raham, the father of Jorkeam, and Rekem begot Shammai.
And the son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth-zur.
And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. And Haran begot Gazez.
And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jothan, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.
Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena, and the father of Gibea. And the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
These were the sons of Caleb. The sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim,
Salma the father of Bethlehem, Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
And Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhothites,
and the families of Kiriath-jearim: The Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.
The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.
And the families of scribes who dwelt at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came of Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.