Paul, an apostle of Yahushua the Messiah by the will of יהוה, according to the promise of life which is in Yahushua the Messiah,
To Timothy, my dearly beloved son: Favour, mercy, and peace, from יהוה the Father and Yahushua the Messiah our Master.
I thank יהוה, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day;
Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also.
Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of יהוה, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.
For יהוה hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.
Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Master, nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the evangel according to the power of יהוה;
Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and Favour, which was given us in Yahushua the Messiah before the world began,
But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Yahushua the Messiah, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the glad tidings:
Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
For the which cause I also suffer these things: nevertheless I am not ashamed: for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day.
Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me, in faith and love which is in Yahushua the Messiah.
That good thing which was committed unto thee keep by the Holy Spirit which dwelleth in us.
This thou knowest, that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me; of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
יהוה give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus; for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain:
But, when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.
יהוה grant unto him that he may find mercy in that day: and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.