Whosoever believeth that, Jesus, is the Christ, of God, hath been born: and, whosoever loveth him that begat, loveth him that hath been begotten of him.
Hereby, perceive we, that we love the children of God, as soon as, God, we love, and, his commandments, we are doing.
For, this is the love of God—that, his commandments, we be keeping, and, his commandments, are not burdensome;
Because, whatsoever hath been born of God, overcometh the world; and, this, is the victory that hath overcome the world—our faith.
[And] who is he that overcometh the world, save he that believeth that, Jesus, is the Son of God?
This, is he that came through means of water and blood, Jesus Christ: not, by the water, only, but, by the water and by the blood,—and, the Spirit, it is, that is bearing witness, because, the Spirit, is the truth.
Because, three, are they who are bearing witness—
The Spirit, and the Water, and the Blood; and, the three, are, [witnesses], unto one thing.
If, the witness of men, we receive, the witness of God, is, greater. Because, this, is the witness of God—in that he hath borne witness concerning his Son,—
He that believeth on the Son of God, hath the witness, within himself: He that doth not believe God, false, hath made him,—because he hath not believed on the witness which, God, hath witnessed, concerning his Son—
And, this, is the witness:—that, life age-abiding, hath God given unto us, and, this life, is, in his Son:
He that hath the Son, hath, the life,—he that hath not the Son of God, hath not, the life.
These things, have I written unto you—in order that ye may know that ye have, Life Age-abiding—unto you who believe on the name of the Son of God.
And, this, is the boldness which we have towards him: that, if, anything, we ask, according to his will, He doth hearken unto us.
And, if we know that he doth hearken unto us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the things asked, which we have asked of him,
If one should see his brother committing a sin, not unto death, he shall ask, and He will grant unto him life,—for them who are sinning, not unto death. There, is, a sin, unto death: not concerning that, am I saying, that he should make request.
All unrighteousness, is, sin, and there, is, a sin, not unto death.
We know that, whosoever hath been born of God, is not committing sin,—Nay, he that hath been born of God, He keepeth him, and, the wicked one, doth not touch him.
We know that, of God, are we; and, the whole world, in the wicked one, is lying.
We know, moreover, that, the Son of God, hath come, and hath given us insight, so that we are getting to understand, him that is Real,—and we are in him that is Real, in his Son Jesus Christ. This, is the Real God, and life age-abiding.
Dear children! Guard yourselves from idols.