After these things the Lord appointed another seventy also and sent them two by two before his face into every city and place where he himself would come.
Therefore he said unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the labourers [are] few; pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth labourers into his harvest.
Go; behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.
Carry neither purse nor provision bag nor shoes, and greet no one on the way.
And into whatever house ye enter, first say, Peace [be] to this house.
And if indeed there is a son of peace there, your peace shall rest upon it; if not, it shall turn to you again.
And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such things as they give, for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house.
And into whatever city ye enter and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you
and heal the sick that are therein and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come near unto you.
But into whatever city ye enter and they receive you not, go out into the streets of the same and say,
Even the very dust of your city which cleaves on us we do wipe off against you; notwithstanding be ye sure of this that the kingdom of God is come near unto you.
But I say unto you that it shall be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city.
Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which have been done in you, they would have repented a long while ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Therefore it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you.
And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto the heavens, shalt be thrust down to Hades.
He that hears you hears me, and he that despises you despises me, and he that despises me despises him that sent me.
And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject unto us in thy name.
And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.
Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
Notwithstanding, rejoice not in this, that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice because your names are written in the heavens.
In that same hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent and hast revealed them unto babes; even so, Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight.
All things are delivered to me of my Father, and no one knows who the Son is, but the Father, and who the Father is, but the Son and [he] to whom the Son will reveal [him].
And he turned him unto [his] disciples and said privately, Blessed [are] the eyes which see the things that ye see,
for I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see those things which ye see and did not see [them] and to hear those things which ye hear and did not hear [them].
And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou?
And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy strength and with all thy understanding, and thy neighbour as thyself.
And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right; do this, and thou shalt live.
But he, desiring to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?
And Jesus answering said, A certain [man] went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment and wounded [him] and departed, leaving [him] half dead.
And it so happened that a certain priest came down that way; and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
And likewise a Levite, when he came near the place and looked [on him, he] passed by on the other side.
But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was; and when he saw him, he was moved with compassion
and went to [him] and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast and brought him to an inn and took care of him.
And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two denarius and gave [them] to the host and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.
Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?
And he said, He that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise.
Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village; and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word.
But Martha was cumbered about in much serving and came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me.
And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things;
but [only] one thing is necessary, and Mary has chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.: