Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, And for four, will I not turn away his punishment; For he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime!
But I will send a fire on Moab, Which shall devour the palaces of Kirioth; And Moab shall die amid tumults, Amid the war-shout, and the sound of the trumpet.
I will destroy the judge from the midst of him, And slay all the princes with him, saith Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, And for four, will I not turn away their punishment; For they have despised the law of Jehovah, And have not kept his statutes, And their idols have caused them to err, After which their fathers walked.
But I will send a fire upon Judah, Which shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, And for four, will I not turn away their punishment. For they sell the righteous for silver, And the needy for a pair of shoes;
They pant for the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, And pervert the cause of the afflicted. The son and the father go in to the same damsel, To dishonor my holy name.
They lay themselves down upon pledged garments Near every altar; And drink wine, procured by fines, In the house of their gods.
Yet I destroyed the Amorites before them, Who were tall as the cedars, And strong as the oaks. I destroyed their fruit above, And their roots beneath.
I brought you up from the land of Egypt, And led you in the desert forty years, That ye might possess the land of the Amorite.
Of your sons also I raised up prophets, And of your young men Nazarites; Is it not even so, O ye sons of Israel? saith Jehovah.
But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink, And commanded the prophets, Saying, Prophesy not!
Behold, I will press you down, As a wagon presseth down that is full of sheaves.
And flight shall fail the swift, And the strong shall not exert his strength, And the mighty shall not save his life,
And he that handleth the bow shall not stand, And the swift of foot shall not save himself, And the horseman shall not escape with his life.
He that is strong in heart among the mighty Shall, in that day, flee away naked, saith Jehovah.