But the Spirit distinctly says that in later times there will be some who will fall away from the Faith, and devote their attention to misleading spirits, and to the teaching of demons,
who will make use of the hypocrisy of lying teachers. These men’s consciences are seared,
and they discourage marriage and enjoin abstinence from certain kinds of food; though God created these foods to be enjoyed thankfully by those who hold the Faith and have attained a full knowledge of the Truth.
Everything created by God is good, and there in nothing that need be rejected — provided only that it is received thankfully;
for it is consecrated by God’s blessing and by prayer.
Put all this before the Brethren, and you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, sustained by the precepts of the Faith and of that Good Teaching by which you have guided your life.
As for profane legends and old wives’ tales, leave them alone. Train yourself to lead a religious life;
for while the training of the body is of service in some respects, religion is of service in all, carrying with it, as it does, a promise of Life both here and hereafter.
How true that saying is and worthy of the fullest acceptance!
With that aim we toil and struggle, for we have set our hopes on the Living God, who is the Saviour of all men, and especially of those who hold the Faith.
Dwell upon these things in your teaching.
Do not let any one look down on you because you are young, but, by your conversation, your conduct, your love, your faith, and your purity, be an example to those who hold the Faith.
Till I come, apply yourself to public reading, preaching, and teaching.
Do not neglect the divine gift within you, which was given you, amid many a prediction, when the hands of the Officers of the Church were laid on your head.
Practice these things, devote yourself to them, so that your progress may be plain to every one.
Look to yourself as well as to your teaching. Persevere in this, for your doing so will mean Salvation for yourself as well as for your hearers.