And there was a certain sick one, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
And it was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
Then the sisters sent to Him, saying, Lord, behold, the one whom You love is sick.
And hearing, Jesus said, This is not sickness to death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God be glorified by it.
And Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
Therefore, when He heard that he is sick, then, indeed, He remained in the place where He was two days.
Then after this He said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again.
The disciples said to Him, Rabbi, just now the Jews were seeking to stone You, and do You go there again?
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of the world.
But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him.
He said these things. And after this, He said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I am going that I may awaken him.
Then His disciples said, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.
But Jesus had spoken about his death, but they thought that He spoke of the sleep of slumber.
Therefore, then Jesus said to them plainly, Lazarus has died.
And I rejoice because of you, in order that you may believe that I was not there. But let us go to him.
Then Thomas, he having been called Twin, said to the fellow disciples, Let us go, even we, that we may die with Him.
Then coming, Jesus found him already being held in the tomb four days.
And Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia off.
And many of the Jews had come to those around Martha and Mary, that they might console them concerning their brother.
Then when Martha heard that Jesus is coming, she met Him; but Mary was sitting in the house.
Then Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if You were here, my brother would not be dead.
But even now I know that whatever You may ask God, God will give You.
Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again.
Martha said to Him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection in the last day.
Jesus said to her, I am the Resurrection and the Life. The one believing into Me, though he die, he shall live.
And everyone living and believing into Me shall not ever die forever. Do you believe this?
She said to Him, Yes, Lord, I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God who comes into the world.
And saying these things, she went away and called her sister Mary secretly, saying, The Teacher is here and calls you.
That one, when she heard, rose up quickly and came to Him.
And Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in the place where Martha met Him.
Then the Jews who were with her in the house, and consoling her, seeing that Mary quickly rose up and went out, they followed her, saying, She is going to the tomb so that she may weep there.
Then Mary, when she came where Jesus was, seeing Him, she fell at His feet, saying to Him, Lord, if You were here, my brother would not have died.
Then when He saw her weeping, and the Jews who came down with her weeping, Jesus groaned in the spirit and troubled Himself.
And He said, Where have you put him? They said to Him, Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
Then the Jews said, See how He loved him!
But some of them said, Was this One, the one opening the eyes of the blind, not able to have caused that this one should not die?
Then groaning again within Himself, Jesus came to the tomb. And it was a cave, and a stone was lying on it.
Jesus said, Lift the stone. Martha, the sister of the one that had died, said to Him, Lord, he already smells, for it is the fourth day .
Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you would believe you will see the glory of God?
Then they lifted the stone where the dead one was laid. And Jesus lifted His eyes upward and said, Father, I thank You that You heard Me.
And I know that you always hear Me, but because of the crowd standing around, I said it , that they might believe that You sent Me.
And saying these things, He cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus! Here! Outside!
And the one who had died came out, the feet and the hands having been bound with sheets, and his face being bound with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Loosen him and let him go.
Then many of the Jews, those coming to Mary, and having seen what Jesus did, believed into Him.
But some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees assembled a sanhedrin, and said, What are we doing, for this man does many miracles?
If we let him alone this way, all will believe into him, and the Romans will come and will take away from us both the place and the nation.
But a certain one of them, Caiaphas being high priest of that year, said to them, You know nothing,
nor consider that it is profitable for us that one man die for the people, and not all the nation to perish.
But he did not say this from himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was about to die on behalf of the nation,
and not only on behalf of the nation, but that He also might gather into one the children of God who had been scattered.
Then from that day, they took counsel that they might kill Him.
Then Jesus no longer walked publicly among the Jews, but went away from there into the country near a deserted place , to a city being called Ephraim, and stayed there with His disciples.
And the Passover of the Jews was near. And many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover, that they might purify themselves.
Then they sought Jesus, and said with one another, standing in the temple, What does it seem to you? That He does not at all come to the Feast?
And all the chief priests and the Pharisees had given commands that if anyone knew where He is, he should inform so that they might seize Him.