Whoever loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproofisstupid.
A goodmanobtaineth favour from the LORD: but a man of wicked devices he will condemn.
A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
A virtuous womanis a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
He that isdespised, and hath a servant, isbetter than he that honoureth himself, and is destitute of bread.
A righteousmanregardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.
The wicked desireth the net of evil men : but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit .
The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompence of a man’s hands shall be rendered to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth to counsel is wise.
A fool’s wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame.
He thatspeaketh truth showeth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.
There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.
The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Deceitis in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
Lying lipsareabomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight.
A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be put to forced labour.
Heaviness in the heart of man weigheth it down: but a good word maketh it glad.
The righteousis more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them.
The slothfulmanroasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious.
In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway of it there is no death.