What then shall we say our father Abraham to have found according to flesh?
For if Abraham was justified by works, he has a boast, but not with God.
For what does the Scripture say? "And Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness." Gen. 15:6
Now to one working, the reward is not counted according to grace, but according to debt.
But to the one not working, but believing on Him justifying the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.
Even as also David says of the blessedness of the man to whom God counts righteousness apart from works:
"Blessed are those whose lawlessnesses are forgiven, and whose sins are covered;
blessed the man to whom the Lord will in no way charge sin." LXX-Psa. 31:1, 2; MT-Psa. 32:1, 2
Is this blessedness then on the circumcision, or also on the uncircumcision? For we say the faith "was counted to Abraham for righteousness." Gen. 15:6
How then was it counted? Being in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision!
And he received a sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness of faith while in uncircumcision, for him to be a father of those believing through uncircumcision, for righteousness to be counted to them also,
and a father of circumcision to those not of circumcision only, but also to those walking in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham during uncircumcision.
For the promise was not through law to Abraham, or to his seed, for him to be the heir of the world, but through a righteousness of faith.
For if those of Law are heirs, faith has been made of no effect, and the promise has been destroyed.
For the law works out wrath; for where no law is, neither is transgression.
On account of this, it is of faith, that it be according to grace, for the promise to be made sure to all the seed, not to that of the Law only, but also to that of the faith of Abraham, who is father of us all,
according as it has been written, "I have appointed you a father of many nations;" before God, whom he believed, the One making the dead live, and calling the things that are not as if they were. Gen. 17:5
He against hope believed in hope, for him to become a father of many nations, according to what has been said, "So shall your seed be." Gen. 15:5
And being about a hundred years old , not weakening in faith, he did not consider his body to have died already, nor yet the death of Sarah's womb,
and did not stagger by unbelief at the promise of God, but was empowered by faith, giving glory to God,
and being fully persuaded that what He has promised, He is also able to do.
Because of this, "it was also counted to him for righteousness." Gen. 15:6
But it was not written for him only, that it was counted to him,
but also on account of us, to whom it is about to be counted, to the ones believing on Him who has raised our Lord Jesus from the dead,
who was delivered because our offenses and was raised because of our justification.