Jesus spoke these things, and he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy Son, that the Son may also glorify thee,
just as thou gave him authority over all flesh, so that all things that thou have given him, he will give them eternal life.
And this is eternal life, that they should know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou sent.
I glorified thee on the earth. I finished the work which thou have given me that I should do.
And now, Father, glorify thou me with thyself with the glory that I had with thee before the world was.
I manifested thy name to the men whom thou gave me out of the world. They were thine, and thou gave them to me, and they have kept thy word.
Now they know that all things, as many as thou gave me are from thee.
Because the sayings that thou gave to me, I gave to them. And they received them, and knew truly that I came forth from thee, and they believed that thou sent me.
I pray about them. I do not pray about the world, but about whom thou have given me, because they are for thee.
And all my things are thy things, and thy things are my things, and I am glorified in them.
And I am no more in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name that thou have given to me, so that they may be one, just as we.
While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Whom thou gave to me, I kept, and none of them was destroyed, except the son of destruction, so that the scripture might be fulfilled.
And now I come to thee. And I speak these things in the world, so that they may have my joy fulfilled in them.
I have given them thy word, and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
I pray not that thou should take them out of the world, but that thou should keep them from the evil.
They are not of the world just as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them in thy truth. Thy word is truth.
Just as thou sent me into the world, so also I sent them into the world.
And for their sakes I sanctify myself, so that they may also themselves be sanctified in truth.
And I pray not about these only, but also about those who believe in me through their word,
so that they may all be one, just as thou, Father, are in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that thou sent me.
And I, the glory that thou have given me, I have given to them, so that they may be one, just as we are one,
I in them, and thou in me, that they may be fully perfected in one, and so that the world may know that thou sent me, and loved them, just as thou loved me.
Father, whom thou gave to me, I desire that where I am, they also may be with me, so that they may see my glory that thou have given me, because thou loved me before the foundation of the world.
And righteous Father, the world does not know thee, but I know thee, and these know that thou sent me.
And I made known to them thy name, and I will make it known, so that the love that thou loved me may be in them, and I in them.