THEN he said to his disciples, It is impossible that offences should not come; but wo to him through whom they come!
It would be advantageous for him, if a milstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea, rather than offend one of these little ones.
Take heed to yourselves: if thy brother sin against thee, reprove him; and if he repent, forgive him.
And if seven times in the day he sin against thee, and seven times in the day return to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him.
And the disciples said unto the Lord, increase our faith.
And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard, ye might say to that sycamore-tree, Be rooted up, and be planted in the sea; and it would obey you.
But which of you, having a servant plowing or keeping sheep, when he cometh from the field, will say immediately, Come, sit down at table?
And will he not rather say, Prepare for me to sup, and gird thyself, and wait upon me, till I eat and drink; and after that, thou shalt eat and drink thyself?
Doth he hold it as a favour from that servant, that he did the things which were ordered him? I think not.
So also ye, when ye have done all things commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: for we have but done what was our duty to do.
And it came to pass, as he was going towards Jerusalem, he passed also through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
And as he was entering a certain village, ten leprous men met him, who stood at a distance:
and they lift up their voice, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!
And looking towards them, he said, Go, shew yourselves to the priests. And it came to pass, that as they were on the road, they were made clean.
Then one of them, seeing that he was cured, returned, and with a loud voice gave glory to God,
and fell prostrate at his feet giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.
Then Jesus spake and said, were there not ten cleansed? but where are the nine?
There are none found returning to give glory to God, but this alien.
And he said to him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath saved thee.
And being asked by one of the Pharisees, When cometh the kingdom of God? he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation:
neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
Then said he to the disciples, The days will come when ye shall eagerly desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and shall not see it.
And they will say to you, Lo here! and lo there! go not after them, nor follow them.
For as the lightning flashing from one quarter under heaven, shineth to another quarter under heaven; so shall the Son of man also be at his day.
But he must first suffer many things, and be rejected by this generation.
And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the coming of the Son of man.
They did eat, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and the deluge came, and destroyed them all.
Even so, likewise, it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded;
but the day Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
Just so will it be in the day when the Son of man shall be revealed.
In that day, let not the man who is upon the roof, and his goods in the house, go down to carry them away: and he that is in the field, in like manner, let him not return for any things behind him.
Remember Lot’s wife.
Whosoever seeketh to preserve his life shall lose it; and whosoever would lose it, shall preserve it.
I tell you, in that night two shall be in the same bed; the one shall be seized, and the other dismissed. Two women shall be grinding together: the one shall be seized, and the other dismissed.
Two shall be in the field; the one shall be seized, and the other dismissed.
TEXT OMITTED
And they answering, said to him, Where, Lord? And he said, Wherever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together.