So, then, my brethren, beloved and ardently desired, my joy and my crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
I beseech Euodia, and I beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.
Now I beseech you also, true yoke-fellow, to assist those women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and my other fellow-laborers, whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always; and again I say, Rejoice.
Let your gentleness be known to all men: the Lord is at hand.
Be anxious about nothing, but in every thing, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God:
and the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue, or any praise, think of these things.
Do those things which you have learned and received, and heard and seen in me, and the God of peace will be with you.
I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at length your care for me has revived again; in this, indeed, you had me in mind, but you lacked opportunity.
I do not speak in respect to want: for I have learned, in whatever condition I am, to be content.
I know what it is to be in want, and what it is to have abundance. Everywhere and in all things, I have been fully instructed in being full and in being hungry, in having abundance and in being in want.
I am able to do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
Yet you have done well in contributing to the relief of my affliction.
Now you Philippians know also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church contributed to me so that I kept an account of giving and receiving, but you only.
For even when I was in Thessalonica, you sent once and again to aid me in my need.
Not that I seek a gift; but I desire fruit that may abound to your account.
But I have all, and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus your gifts, a sweet odor, a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God.
But my God will supply all your need, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Now to God, even our Father, be glory from age to age. Amen.
Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
All the saints salute you, especially those who are of Caesar’s household.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.