And the fifth angel trumpeted. And I saw a star out of the heaven falling onto the earth. And the key to the pit of the abyss was given to it.
And he opened the pit of the abyss. And smoke went up out of the pit, like smoke of a great furnace. And the sun was darkened, and the air, by the smoke of the pit.
And out of the smoke locusts came forth to the earth. And authority was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have authority.
And it was said to them that they should not harm the grass of the earth, nor every green thing, nor every tree, except only the men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
And it was given to them that they should not kill them, but that they be tormented five months. And their torment is as the torment of a scorpion when it stings a man.
And in those days men will seek death, and they will not find it. And they will long to die, yet death will flee from them.
And the likenesses of the locusts were like horses having been prepared for war; and on their heads as crowns, like gold; and their faces like the faces of men.
And they had hairs like the hairs of women; and their teeth were like those of lions.
And they had breastplates like iron breastplates; and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots with many horses running to war.
And they have tails like scorpions, and their stings were in their tails; and their authority is to harm men five months.
And they have a king over them, the angel of the abyss. In Hebrew his name was Abaddon, and in Greek he has the name Apollyon.
The first woe has departed; behold, after these things come two woes.
And the sixth angel trumpeted. And I heard one voice out of the four horns of the golden altar before God,
saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Release the four angels, those having been bound at the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels were released, those having been prepared for the hour and day and month and year, that they should kill the third part of men.
And the number of the armies of the cavalry was two myriads of myriads; and I heard their number.
And so I saw in the vision the horses, and those sitting on them, having fire-colored breastplates, even dusky red and brimstone-like; and the heads of the horses as heads of lions; and out of their mouths come fire and smoke and brimstone.
By these three were killed the third part of men, by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the brimstone coming out of their mouths.
For their authority is in their mouth, and in their tails; for their tails are like snakes, having heads, and they do harm with them.
And the rest of men, those not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands, that they will not worship demons, and "golden idols, and silver, and bronze, and stone, and wooden idols, which neither are able to see, nor to hear," nor to walk. Dan. 5:23; Psa. 115:4 -7; 135:15-17
And they did not repent of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornications, nor of their thefts.