When he had come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him.
And lo! there came a leper and bowed down before him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst cleanse me.
And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou cleansed. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
And Jesus saith to him, See thou tell no one; but go, show thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
And when he had entered into Capernaum, there came to him a centurion, beseeching him,
and saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home palsied, sorely tormented.
He saith to him, I will come and heal him.
But the centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst come under my roof; but only command with a word, and my servant will be made well.
For even I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me; and I say to this one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
When Jesus heard this, he marveled, and said to those who followed, Truly do I say to you, Not even in Israel have I found such faith.
And I say to you, that many will come from the east and the west, and recline at table with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven.
But the sons of the kingdom will go out into the outer darkness; there will be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
And Jesus said to the centurion, Go thy way; as thou hast believed, so be it done to thee. And the servant was made well in that hour.
And when Jesus had come into Peter’s house, he saw his wife’s mother lying sick of a fever.
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she arose, and waited on him.
And when evening came, they brought to him many that were possessed by demons; and he cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all that were sick;
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, "He himself took our infirmities, and bore our diseases."
And Jesus, seeing great multitudes about him, gave orders to depart to the other side.
And a certain scribe came and said to him, Teacher, I will follow thee wherever thou goest.
And Jesus saith to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have lodging-places; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
And another of the disciples said to him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.
But he saith to him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead.
And when he had gone on board the boat, his disciples followed him.
And, lo! a great tempest arose on the lake, so that the boat was almost covered by the waves; but he was sleeping.
And they came and awoke him, saying, Lord, save! we are perishing.
And he saith to them, Why are ye fearful, ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the waves; and there was a great calm.
And the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the waves obey him?
And when he had come to the other side, into the country of the Gadarenes, there met him two men possessed by demons, coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that no one could pass by that way.
And lo! they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Son of God? Didst thou come here to torment us before the time?
Now there was at a distance from them a herd of many swine feeding.
And the demons besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, send us into the herd of swine.
And he said to them, Go. And they came out, and went into the swine. And lo! the whole herd rushed down the steep into the lake, and perished in the waters.
And the herdsmen fled, and went away into the city, and told everything, and what had happened to the men possessed by demons.
And lo! the whole city came out to meet Jesus; and when they saw him, they besought him to depart from their borders.