And Jerubbaal (he is Gideon) rose early, and all the people with him. And they camped by the spring of Harod, and the army of Midian was north of him on Mount Moreh, in the valley.
And Jehovah said to Gideon, The people with you are too many for Me to give Midian into their hands, that Israel not glorify itself against Me, saying, My hand has delivered me.
And now then cry in the ears of the people, saying, Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and leave Mount Gilead. And twenty two thousand of the people returned. And ten thousand were left.
And Jehovah said to Gideon, The people are still too many. Bring them down to the water, and I will refine them for you there. And it shall be, he of whom I say to you, this one shall go with you, he shall go with you. And any of whom I shall say to you, This one shall not go with you, he shall not go.
And he brought the people down to the water. And Jehovah said to Gideon, Everyone who laps of the water with his tongue, as a dog laps, you shall set him apart. And everyone who bows on his knees to drink, set apart .
And the number of those lapping with their hand to their mouth was three hundred men. And all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
And Jehovah said to Gideon, I will deliver you by the three hundred men who lapped, and shall give Midian into your hand. And all the people shall go, each to his place.
And the people took the food in their hand, and their rams' horns; and he sent away every man of Israel, each to his tent. But he kept hold on the three hundred men. And the camp of Midian was below him in the valley.
And it happened on that night, Jehovah said to him, Rise up, go down to the camp, for I have given it into your hand.
And if you are afraid to go down, you and your young man Phurah go down to the camp.
And you shall hear what they say. And afterward your hand shall be made stronger, and you shall go down against the army. And he went down, he and his young man Phurah, to the edge of the battle alignment in the camp.
And Midian and Amalek, and all the sons of the east, were lying in the valley, as the locusts for multitude. And there was no number of their camels being as the sand on the lip of the sea for multitude.
And Gideon came; and, behold, a man was telling a dream to his companion. And he said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream. And, behold, a cake of barley bread was tumbling into the camp of Midian. And it came to the tent and struck it, and it fell, and turned it upside down ; and the tent fell down.
And his companion answered and said, This is nothing but the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel. God has given Midian and all the army into his hand.
And it happened when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and its interpretation, he worshiped. And he returned to the army of Israel and said, Rise up, for Jehovah has given the army of Midian into your hand.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies. And he put a ram's horn in the hand of all of them, and empty jars, and torches inside the jars.
And he said to them, Look at me, and do this; even behold, I am coming to the edge of the camp. And it shall be, as I do, so you shall do.
And I shall blow with a ram's horn, I and all who are with me. And you shall blow with the ram's horns, you also all around the camp, and shall shout, For Jehovah and for Gideon!
And Gideon came, and the hundred men with him, to the edge of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch; and they had but newly set the watch. And they blew with the ram's horns, and shattered the jars in their hand.
And the three companies blew with their ram's horns, and broke the jars, and held the torches in their left hand; and in their right hand the ram's horns, and they cried out, A sword for Jehovah and for Gideon!
And they each one stood in his place, all around the army. And all the army ran, and they shouted, and they fled.
And the three hundred blew the ram's horns, and Jehovah set a man's sword against his companion even in all the army. And the army fled to Beth-shittah, at Zererath, to the border of Abel-meholah, by Tabbath.
And the men of Israel were called from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and chased Midian.
And Gideon had sent messengers to all the hills of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and capture the waters before them as far as Beth-barah and the Jordan. And every man of Ephraim was called up, and they captured the waters as far as Beth-barah and the Jordan.
And they captured the two rulers of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb. And Oreb was slain at the rock of Oreb; and they killed Zeeb at the winevat of Zeeb. And they pursued to Midian. And they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.