And he spoke a parable to them to show that they ought to pray always, and not be faint-hearted:
saying, There was in a certain city a judge, who feared not God, nor regarded man.
And there was a widow in that city; and she kept coming to him, saying, Avenge me of my adversary!
And he would not for some time. But afterward he said within himself, Though I neither fear God, nor regard man,
yet, because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her; lest by coming for ever she weary me out.
And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.
And will not God avenge his chosen, who cry to him day and night, though he be slow to punish in their behalf?
I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. But yet, when the Son of man cometh, will he find faith on the earth?
And to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised all others, he spoke this parable:
Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
The Pharisee stood and prayed by himself thus: O God, I thank thee that I am not as the rest of men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican.
I fast twice in the week; I give tithes of all that I gain.
But the publican, standing afar off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven; but smote his breast, saying, O God, be merciful to me a sinner!
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for every one that exalteth himself will be humbled; but he that humbleth himself will be exalted.
And they brought to him infants also, that he might touch them; and the disciples, on seeing it, rebuked them.
But Jesus called them to him, saying, Suffer the little children to come to me, and forbid them not; for to such belongeth the kingdom of God.
Truly do I say to you, Whoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, will not enter therein.
And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit everlasting life?
And Jesus said to him, Why dost thou call me good? None is good but one, that is, God.
Thou knowest the commandments: "Do not commit adultery; Do not kill; Do not steal; Do not bear false witness; Honor thy father and thy mother."
And he said, All these have I kept from my youth.
And Jesus hearing this said to him, One thing thou still lackest: sell all that thou hast, and distribute to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.
But when he heard this, he became very sorrowful; for he was very rich.
And Jesus seeing him said, How hardly do they that have riches enter the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
And those who heard this said, Who then can be saved?
But he said, What is impossible with men is possible with God.
Then Peter said, Lo! we left what we had, and followed thee.
And he said to them, Truly do I say to you, There is no one that hath left house, or wife, or brothers, or parents, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,
who will not receive many fold more in the present time, and in the world to come everlasting life.
And taking the twelve aside, he said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all that hath been written by the prophets concerning the Son of man will be accomplished.
For he will be delivered up to the gentiles, and will be mocked, and insulted, and spit upon;
and they will scourge him, and put him to death; and the third day he will rise again.
And they understood none of these things; and the meaning of these words was hidden from them, and they did not comprehend what was said.
And it came to pass, as he drew near to Jericho, that a certain blind man was sitting by the wayside begging.
And hearing a multitude passing by, he asked what this meant.
And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by.
And he cried out, saying, Jesus, Son of David, have pity on me!
And they who went before sharply bade him hold his peace. But he cried out the more, Son of David, have pity on me!
And Jesus stopped, and ordered him to be brought to him. And when he had come near, he asked him,
What dost thou wish me to do for thee? And he said, Lord, to restore my sight.
And Jesus said to him, Receive thy sight; thy faith hath saved thee.
And immediately he received his sight, and followed him, giving glory to God; and all the people on seeing it gave praise to God.