The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for Jehovah has spoken. I have nourished and brought up sons, and they have rebelled against me.
The ox knows his owner, and the donkey his master's crib, but Israel does not know; my people does not consider.
Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, sons who deal corruptly! They have forsaken Jehovah. They have despised the Holy One of Israel. They have gone away backward.
Why will ye still be stricken, that ye revolt more and more? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness in it, but wounds, and bruises, and fresh stripes. They have not been closed nor bound up nor soothed with oil.
Your country is desolate. Your cities are burned with fire. Your land-strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers.
And the daughter of Zion is left as a booth in a vineyard, as a shed in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city.
Unless Jehovah of hosts had left to us a seed, we should have been as Sodom, we should have been like Gomorrah.
Hear the word of Jehovah, ye rulers of Sodom, give ear to the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah.
What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says Jehovah. I have had enough of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts. And I do not delight in the blood of bullocks or of lambs or of he-goats.
When ye come to appear before me, who has required this at your hand-to trample my courts?
Bring no more vain oblations. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and sabbath, the calling of assemblies-I cannot bear iniquity and the solemn meeting.
Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They are a trouble to me. I am weary of bearing them.
And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear; your hands are full of blood.
Wash you, make you clean, put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil.
Learn to do good. Seek justice, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.
Come now, and let us reason together, says Jehovah, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.
If ye are willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land.
But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword, for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken it.
How the faithful city has become a harlot! She who was full of justice! Righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers.
Thy silver has become dross, thy wine mixed with water.
Thy rulers are rebellious, and companions of thieves. Everyone loves bribes, and follows after rewards. They judge not the fatherless, nor does the cause of the widow come to them.
Therefore says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of my adversaries, and avenge me of my enemies.
And I will turn my hand upon thee, and thoroughly purge away thy dross, and will take away all thy tin.
And I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counselors as at the beginning. Afterward thou shall be called the city of righteousness, a faithful town.
Zion shall be redeemed with justice, and her converts with righteousness.
But the destruction of transgressors and sinners shall be together, and those who forsake Jehovah shall be consumed.
For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen.
For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fades, and as a garden that has no water.
And the strong man shall be as flax, and his work as a spark. And they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.