Thus says Jehovah, "Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool: what kind of house will you build to me? And what place shall be my rest?
For all these things has my hand made, and so all these things came to be," says Jehovah: "but to this man will I look, even to him who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word.
He who kills an ox is as he who kills a man; he who sacrifices a lamb, as he who breaks a dog's neck; he who offers an offering, as he who offers pig's blood; he who burns frankincense, as he who blesses an idol. Yes, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations:
I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears on them; because when I called, no one answered; when I spoke, they did not listen; but they did that which was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I did not delight."
Hear the word of Jehovah, you who tremble at his word: "Your brothers who hate you, who cast you out for my name's sake, have said, 'Let Jehovah be glorified, that we may see your joy;' but it is those who shall be disappointed.
A voice of tumult from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of Jehovah that renders recompense to his enemies.
"Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came, she delivered a son.
Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be brought forth at once? For as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children.
Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth?" says Jehovah: "Shall I who cause to bring forth shut the womb?" says your God.
"Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all you who love her: rejoice for joy with her, all you who mourn over her;
that you may nurse and be satisfied at the comforting breasts; that you may drink deeply, and be delighted with the abundance of her glory."
For thus says Jehovah, "Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream: and you will nurse. You will be carried on her side, and will be dandled on her knees.
As one whom his mother comforts, so will I comfort you; and you will be comforted in Jerusalem."
You will see it, and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like the tender grass: and the hand of Jehovah shall be known toward his servants; and he will have indignation against his enemies.
For, behold, Jehovah will come with fire, and his chariots shall be like the whirlwind; to render his anger with fierceness, and his rebuke with flames of fire.
For by fire will Jehovah execute judgment, and by his sword, on all flesh; and the slain of Jehovah shall be many.
"Those who sanctify themselves and purify themselves to go to the gardens, behind one in the midst, eating pig's flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, they shall come to an end together," says Jehovah.
"For I know their works and their thoughts: the time comes, that I will gather all nations and languages; and they shall come, and shall see my glory.
"I will set a sign among them, and I will send such as escape of them to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the islands afar off, who have not heard my fame, neither have seen my glory; and they shall declare my glory among the nations.
They shall bring all your brothers out of all the nations for an offering to Jehovah, on horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and on mules, and on dromedaries, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says Jehovah, as the children of Israel bring their offering in a clean vessel into the house of Jehovah.
Of them also will I take for priests and for Levites," says Jehovah.
"For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me," says Jehovah, "so your seed and your name shall remain.
It shall happen, that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worship before me," says Jehovah.
"They shall go forth, and look on the dead bodies of the men who have transgressed against me: for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they will be loathsome to all mankind."