Now these were the sons of David, which were born unto him in Hebron: the firstborn, Amnon of Ahinoam, the Jezreelitess; the second, Daniel of Abigail of Carmel;
the third, Absalom, the son of Maachah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah, the son of Haggith;
the fifth, Shephatiah of Abital; the sixth, Ithream by Eglah his wife.
[These] six were born unto him in Hebron, and there he reigned seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years.
And these were born unto him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four of Bathshua, the daughter of Ammiel:
And [another] nine: Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet,
Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet.
[These were] all the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines, and Tamar [was] their sister.
And Solomon's son [was] Rehoboam, Abia, his son; Asa, his son; Jehoshapha, his son;
Joram, his son; Ahaziah, his son; Joash, his son;
Amaziah, his son; Azariah, his son; Jotham, his son;
Ahaz, his son; Hezekiah, his son; Manasseh, his son;
Amon, his son; Josiah, his son.
And the sons of Josiah: the firstborn, Johanan; the second, Jehoiakim; the third, Zedekiah; the fourth, Shallum.
The sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah, his son; Zedekiah his son.
And the sons of Jeconiah: Assir, Salathiel, his son,
Malchiram also, Pedaiah, Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
And the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam, Hananiah, and Shelomith, their sister.
And [of Meshullam]: Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushabhesed, five in all.
The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jesaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shechaniah.
And the son of Shechaniah: Shemaiah, and the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igeal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.
And the sons of Elioenai: Hodaiah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Dalaiah, and Anani, seven.: