Elihu also proceeded, and said,
Suffer me a little, and I will show you that I have yet to speak on God’s behalf.
I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
For truly my words shall not be false: he that is perfect in knowledge is with you.
Behold, God is mighty, and despises not any: he is mighty in strength and wisdom.
He preserves not the life of the wicked: but gives right to the poor.
He withdraws not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings are they on the throne; yes, he does establish them for ever, and they are exalted.
And if they be bound in fetters, and be held in cords of affliction;
Then he shows them their work, and their transgressions that they have exceeded.
He opens also their ear to discipline, and commands that they return from iniquity.
If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.
But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he binds them.
They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean.
He delivers the poor in his affliction, and opens their ears in oppression.
Even so would he have removed you out of the strait into a broad place, where there is no narrow place; and that which should be set on your table should be full of fatness.
But you have fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold on you.
Because there is wrath, beware lest he take you away with his stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver you.
Will he esteem your riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of strength.
Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place.
Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this have you chosen rather than affliction.
Behold, God exalts by his power: who teaches like him?
Who has enjoined him his way? or who can say, You have worked iniquity?
Remember that you magnify his work, which men behold.
Every man may see it; man may behold it afar off.
Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out.
For he makes small the drops of water: they pour down rain according to the vapor thereof:
Which the clouds do drop and distil on man abundantly.
Also can any understand the spreading of the clouds, or the noise of his tabernacle?
Behold, he spreads his light on it, and covers the bottom of the sea.
For by them judges he the people; he gives meat in abundance.
With clouds he covers the light; and commands it not to shine by the cloud that comes between.
The noise thereof shows concerning it, the cattle also concerning the vapor.