In that day this song shall be sung in the land of Judah: A strong city is ours; He sets up salvation as our walls and rampart.
Open the gates, and the righteous nation shall come in, keeping faithfulness.
You will keep in perfect peace the mind stayed on You , for he trusts in You.
Trust in Jehovah forever, for in Jah Jehovah is everlasting strength.
For He bows the dwellers on high; He lays low the lofty city; He lays it low to the ground; He makes it touch even to the dust.
The foot shall trample it, the feet of the poor, steps of the weak.
The path for the just is uprightness. Upright One, level the track of the just.
Yea, Jehovah, in the path of Your judgments we awaited You; for Your name and for Your memory is the desire of our soul.
With my soul I desire You in the night; yea, with my spirit within me I diligently seek You. For when Your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
The wicked finds favor; he does not learn righteousness; he deals perversely in the land of honesty, and does not see the majesty of Jehovah.
Jehovah, Your hand is high; they do not see; they see, and are ashamed of the zeal of the people. Yea, the fire of Your foes devours them.
Jehovah, You will ordain peace for us; for also You have worked all our works for us.
Jehovah our God, masters beside You have governed us; only in You we will mention Your name.
Dead ones do not live; departed spirits do not rise; because of this You visited and destroyed them, and caused all memory of them to perish.
You have added to the nation, Jehovah; You have added to the nation, You are glorified; You have extended all the ends of the land.
Jehovah, they visited You in distress; they poured out a whisper; Your chastening was to them.
As a pregnant woman draws near to bear, she writhes and cries out in her pangs. So are we before You, Jehovah.
We conceived; we writhe; as it were, we gave birth to wind. We have not worked salvation for the earth; and the world's inhabitants have not fallen.
Your dead ones shall live, my dead body, they shall rise up. Awake and sing, dust dwellers; for the dew of lights is your dew; and the earth shall cast out departed spirits.
Come, My people, go in your rooms and shut your doors behind you. Hide for a little moment, until the fury passes.
For, behold, Jehovah comes out of His place to visit his iniquity on the dweller of the earth. The earth shall also reveal her blood, and shall no more cover over her slain ones.