And in the fulfilling of the day of Pentecost, they were all with one mind in the same place.
And suddenly a sound came out of the heaven, as being borne along by a violent wind! And it filled all the house where they were sitting.
And tongues as of fire appeared to them, being distributed, and it sat on each one of them.
And they were all filled of the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other languages, as the Spirit gave ability to them to speak.
And Jews were living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation of those under the heaven.
But this sound occurring, the multitude came together and were confounded, because they each heard them speaking in his own dialect.
And all were amazed and marveled, saying to one another, Behold, are not all these, those speaking, Galileans?
And how do we hear each in our own dialect in which we were born,
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and those living in Mesopotamia, both Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
both Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the regions of Libya over against Cyrene, and the temporarily residing Romans, both Jews and proselytes,
Cretans and Arabians; in our own languages we hear them speaking the great deeds of God?
And all were amazed and puzzled, saying to one another, What would this wish to be?
But ridiculing, others said, They are full of sweet wine.
But standing up with the Eleven, Peter lifted up his voice and spoke out to them, Men, Jews, and all those living in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen to my words:
For these are not drunk, as you imagine, for it is the third hour of the day.
But this is that which has been spoken by the prophet Joel,
"And it shall be" in the last days, God says, "I will pour from My Spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy;" "and your young men shall see visions," "and your old men shall dream dreams;"
"and also I will pour out My Spirit on My slaves and slave women in those days," and they shall prophesy.
"And I will give wonders in the heaven above," and miracles "on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke.
The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the" "coming of the great and glorious" "day of the Lord."
"And it shall be that everyone who shall call on the name of the Lord will be saved." Joel 3:15
Men, Israelites, hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man from God, having been approved among you by powerful deeds and wonders and miracles, which God did through Him in your midst, as you yourselves also know,
this One given to you by the before-determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you having taken by lawless hands, having crucified Him , you put Him to death.
But God raised Him up, loosing the throes of death, because it was not possible for Him to be held by it.
For David said as to Him, "I always foresaw the Lord before Me, because He is at My right hand , that I not be moved.
For this reason My heart rejoiced, and My tongue was glad; and My flesh also will dwell on hope,
because You will not leave My soul in Hades, nor will You give Your Holy One to see corruption.
You revealed to Me paths of life; You will fill Me with joy with Your face." LXX-Psa. 15:8-11; MT-Psa. 16:8-11
Men, brothers, it is permitted to say to you with plainness as to the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is among us until this day.
Being a prophet, then, and knowing that God swore with an oath to him that of the fruit of his loin, as concerning flesh, to raise the Christ to sit on his throne, see Psa. 132:11
foreseeing, he spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, "that His soul was not left in Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption." LXX-Psa. 15:10; Mt-Psa. 16:10
This Jesus God raised up, of which we all are witnesses.
Then being exalted to the right of God, and receiving the promise of the Holy Spirit from the Father, He poured out this which you now see and hear.
For David did not ascend into Heaven, but he says, "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand
until I place Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet." LXX-Psa. 109:1; MT-Psa. 110:1
Then assuredly, let all the house of Israel acknowledge that God made Him both Lord and Christ, this same Jesus whom you crucified.
And hearing, they were stabbed in the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men, brothers, What shall we do?
And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, each of you on the name of Jesus Christ to remission of sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
For the promise is to you and to your children, and to all those afar off, as many as the Lord our God shall call.
And with many other words he earnestly testified and exhorted, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation.
Then those who gladly welcomed his words were baptized. And about three thousand souls were added that day.
And they were continuing steadfastly in the doctrine of the apostles, and in fellowship, and in the breaking of bread, and in prayers.
And fear came to every soul, and many wonders and miracles took place through the apostles.
And all the believers were together and had all things common.
And they sold possessions and goods and distributed them to all, according as anyone had need.
And continuing steadfastly with one mind day by day in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they shared food in gladness and simplicity of heart,
praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church those being saved from day to day.