In the seventh month, in the twenty-first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came by Haggai the prophet, saying,
Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,
Who is left among you that saw this house in its former glory? And how do ye see it now? Is it not in your eyes as nothing?
Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, says Jehovah, and be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and be strong, all ye people of the land, says Jehovah, and work. For I am with you, says Jehovah of hosts,
according to the word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, and my Spirit abode among you. Fear ye not.
For thus says Jehovah of hosts: Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land.
And I will shake all nations, and the precious things of all nations shall come, and I will fill this house with glory, says Jehovah of hosts.
The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, says Jehovah of hosts.
The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says Jehovah of hosts, and in this place I will give peace, says Jehovah of hosts.
In the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Jehovah came by Haggai the prophet, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,
If a man bears holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt touches bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any food, shall it become holy? And the priests answered and said, No.
Then Haggai said, If a man who is unclean because of a dead body touches any of these, shall it be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean.
Then Haggai answered and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, says Jehovah, and so is every work of their hands. And that which they offer there is unclean.
And now, I pray you, consider from this day and backward, before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of Jehovah.
Through all that time, when a man came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten. When he came to the wine vat to draw out fifty vessels, there were but twenty.
I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the work of your hands, yet ye turned not to me, says Jehovah.
Consider, I pray you, from this day and backward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, since the day that the foundation of Jehovah's temple was laid, consider it.
Is the seed yet in the barn? Yea, the vine, and the fig tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive tree have not brought forth. From this day I will bless you.
And the word of Jehovah came the second time to Haggai in the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying,
Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth.
And I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations. And I will overthrow the chariots, and those who ride in them. And the horses and their riders shall come down, each one by the sword of his brother.
In that day, says Jehovah of hosts, I will take thee, O Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, says Jehovah, and will make thee as a signet. For I have chosen thee, says Jehovah of hosts.