The word of the LORD came to me, saying,
And you, son of man, take up a mourning for Tyre.
And say to Tyre, O you who are placed at the entrance of the sea, a merchant of the peoples for many coastlands, so says the Lord Jehovah: O Tyre, you have said, I am of perfect beauty.
Your borders are in the midst of the seas, your builders have perfected your beauty.
They have made all your ship boards of fir trees of Senir; they have taken cedars from Lebanon to make masts for you.
They have made the oaks of Bashan your oars; the daughter of Assyria has made your deck of ivory from the coasts of Kittim.
Your sale was of fine linen with embroidered work from Egypt, an ensign for you; violet and purple from the coasts of Elishah was your covering.
The residents of Sidon and Arvad were your seamen. Your wise ones, O Tyre, were in you, they were your sailors.
The elders of Gebal and her wise men were with you, reinforcing your seams. All the ships of the sea with their seamen were with you, to exchange your merchandise.
Persia and Lud and Lydia were in your army, your men of war. They hung the shield and helmet in you; they set your splendor.
The sons of Arvad and your army were on your walls all around, and warriors were in your towers. They hung their shields on your walls all around; they have made your beauty perfect.
Tarshish was your merchant because of the multitude of your wealth; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they gave for your wares.
Javan, Tubal, and Meshech were your merchants. They traded the souls of men and vessels of bronze for your goods.
From the house of Togarmah they gave horses and war-horses and mules for your wares.
The sons of Dedan were your merchants; many coastlands were the traffic of your hand. They brought as your gift tusks of ivory and ebony.
Syria was your merchant because of the multitude of your works; with emeralds, purple, and embroidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and rubies they gave for your wares.
Judah and the land of Israel were your merchants with wheat from Minnith and Pannag, and honey, and oil, and balm, they gave for your goods.
Damascus was your merchant in the multitude of your works, from the multitude of all riches, in the wine of Helbon, and white wool.
Dan and Javan also, going about, gave for your wares; smooth iron, cassia, and cane were among your goods.
Dedan was your merchant in loose cloths for riding.
Arabia, and all the rulers of Kedar were traders of your hand, in lambs, and rams, and goats; in them was your trade.
The merchants of Sheba and Raamah were your merchants, with the chief of all the spices, and with every precious stone, and gold they gave for your wares.
Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, Chilmad were your merchants.
They were your merchants in perfect things, in violet cloth, and embroidered work, and in carpets of many colors, with tightly bound cords, and cedars among your merchandise.
The ships of Tarshish were the travelers of your goods. And you were filled and made very glorious in the heart of the seas.
Your rowers have made you come into great waters; the east wind has broken you in the heart of the seas.
Your riches, and your wares, your goods, your seamen, and your sailors reinforcing your seams, and the traders of your goods, and all your men of war, who are in you, and all your company which is in your midst, shall fall into the heart of the seas in the day of your ruin.
At the sound of the cry of your sailors the open lands will shake.
And all who handle the oar, the mariners, all the sailors of the sea, shall come down from their ships. They shall stand on the land,
and shall cause their voice to be heard against you, and shall cry bitterly, and shall throw dust on their heads. They shall wallow themselves in the ashes.
And they will be bald for you, and gird with sackcloth. And they shall weep for you with bitterness of soul, a bitter wailing.
And in their wailing they shall lift up a lamentation and lament over you, saying, Who is like Tyre; as she who is quiet in the midst of the sea?
When your goods went out from the seas, you filled many people. With the plenty of your riches and your goods you enriched the kings of the earth.
At this time you are broken by the seas, in the depths of the waters, your goods and all your company in your midst have fallen.
All the residents of the coastlands are appalled at you, and their kings are horribly terrified; their faces tremble.
The merchants among the peoples hiss at you; you have become terrors. And you shall not be forever.