Now it came to pass after the death of Moses the servant of Jehovah, that Jehovah spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' minister, saying,
Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou, and all this people, to the land which I give to them, even to the sons of Israel.
Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, to you I have given it, as I spoke to Moses.
From the wilderness, and this Lebanon, even to the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and to the great sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your border.
There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.
Be strong and of good courage, for thou shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to give them.
Only be strong and very courageous to observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou may have good success wherever thou go.
This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shall meditate on it day and night, that thou may observe to do according to all that is written in it, for then thou shall make thy way prosperous, and then thou shall have good success.
Have I not commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage. Be not frightened, neither be thou dismayed, for Jehovah thy God is with thee wherever thou go.
Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,
Pass through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, Prepare food for you, for within three days ye are to pass over this Jordan to go in to possess the land, which Jehovah your God gives you to possess it.
And to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joshua spoke, saying,
Remember the word which Moses the servant of Jehovah commanded you, saying, Jehovah your God gives you rest, and will give you this land.
Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle, shall abide in the land which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan, but ye shall pass over before your brothers armed, all the mighty men of valor, and shall help them
until Jehovah has given your brothers rest, as you, and they also have possessed the land which Jehovah your God gives them. Then ye shall return to the land of your possession, and possess it, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise.
And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou have commanded us we will do, and wherever thou send us we will go.
According as we hearkened to Moses in all things, so will we hearken to thee. Only Jehovah thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses.
Whoever he is who shall rebel against thy commandment, and shall not hearken to thy words in all that thou command him, he shall be put to death. Only be strong and of good courage.