Him that is weak in the faith receive all of you, but not to doubtful disputations.
For one believes that he may eat all things: another, who is weak, eats herbs.
Let not him that eats despise him that eats not; and let not him which eats not judge him that eats: for God has received him.
Who are you that judge another man's servant? to his own master he stands or falls. Yea, he shall be held up: for God is able to make him stand.
One man esteems one day above another: another esteems every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.
He that regards the day, regards it unto the Lord; and he that regards not the day, to the Lord he does not regard it. He that eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks; and he that eats not, to the Lord he eats not, and gives God thanks.
For none of us lives to himself, and no man dies to himself.
For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's.
In order to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and living.
But why do you judge your brother? or why do you set at nothing your brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.
So then every one of us shall give account (o. logos) of himself to God.
Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way.
I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteems any thing to be unclean, to him it is unclean.
But if your brother be grieved with your food, now walk you not charitably. (o. agape) Destroy not him with your food, for whom Christ died.
Let not then your good be evil spoken of:
For the kingdom of God is not food and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. (o. pneuma)
For he that in these things serves Christ is acceptable to God, and approved of men.
Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another.
For food destroy not the work of God. All things indeed are pure; but it is evil for that man who eats with offence.
It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any thing whereby your brother stumbles, or is offended, or is made weak.
Have you faith? have it to yourself before God. Happy is he that condemns not himself in that thing which he allows.
And he that doubts is damned if he eat, because he eats not of faith: for whatsoever is not of faith is sin.