My son, deprive not the poor of his living,
And make not the needy eyes to wait long.

Make not a hungry soul sorrowful;
Neither provoke a man in his distress.

To a heart that is provoked add not more trouble;
And defer not to give to him that is in need.

Reject not a suppliant in his affliction;
And turn not away your face from a poor man.

Turn not away your eye from one that asks of you,
And give none occasion to a man to curse you:

For if he curse you in the bitterness of his soul,
He that made him will hear his supplication.

Get yourself the love of the congregation;
And to a great man bow your head.

Incline your ear to a poor man,
And answer him with peaceful words in meekness.

Deliver him that is wronged from the hand of him that wrongeth him;
And be not faint-hearted in giving judgement.

Be as a father to the fatherless,
And instead of a husband to their mother:
So shall you be as a son of the Most High,
And he shall love you more than your mother does.

Wisdom exalts her sons,
And takes hold of them that seek her.

He that loves her loves life;
And they that seek to her early shall be filled with gladness.

He that holds her fast shall inherit glory;
And where  he enters, the Lord will bless.

They that do her service shall minister to the Holy One;
And them that love her the Lord does love.

He that gives ear to her shall judge the nations;
And he that gives heed to her shall dwell securely.

If he trust her, he shall inherit her;
And his generations shall have her in possession.

For at the first she will walk with him in crooked ways,
And will bring fear and dread upon him,
And torment him with her discipline,
Until she may trust his soul, and try him by her judgements:

Then will she return again the straight way to him,
And will gladden him, and reveal to him her secrets.

If he go astray, she will forsake him,
And give him over  to his fall.

Observe the opportunity, and beware of  evil;
And be not ashamed concerning your soul.

For there is a shame that brings sin;
And there is a shame that is  glory and grace.

Accept not the person of any  against your soul;
And  reverence no man to your falling.

Refrain not speech,  when it tendeth to safety;
And hide not your wisdom for the sake of fair-seeming.

For by speech wisdom shall be known;
And instruction by the word of the tongue.

Speak not against the truth;
And be abashed for your ignorance.

Be not ashamed to make confession of your sins;
And force not the current of the river.

Lay not yourself down for a fool to tread upon;
And accept not the person of one that is mighty.

Strive for the truth to death, and the Lord God shall fight for you.

Be not  hasty in your tongue,
And in your deeds slack and remiss.

Be not as a lion in your house,
Nor fanciful among your servants.

Let not your hand be stretched out to receive, and  closed when you should repay.
