Futhermore there was a certaine man in Cesarea called Cornelius, a captaine of the band called the Italian band,
A deuoute man, and one that feared God with all his housholde, which gaue much almes to the people, and prayed God continually.
He sawe in a vision euidently (about the ninth houre of the day) an Angel of God comming in to him, and saying vnto him, Cornelius.
But when hee looked on him, hee was afrayd, and sayd, What is it, Lord? and he sayd vnto him, Thy prayers and thine almes are come vp into remembrance before God.
Nowe therefore send men to Ioppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter.
Hee lodgeth with one Simon a Tanner, whose house is by the sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to doe.
And when the Angel which spake vnto Cornelius, was departed, he called two of his seruants, and a souldier that feared God, one of them that waited on him,
And tolde them all things, and sent them to Ioppa.
On the morow as they went on their iourney, and drew neere vnto the citie, Peter went vp vpon the house to pray, about the sixt houre.
Then waxed hee an hungred, and would haue eaten: but while they made some thing ready, he fell into a trance.
And hee sawe heauen opened, and a certaine vessell come downe vnto him, as it had bene a great sheete, knit at the foure corners, and was let downe to the earth.
Wherein were all maner of foure footed beastes of the earth, and wilde beastes and creeping things, and foules of the heauen.
And there came a voyce to him, Arise, Peter: kill, and eate.
But Peter sayd, Not so, Lord: for I haue neuer eaten any thing that is polluted, or vncleane.
And the voyce spake vnto him againe the second time, The things that God hath purified, pollute thou not.
This was so done thrise: and the vessell was drawen vp againe into heauen.
Nowe while Peter douted in himselfe what this vision which he had seene, meant, beholde, the men which were sent from Cornelius, had inquired for Simons house, and stoode at the gate,
And called, and asked, whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged there.
And while Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit sayde vnto him, Beholde, three men seeke thee.
Arise therefore, and get thee downe, and goe with them, and doute nothing: For I haue sent them.
Then Peter went downe to the men, which were sent vnto him from Cornelius, and sayd, Beholde, I am he whome ye seeke: what is the cause wherefore ye are come?
And they sayd, Cornelius the captaine, a iust man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the nation of the Iewes, was warned from heauen by an holy Angel, to send for thee into his house, and to heare thy wordes.
Then called he them in, and lodged them, and the next day, Peter went foorth with them, and certaine brethren from Ioppa accompanied him.
And the day after, they entred into Cesarea. Nowe Cornelius waited for them, and had called together his kinsemen, and special friends.
And it came to passe as Peter came in, that Cornelius met him, and fell downe at his feete, and worshipped him.
But Peter tooke him vp, saying, Stand vp: for euen I my selfe am a man.
And as he talked with him, he came in, and found many that were come together.
And he sayd vnto them, Ye know that it is an vnlawfull thing for a man that is a Iewe, to company, or come vnto one of another nation: but God hath shewed me, that I should not call any man polluted, or vncleane.
Therefore came I vnto you without saying nay, when I was sent for. I aske therefore, for what intent haue ye sent for me?
Then Cornelius sayd, Foure dayes agoe, about this houre, I fasted, and at the ninth houre I prayed in mine house, and beholde, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
And sayd, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine almes are had in remembrance in the sight of God.
Send therefore to Ioppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter (he is lodged in the house of Simon a Tanner by the sea side) who when he commeth, shall speake vnto thee.
Then sent I for thee immediately, and thou hast well done to come. Nowe therefore are we all here present before God, to heare all things that are commanded thee of God.
Then Peter opened his mouth, and sayd, Of a trueth I perceiue, that God is no accepter of persons.
But in euery nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousnesse, is accepted with him.
Ye know the worde which God hath sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace by Iesus Christ, which is Lord of all:
Euen the worde which came through all Iudea, beginning in Galile, after the baptisme which Iohn preached.
To wit, howe God anointed Iesus of Nazareth with the holy Ghost, and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the deuill: for God was with him.
And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land of the Iewes, and in Hierusalem, whom they slewe, hanging him on a tree.
Him God raysed vp the third day, and caused that he was shewed openly:
Not to all the people, but vnto the witnesses chosen before of God, euen to vs which did eate and drinke with him, after he arose from the dead.
And he commanded vs to preach vnto the people, and to testifie, that it is he that is ordained of God a iudge of quicke and dead.
To him also giue all the Prophets witnesse, that through his Name all that beleeue in him, shall receiue remission of sinnes.
While Peter yet spake these wordes, the holy Ghost fell on al them which heard the word.
So they of the circumcision which beleeued, were astonied, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was powred out the gift of the holy Ghost.
For they heard them speake with tongues, and magnifie God. Then answered Peter,
Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which haue receiued the holy Ghost, as well as we?
So he commanded them to be baptized in the Name of the Lord. Then prayed they him to tary certaine dayes.