And the man knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain and said, I have gained a man by the LORD.
And she again bore his brother Abel. And Abel was a pastor of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
And in process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground a present unto the LORD.
And Abel, he also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD looked upon Abel and his present,
but he did not look upon Cain and his present. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
Then the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?
If thou doest good, it shall certainly be accepted; and if thou doest not good, sin lies at the door. And his desire shall be unto thee, but thou must rule over him.
And Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him.
And the LORD said unto Cain, Where [is] Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not, [Am] I my brother's keeper?
And he said, What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood cries unto me from the ground.
And now thou [art] cursed from the earth, which has opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand;
when thou tillest the ground, from now on it shall not yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.
And Cain said unto the LORD, My iniquity [is] greater than I can bear.
Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from thy face shall I hide; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass [that] anyone that finds me shall slay me.
And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whoever slays Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden.
And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch; and he built a city and called the name of the city after the name of his son, Enoch.
And unto Enoch was born Irad, and Irad begat Mehujael, and Mehujael begat Methusael, and Methusael begat Lamech.
And Lamech took unto him two wives; the name of the one [was] Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
And Adah bore Jabal; he was the father of those who dwell in tents and [of those who have] cattle.
And his brother's name [was] Jubal; he was the father of all those who play the harp and organ.
And Zillah also bore Tubalcain, an instructor of every artificer in brass and iron; and the sister of Tubalcain [was] Naamah.
And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech, for I shall slay a man for my wound and a young man for my hurt;
if Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy times seven.
And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and called his name Seth; for God, [said she], has appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.
And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos. Then men began to call upon the name of the LORD.: