So says Jehovah to His anointed, to Cyrus, whom I have seized by his right hand, to subdue nations before him. Yea, I will open the loins of kings, to open the two leaved doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut.
I will go before you and make hills level; I will tear apart the bronze doors, and cut the iron bars in two.
And I will give you the treasures of darkness, even treasures in secret places, that you may know that I am Jehovah, who calls you by your name, the God of Israel.
For My servant Jacob's sake, and for Israel My chosen, I even call you by your name. I name you, but you do not know Me.
I am Jehovah, and there is none else; there is no God except Me. I will clothe you, though you do not know Me,
that they may know from the rising of the sun, and to the sunset, that there is none besides Me; I am Jehovah, and there is none else;
forming light, and creating darkness; making peace, and creating evil.
Drop down from above, O heavens; and let the clouds pour down righteousness. Let the earth open and let salvation bear fruit; and let righteousness sprout together. I, Jehovah have created it.
Woe to him who fights with the One who formed him! A potsherd among the potsherds of the earth! Shall the clay say to its former, What are you making? Or does your work say, He has no hands?
Woe to him who says to a father, What are you fathering? Or to the woman, What are you laboring over?
So says Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, and the One who formed him, Do you ask Me of the things to come? Do you give command to Me about My sons, and about the work of My hands?
I have made the earth, and created man on it. I stretched out the heavens with My hands; and I have set all their host in order.
I raised him up in righteousness, and have made straight all his ways. He shall build My city, and he will release My captives; not for price, nor for reward, says Jehovah of Hosts.
So says Jehovah, The labor of Egypt, and the goods of Ethiopia, and of the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come to you; and they shall be yours. They shall come after you; they shall cross in chains; and they shall bow to you; they shall plead to you. Surely God is in you, and there is none else, no other God.
Truly, You are a God who hides Himself, O God of Israel, the Savior.
They shall be ashamed, and also are disgraced, all of them. Together they go into disgrace, carvers of images.
Israel is saved in Jehovah with everlasting salvation. You shall not be ashamed nor disgraced to the forevers of eternity.
For so says Jehovah, Creator of the heavens; He is God, forming the earth and making it; He makes it stand, not creating it empty, but forming it to be inhabited. I am Jehovah, and there is none else.
I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth. I did not say to Jacob's seed, Seek Me in vain. I Jehovah speak righteousness, declaring right things.
Gather yourselves and come; draw near together, escaped ones of the nations; the ones who set up the wood of their carved image, and the ones who pray to a god who cannot save; they know nothing.
Declare and bring near; yea, let them consult together. Who has revealed this of old; who has told it from then? Is it not I, Jehovah? And there is no God other than Me; a just God and a Savior; there is none except Me.
Turn to Me and be saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is no other.
I have sworn by Myself, the word has gone out of My mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, that to Me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear.
He shall say, Only in Jehovah do I have righteousness and strength; to Him he comes; and they are ashamed, all who are angry with Him.
In Jehovah all of the seed of Israel shall be justified, and shall glory.