Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And sons were born to them after the flood.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer and Magog and Madai and Javan and Tubal and Meshech and Tiras.
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah.
And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish and Kittim and Dodanim.
By these were the coasts of the nations divided in their lands, every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.
And the sons of Ham: Cush and Mizraim and Phut and Canaan.
And the sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah and Sabtah and Raamah and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
And Cush fathered Nimrod. He began to be a mighty one in the earth.
He was a mighty hunter before the LORD. Therefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
Out of that land he went forth to Assyria. And he built Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah,
and Resen between Nineveh and Calah, which is a great city.
And Mizraim fathered Ludim and Anamim and Lehabim and Naphtuhim,
and Pathrusim and Casluhim (from whom came the Philistines) and Caphtorim.
And Canaan fathered Sidon, his first-born, and Heth,
and the Jebusite and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. And afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread abroad.
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon (as you come to Gerar) to Gaza, as you go in towards Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboim, even to Lasha.
These were the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.
And to Shem were born, even him, the father of all the sons of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder.
The sons of Shem: Elam and Asshur and Arpachshad and Lud and Aram.
And the sons of Aram: Uz and Hul and Gether and Mash,
And Arpachshad fathered Salah; and Salah fathered Eber.
And two sons were born to Eber. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided. And his brother's name was Joktan.
And Joktan fathered Almodad and Sheleph and Hazarmaveth and Jerah,
and Hadoram and Uzal and Diklah,
and Obal and Abimael and Sheba,
and Ophir and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as you go to Sephar, a mountain of the east.
These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, and after their nations.
These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations. And from these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.