Having said these things, Jesus went out with His disciples across the winter stream Kidron, where there was a garden into which He and His disciples entered.
And Judas, the one betraying Him, also knew the place, because Jesus many times assembled there with His disciples.
Then receiving a cohort and under-officers from among the chief priests and the Pharisees, Judas came there with torches and lamps and weapons.
Then knowing all the things coming upon Him, going forth, Jesus said to them, Whom do you seek?
They answered Him, Jesus the Nazarene. Jesus said to them, I AM! And Judas, the one betraying Him, also stood with them.
Then when He said to them, I AM, they departed into the rear and fell to the ground.
Then again He asked, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene.
Jesus answered, I told you that I AM; then if you seek Me, allow these to depart,
(that the Word might be fulfilled which He said, " Of those whom You gave to Me, I lost not one of them)."
Then having a sword, Simon Peter drew it and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear. And the slave's name was Malchus.
Then Jesus said to Peter, Put your sword into the sheath: the cup which the Father has given Me, shall I not at all drink it?
Then the cohort, even the commander and the under-officers of the Jews together, seized Jesus and bound Him.
And they led Him away first to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest of that year.
And Caiaphas was the one who had given counsel to the Jews that it was advantageous for one man to perish for the people.
And Simon Peter and another disciple followed Jesus, and that disciple was known to the high priest and entered together with Jesus into the court of the high priest,
but Peter stood at the door outside. The other disciple who was known to the high priest went out and spoke to the doorkeeper, and brought Peter in.
Then the slave woman, the doorkeeper, said to Peter, Are you not also of the disciples of this man? That one said, I am not.
Now the slaves and the under-officers were standing and warming themselves , having made a fire of coals, for it was cold; and Peter was with them, standing and warming himself .
Then the high priest questioned Jesus about His disciples and about His doctrine.
Jesus answered him, I publicly spoke to the world; I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple where the Jews always come together, and I spoke nothing in secret.
Why do you question Me? Question those hearing what I spoke to them: behold, these know what I said!
But on His having said these things, one of the under-officers standing by gave Jesus a blow with the palm, saying, Do you answer the high priest this way?
Jesus answered him, If I spoke evilly, bear witness concerning the evil; but if well, why do you strike Me?
Then having bound Him , Annas sent Him forth to Caiaphas the high priest.
And Simon Peter was standing and warming himself . Then they said to him, Are you not also of His disciples? He denied and said, I am not.
One of the slaves of the high priest, being a relative of the one whose ear Peter cut off, said, Did I not see you in the garden with Him?
Then again Peter denied, and immediately a cock crowed.
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium, and it was early. And they did not enter into the praetorium that they might not be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover.
Then Pilate went out to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man?
They answered and said to him, If this one were not an evildoer, then we would not have delivered him to you.
Then Pilate said to them, You take him and judge him according to your own Law. Then the Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death,
(that the word of Jesus which He said might be fulfilled, signifying by what kind of death He was about to die).
Then Pilate again went into the praetorium and called Jesus, and said to Him, Are you the king of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Do you say this from yourself, or did others tell you about Me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your nation, even the chief priests, delivered you up to me! What did you do?
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My servants would have fought that I might not be delivered up to the Jews. But now My kingdom is not from here.
Then Pilate said to Him, Are you really a king? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this purpose I have been born, and for this I have come into the world, that I might witness to the Truth. Everyone being of the Truth hears My voice.
Pilate said to Him, What is truth? And saying this, he again went out to the Jews and said to them, I do not find even one crime in him!
But there is a common custom to you that I should release one prisoner to you at the Passover. Then you decide: should I release the king of the Jews to you?
Then all cried out again, saying, Not this one, but Barabbas! But Barabbas was a robber.