And looking up, He saw the rich ones putting their gifts into the treasury.
And He also saw a certain poor widow putting two lepta there.
And He said, Truly I say to you this poor widow put in more than all.
For all these out of their abundance put into the gifts to God, but she out of her poverty put in all the living which she had.
And as some were speaking about the temple, that it had been adorned with beautiful stones and gifts, He said,
As to these things that you see, days will come in which a stone will not be left on a stone, which will not be thrown down.
And they asked Him, saying, Teacher, then when will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things are about to happen?
And He said, Watch that you not be led astray. For many will come on My name, saying, I AM! Also, The time has come! Do not go after them.
And when you hear of wars and disturbances, do not be afraid. For these things must first occur, but the end is not at once.
Then He said to them, Nation will be lifted up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
Also there will be great earthquakes from place to place, and famines, and plagues. And also there will be terrors and great signs from Heaven.
But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you, and will persecute you , delivering you into the synagogues and prisons, being led away before kings and governors on account of My name.
But it will return to you for a testimony.
Then put into your hearts not to premeditate to make a defense.
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all those opposing you will not be able to withstand or contradict.
But you will be betrayed also by parents, and brothers, and relatives, and friends. And they will put some of you to death.
And you will be hated by all because of My name.
And a hair of your head shall in no way perish.
By your patience you will gain your souls.
And when you see Jerusalem being encircled by armies, then recognize that its destruction has come near.
Then let those in Judea flee into the mountains; and those in its midst, let them go out. And those in the open spaces, let them not go into her.
For these are days of vengeance when all things that have been written are to be fulfilled.
But woe to the pregnant women, and the ones suckling in those days; for great distress will be on the earth and wrath on this people.
And they will fall by the mouth of the sword and will be led captive to all the nations. And Jerusalem will be trodden down by nations, until the times of the nations are fulfilled.
And there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars. And on the earth will be anxiety of nations with bewilderment, roaring of sea and of surf,
men fainting from fear, and expectation of the things coming on the earth. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
And then they will see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and much glory. Dan. 7:13
But when these things begin to happen, stand up and lift up your heads, because your redemption draws near.
And He spoke a parable to them: You see the fig tree and all the trees.
Now when they sprout leaves, seeing it , you will know from yourselves that now the summer is near.
So also when you see these things happening, you know that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I say to you, In no way will this generation pass away until all these things shall occur.
The heaven and the earth will pass away, but My words in no way will pass away.
But take heed to yourselves that your hearts not be loaded down with headaches, and drinking, and anxieties of life, and that day come suddenly upon you
as a snare, for it will come in on all those sitting on the face of all the earth. Isa. 24:17
Then be watchful at every time, begging that you be counted worthy to escape all these things which are about to happen, and to stand before the Son of man.
And in the days, He was teaching in the temple. And going out in the nights, He lodged in the Mount of Olives.
And all the people came early to Him in the temple, to hear Him.