Josiah was a son of eight years when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty one years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Boscath.
And he did the good in the eyes of Jehovah, and walked in all the way of his father David, and did not turn aside to the right or the left.
And it happened, in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of Jehovah, saying,
Go to Hilkiah the high priest, and he shall count the silver that is brought into the house of Jehovah that the keepers of the door have gathered from the people.
And they will give into the hand of the workers, those who oversee in the house of Jehovah; and they shall give it to the doers of the work who are in the house of Jehovah, to strengthen the breaks of the house;
to the carpenters, and to the builders, and to the masons, and to buy wood and cut stone to strengthen the house;
only, the silver that is given into their hand shall not be reckoned with them, for they are dealing in faithfulness.
And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the Book of the Law in the house of Jehovah; and Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
And Shaphan the scribe came to the king and brought back word to the king, and said, Your servants have poured out the silver that has been found in the house, and have given it into the hand of the doers of the work, those who oversee in the house of Jehovah.
And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has given a book to me; and Shaphan read it before the king.
And it happened when the king heard the words of the Book of the Law, he tore his garments.
And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asahiah the king's servant, saying,
Go, inquire of Jehovah for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, as to the words of this book that has been found; for great is the wrath of Jehovah that has been kindled against us, because our fathers have not listened to the words of this book, to do according to all that which is written concerning us.
And Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asahiah, went to Huldah the prophetess the wife of Shallum, the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, the keeper of the wardrobe (and she lived in Jerusalem, in the second quarter ). And they spoke with her.
And she said to them, So says Jehovah, the God of Israel, Tell the man that sent you to me,
So says Jehovah, Behold, I will bring evil on this place, and on its inhabitants, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read;
because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore My wrath shall be kindled against this place, and shall not be quenched.
And to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, you shall say this to him, So says Jehovah, the God of Israel, the words that you have heard,
(because your heart was tender, and you have bowed before Jehovah when you heard what I spoke against this place, and against its inhabitants, to become a desolation and a curse, and have torn your clothes, and have wept before Me;) even also I have heard, says Jehovah.
Behold! Even so I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered into your grave in peace; and your eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring on this place. And they brought back this word to the king.