And it was the Passover, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread after two days. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might get hold of Him by guile, to kill Him .
But they said, Not during the Feast, lest there will be a tumult of the people.
And He being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as He reclined, a woman came, having an alabaster vial of pure, costly ointment of nard. And breaking the alabaster vial, she poured it down His head.
And some were being indignant to themselves, and saying, To what has this waste of the ointment occurred?
For this could be sold for over three hundred denarii, and to be given to the poor. And they were incensed with her.
But Jesus said, Let her alone. Why do you cause her troubles? She worked a good work toward Me.
For you have the poor with you always, and when you wish, you can do well toward them. But you do not have Me always.
What this one held, she did. She took beforehand to anoint My body for the burial.
Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel is proclaimed in all the world, what this one did will also be spoken of for a memorial of her.
And Judas Iscariot, one of the Twelve, went away to the chief priests, that he might betray Him to them.
And hearing, they rejoiced and promised to give him silver. And he sought how he might opportunely betray Him.
And on the first day of the Unleavened Bread , when they killed the passover, His disciples said to Him, Where do You desire that going we may prepare that You may eat the passover?
And He sent two of His disciples, and said to them, Go into the city. And you will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him.
And wherever he goes in, say to the housemaster, The Teacher says, Where is the guest room where I may eat the passover with My disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room, having been spread and made ready. Prepare for us there.
And His disciples went out and came into the city and found it as He told them. And they prepared the Passover.
And evening having come, He came with the Twelve.
And as they were reclining and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, One of you will betray Me, the one eating with Me.
And they began to be grieved, and to say to Him one by one, Not at all I, is it ? And another, Not at all I, is it ?
But answering, He said to them, It is one from the Twelve, the one dipping in the dish with Me.
Truly the Son of man goes as it has been written concerning Him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! It were good for him if that man had never been born.
And as they were eating, Jesus taking a loaf, blessing, He broke and gave to them. And He said, Take, eat, this is My body.
And taking the cup, giving thanks, He gave to them. And they all drank out of it.
And He said to them, This is My blood, that of the New Covenant, which is poured out concerning many.
Truly I say to you, I will not at all drink of the fruit of the vine any more until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And singing a hymn, they went to the Mount of Olives.
And Jesus said to them, All of you will be offended in Me in this night, because it has been written: "I will strike the Shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered." Zech. 13:7
But after My resurrection , I will go before you into Galilee.
But Peter said to Him, Even if all shall be offended, yet not I.
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that today, in this night, before a cock crows twice, you will deny Me three times.
But he said more fervently, If it were needful for me to die with You, in no way will I deny You. And also all said the same.
And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane. And He said to His disciples, Sit here while I pray.
And He took along Peter and James and John with Him. And He began to be much amazed and to be deeply troubled.
And He said to them, My soul is deeply grieved, unto death. Remain here and watch.
And going forward a little, He fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass from Him.
And He said, Abba, Father, all things are possible to You; take this cup from Me. Yet not what I will, but what You will .
And He came and found them sleeping. And He said to Peter, Simon, do you sleep? Were you not strong enough to watch one hour?
Watch and pray, that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit truly is willing, but the flesh is weak.
And going away again, He prayed, saying the same thing.
And returning, He found them sleeping again, for their eyes were heavy. And they did not know what to answer Him.
And He came a third time, and said to them, Sleep on now, and rest. It is enough. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Rise up, let us go. Behold, the one betraying Me has drawn near.
And at once, as He was yet speaking, Judas came up, being one of the Twelve. And with him was a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
And the one betraying Him had given them a sign, saying, Whomever I kiss, it is He; seize Him and lead Him away safely.
And coming, at once drawing near to Him, he said, Rabbi, Rabbi! And he ardently kissed Him.
And they laid their hands on Him and seized Him.
But a certain one of those standing by, drawing a sword, struck the slave of the high priest and took off his ear.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Have you come out with swords and clubs to take Me, as against a robber?
I was with you daily teaching in the temple, and you did not seize Me. But it is that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.
And leaving Him, all fled.
And one, a certain young man, was following Him, having thrown a linen cloth about his naked body . And the young men seized him.
But forsaking the linen cloth, he fled from them naked.
And they led Jesus away to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together to him.
And Peter followed Him from a distance, to the inside of the court of the high priest. And he was sitting with the under-officers, also warming himself near the light.
And the chief priests and the whole sanhedrin sought testimony against Jesus, to put Him to death. And they found none.
For many falsely testified against Him, but the testimonies were not identical.
And standing up, some falsely testified against Him, saying,
We heard Him saying, I will throw down this temple made with hands, and through three days I will build another not made with hands.
And neither in this was their testimony identical.
And standing in the middle, the high priest questioned Jesus, saying, Do you not answer? Nothing? What do these testify against you?
But He was silent and answered nothing. Again the high priest questioned Him, and said to Him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
And Jesus said, I AM! And you will see the Son of man sitting off the right hand of power, and coming with the clouds of the heaven. Psa. 110:1; Dan. 7:13
And tearing his garments, the high priest said, Why do we still have need of witnesses?
You heard the blasphemy. What does it seem to you? And they all condemned Him to be liable, even of death.
And some began to spit at Him, and to cover His face, and to beat Him with a fist, and to say to Him, Prophesy! And the under-officers struck Him with slaps.
And Peter being in the court below, one of the high priest's female slaves came.
And seeing Peter warming himself, looking at him, she said, And you were with Jesus the Nazarene.
But he denied, saying, I do not know nor understand what you say. And he went out into the forecourt. And a cock crowed.
And seeing him again, the female slave began to say to those standing by, This one is of them.
And again he denied. And after a little, those standing by again said to Peter, Truly you are from them, for you are both a Galilean and your speech agrees.
But he began to curse and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak.
And a second time a cock crowed. And Peter remembered the word Jesus said to him, Before a cock crows twice, you will deny Me three times. And thinking on it , he wept.