But having become morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people held consultation against Jesus in order to condemn him to death.
And having bound him, they led him away and delivered him to Pontius Pilate the governor.
Then Judas, who betrayed him, after seeing that he was condemned, having repented, he brought back the thirty silver pieces to the chief priests and elders,
saying, I sinned, having betrayed innocent blood. But they said, What is it to us? See thou to it.
And having cast down the silver pieces in the temple, he departed, and after going away, he hanged himself.
And after taking the silver pieces, the chief priests said, It is not permitted to put them into the treasury, since it is a price of blood.
And having held consultation, they bought the potter's field with them for burial for foreigners.
Therefore that field was called the field of blood, to this day.
Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, which says, And they took the thirty silver pieces, the price of him who was valued, whom they valued from the sons of Israel,
and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord appointed me.
Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor questioned him, saying, Are thou the king of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, Thou say.
And when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing.
Then Pilate says to him, Do thou not hear how many things they testify against thee?
And he did not answer him, not even one word, so as for the governor to marvel greatly.
Now during a feast the governor had been accustomed to release to the crowd one prisoner whom they wanted.
And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas.
When therefore they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do ye want I should release to you? Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?
For he knew that they delivered him up because of envy.
And while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, There is nothing for thee and that righteous man. For I suffered many things this day in a dream because of him.
But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus.
Now the governor having answered, he said to them, Which of the two do ye want I would release to you? And they said, Barabbas.
Pilate says to them, What then shall I do to Jesus who is called Christ? They all say to him, He should be crucified.
And the governor said, For what evil has he done? But they cried out even more, saying, He should be crucified.
And when Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather an uproar was developing, after taking water, he washed his hands in front of the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this righteous man. See ye to it.
And having answered, all the people said, His blood be on us, and on our children.
Then he released Barabbas to them, and having scourged Jesus he delivered him so that he would be crucified.
Then the soldiers of the governor, having taken Jesus into the Praetorium, gathered the whole band to him.
And having stripped him, they put a scarlet robe on him.
And having woven a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand. And having knelt down before him, they ridiculed him, saying, Hail, king of the Jews!
And having spat upon him, they took the reed and were striking him on his head.
And after they ridiculed him, they took the robe off of him, and put his clothes on him, and led him away in order to crucify.
And while coming out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They drafted this man, so that he might take his cross.
And having come to a place called Golgotha, that is called, the place of a skull,
they gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall. And having tasted it, he would not drink.
And when they crucified him, they divided his garments, casting a lot.
And as they sat, they keep watch over him there.
And they set up over his head his accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then two robbers are crucified with him, one at the right hand and one at the left.
And those who passed by reviled him, shaking their heads,
and saying, Thou who destroy the temple, and build it in three days, save thyself. If thou are the Son of God, come down from the cross.
And likewise also the chief priests, ridiculing with the scholars, and elders, and Pharisees, said,
He saved others, he cannot save himself. If he is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in him.
He trusted in God, let him rescue him now, if he wants him, for he said, I am the Son of God.
And also the robbers who were crucified with him reviled him the same way.
Now from the sixth hour darkness developed over all the land until the ninth hour.
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out in a great voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? That is, My God, my God, why have thou forsaken me?
And some of those who stood there, when they heard it, said, This man calls Elijah.
And straightaway one of them, after running, and having taken a sponge, and having filled it with vinegar, put it on a reed, and gave him to drink.
But the others said, Leave thou be. We might see if Elijah comes he will save him.
And Jesus, having cried out again in a great voice, yielded up his spirit.
And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom, and the earth quaked, and the rocks split,
and the sepulchers were opened, and many bodies of the sanctified who have been asleep arose.
And having come forth out of the sepulchers after his resurrection they entered into the holy city and appeared to many.
Now the centurion, and those with him watching over Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and the things that happened, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God.
And many women were there watching from afar, who followed Jesus from Galilee, serving him,
among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
And having become evening, there came a rich man from Arimathaea, named Joseph, who also himself was discipled by Jesus.
This man having come to Pilate, requested the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given.
And Joseph having taken the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
and laid it in his own new sepulcher, which he hewed out in the rock. And having rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulcher, he departed.
And Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary were there, sitting opposite the tomb.
Now on the morrow, which is after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees came together to Pilate,
saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said while he was still alive, After three days I am raised.
Command therefore to secure the tomb until the third day, lest his disciples having come by night steal him away, and say to the people, He was raised from the dead. And the last error will be worse than the first.
Pilate said to them, Ye have security. Go, make it as secure as ye know how.
And having gone, they made the tomb secure, with the security having sealed the stone.