And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel and thou shall say unto them—When any man would consecrate and pay a vow by thine estimate of lives unto Yahweh,
then shall, thine estimate be for the male from twenty years of age even to sixty years of age, yea thine estimate shall be—fifty shekels of silver by the shekel of the sanctuary;
but if it be, a female, then shall thine estimate be thirty shekels.
And, if it be from five years of age even unto twenty years of age, then shall thine estimate be for the male, twenty shekels,—and, for the female, ten shekels.
And, if it be from a month old even unto five years old, then shall thine estimate be—for the male, five shekels of silver,—and, for the female, thine estimate [shall be] three shekels of silver.
And if it be from sixty years of age and upwards, if a male, then shall thine estimate be fifteen shekels,—and, for the female, ten shekels.
But if he be, too poor, for thine estimate, then shall he present himself before the priest, and the priest shall estimate him,—according to that which the hand of him who would vow can attain to, shall the priest estimate him.
And if it be a beast whereof men may bring near an oblation unto Yahweh, all that whereof aught is given to Yahweh, shall be holy.
He shall not alter it, nor change it—good for bad or bad for good,—but if he, do, change beast for beast, then shall, both it and what was given in exchange for it be holy.
And, if it be any unclean beast whereof men may not bring near an oblation to Yahweh, then shall he present the beast before the priest:
and the priest shall estimate it, whether it is good or bad,—according to thine estimate, O priest, so, shall it be.
But if he should please to redeem, it, then shall he add the fifth part thereof unto thine estimate.
And, when, any man, would hallow his house to be holy unto Yahweh, then shall the priest estimate it, whether it is good or bad,—as the priest shall estimate it, so, shall it stand.
But, if he that halloweth it, would redeem his house, then shall he add the fifth part of the silver of thine estimate thereunto and it shall be his.
And if of the field of his possession any man would hallow unto Yahweh, then shall thine estimate be according to the seed thereof,—the seed of a homer of barley, at fifty shekels of silver.
If, from the year of jubilee, he would hallow his field, according to thine estimate, shall it stand.
But if after the jubilee he would hallow his field, then shall the priest reckon to him the silver, according to the years that remain, until the year of the jubilee,—and it shall be abated from thine estimate.
But, if he that hath hallowed it should be pleased to redeem, the field, then shall he add the fifth part of the silver of thine estimate thereunto and it shall be assured to him.
But if he will not redeem the field, but have sold the field to another man, it shall be redeemable no longer;
so shall the field, when it goeth out in the jubilee, be holy unto Yahweh as a devoted, field,—to the priest, shall belong the possession thereof.
If, however, a field that he hath bought, which is not of the fields of his possession, he would hallow unto Yahweh,
then shall the priest reckon to him the amount of thine estimate until the year of the jubilee,—and he shall give thine estimate, in that day, as holy unto Yahweh.
In the year of the jubilee, shall the field return unto him from whom he bought it to him whose it was as a possession in the land.
And, every estimate of thine, shall be by the holy shekel,—twenty gerahs, make the shekel.
Only the firstling which is born a firstling to Yahweh, among beasts, no man shall hallow it,—whether ox or sheep, unto Yahweh, it belongeth.
But, if it be among the beasts that are unclean, then shall he ransom it by thine estimate, and add the fifth part of it thereunto,—but, if it is not redeemed, then shall it be sold by thine estimate.
Only no devoted thing which any man shall devote unto Yahweh, of all that belongeth to him,—of man or beast, or of the field of his possession, shall be either sold or redeemed,—as to every devoted thing, most holy, it is unto Yahweh.
As touching any one devoted, who may be devoted from among men he shall not be ransomed,—he must be, surely put to death.
And, as for all the tithe of the land whether of the seed of the land, [or] of the fruit of the trees, unto Yahweh, it belongeth,—as something holy unto Yahweh.
But, if any man should be pleased, to redeem, aught of his tithes, the fifth part thereof, shall he add thereunto.
And, as for all the tithe of herd and flock, all that passeth under the rod, the tenth, shall be holy unto Yahweh.
He shall not examine whether it be good or bad neither shall he change it,—or, if he do in anywise change, it, then shall both, it and what is given in exchange for it, be holy, it shall not be redeemed.
These are the commandments which Yahweh commanded Moses for the sons of Israel,—in Mount Sinai.