And certain men came down from Judea, and taught the brethren, saying: Unless you be circumcised, according to the custom of Moses, you can not be saved.
Therefore, after Paul and Barnabas had no little dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain others from among them, should go up to Jerusalem, to the apostles and elders, about this question.
Being, therefore, con ducted on their journey by the church, they passed through Phenicia and Samaria, making known the conversion of the Gentiles; and they gave great joy to all the brethren.
When they arrived at Jerusalem, they were received by the church, and the apostles and elders, and they declared all that God had done with them.
But some of the sect of the Pharisees, who believed, arose, saying, that it was necessary to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.
And the apostles and elders came together to deliberate about this matter.
And after there had been much disputing, Peter arose, and said to them: Brethren, you know that, at the beginning, God made choice among us, that, by my mouth, the Gentiles should hear the word of the Gospel, and believe.
And God, who knows the heart, became a witness for them, by giving them the Holy Spirit, as he gave it also to us;
and he made no distinction between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Now, therefore, why do you put God to the proof, by placing a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers, nor we ourselves, were able to bear?
But we believe that we shall be saved, even as they, through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Then all the multitude kept silence, and listened to Barnabas and Paul, while they made known what signs and wonders God had done by them among the Gentiles.
And after they were silent, James answered and said: Brethren, hear me;
Simeon has declared how God, at the first, did visit the Gentiles, in order to take out from among them a people for his name.
And with this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,
After this I will return, and build again the tabernacle of David which has fallen down; and I will build again its ruins, and I will set it up;
that the rest of men may seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name has been called, says the Lord, who does all these things.
Known to God from eternity are all bis works.
For these reasons, my judgment is, that we give no trouble to those who, from among the Gentiles, have turned to God;
but that we write to them to abstain from pollutions of idols, and from lewdness, and from what is strangled, and from blood.
For, from ancient times, Moses has, in every city, those who preach him, being read in the synagogue every sabbath-day.
Then it pleased the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to send to Antioch, with Paul and Barnabas, chosen men from among themselves; Judas, who was surnamed Barsabas, and Silas, chief men among the brethren;
and they wrote by their hands as follows:   The apostles, and the elders, and the brethren, to the brethren of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greeting:
Inasmuch as we have heard that certain persons went out from us and troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, That you must be circumcised, and keep the law, to whom we gave no commandment,
it has seemed good to us, having come together with one mind, to send chosen men to you, with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have endangered their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We have sent, therefore, Judas and Silas, who will tell you the same things in word.
For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things:
That you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from lewdness; from which if you keep yourselves carefully, you will do well. Farewell.
So when these men were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and having assembled the multitude, they delivered this letter.
When they had read it, they rejoiced for the consolation which it gave.
And Judas and Silas, who were also prophets, exhorted the brethren with many words, and strengthened them.
And after spending some time, they were dismissed in peace from the brethren, to those who had sent them.
But it pleased Silas to remain there.
Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching, with many others, the word of the Lord.
And, after some days, Paul said to Barnabas, let us return, and visit our brethren in every city in which we have preached the word of the Lord, and see how they do.
And Barnabas determined to take with him John, whose surname was Mark.
But Paul did not think it proper to take with them him who had departed from them from Pamphylia, and did not go with them to the work.
There was, therefore, a sharp contention, so that they separated from each other: and Barnabas took Mark, and sailed to Cyprus.
But Paul chose Silas, and departed, having been commended to the grace of God by the brethren.
And he passed through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.