And it happened in the eleventh year, in the third month , on the first of the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his host: To whom are you like in your greatness?
Behold, Assyria was like a cedar in Lebanon with fair branches and forest shade and exalted in height, and his top was among the thick boughs.
The waters made him great and the deep made him high with her rivers, going all around her planting, and she sent out her channels to all the trees of the field.
On account of this, his height was lifted up above all the trees of the field, and his boughs were multiplied, and his branches became long in his sending, because of the many waters.
All the birds of the heavens nested in his boughs, and under his branches all the beasts of the field gave birth, and in his shadow dwelt all great nations.
And he was fair in his greatness, in the length of his branches. for his root was to many waters.
The cedars did not overshadow him in the garden of God. The fir trees were not like his boughs, and the plane trees were not like his branches. Every tree in the garden of God was not like him in its beauty.
I have made him beautiful by his many branches, and all the trees of Eden that were in the garden of God envied him.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Because you were exalted in height, and he has set his top among the thick boughs, and his heart is lifted up in his height,
so I have given him into the mighty hand of the nations. He shall surely deal with him; I have expelled him for his evil.
And strangers have cut him off, the fearful of the nations, and have left him. His branches have fallen on the mountains and in all the valleys, and his boughs have been broken in all the ravines of the land. And all the people of the land have gone from his shadow and have left him.
All the birds of the heavens shall dwell on his ruin, and on his branches shall be all the beasts of the field,
in order that all the trees by the waters may not be exalted in their height, and do not give their top among the thick boughs, and do not stand up in their mighty exaltation, all drinking waters. For all of them are given to death to the earth's lowest parts, in the midst of the sons of men, with those going down into the Pit.
So says the Lord Jehovah: In the day he went down to Sheol, I caused a mourning. I covered the deep over him, and I held back her rivers, and many waters were confined. And I darkened Lebanon on him, and all the trees of the field wilted away because of him.
I made the nations shake at the sound of his fall when I cast him down to Sheol with those going down into the Pit. And all the trees of Eden shall be cheered in the earth's lowest parts, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink waters.
They also went down with him into Sheol, to the slain of the sword, even his arm, who dwelt in his shadow in the midst of the nations.
To whom are you like in glory and greatness among Eden's trees? Yet you shall go down with the trees of Eden to the earth's lowest parts. You shall lie amidst the uncircumcised with the slain of the sword. He is Pharaoh and all  his host, declares the Lord Jehovah.