Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ,
Grace and peace be multiplied to you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord,
according as His divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of Him who has called us to glory and virtue,
through which He has given to us exceedingly great and precious promises, so that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.
But also in this very thing, bringing in all diligence, filling out your faith with virtue, and with virtue, knowledge;
and knowledge with self-control, and with self-control, patience, and with patience. godliness,
and with godliness, brotherly kindness, and with brotherly kindness, love.
For if these things are in you and abound, you shall not be idle nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But he in whom these things are not present is blind and cannot see afar off and has forgotten that he was purged from his sins in times past.
Therefore, brothers, rather be diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you do these things, you shall never fall.
For so an entrance shall be ministered to you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Therefore I will not neglect to put you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them and are established in the present truth.
But I think it right, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by a reminder,
knowing that the putting off of my tabernacle is soon, as indeed our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me.
And I will also be diligent to cause you to always have memory of these things after my departure.
For not following cunningly devised fables, but becoming eyewitnesses of the majesty of Jesus Christ, we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord.
For He received honor and glory from God the Father, when was borne to Him a voice from the excellent glory, "This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."
And we heard this voice being borne from Heaven, being with Him in the holy mountain.
We also have a more sure word of prophecy, to which you do well to take heed, as to a light that shines in a dark place, until the day dawns and the Daystar arises in your hearts,
knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture came into being of its own private interpretation.
For prophecy was not borne at any time by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke being borne along by the Holy Spirit.