And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace offerings, if he offer of the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting. And Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to Jehovah, he shall take away the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is upon the innards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys.
And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt offering, which is upon the wood that is on the fire. It is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And if his oblation for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah be of the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
If he offers a lamb for his oblation, then he shall offer it before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it before the tent of meeting. And Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood of it upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to Jehovah. The fat of it, the entire fat tail, he shall take away close by the backbone. And he shall take away the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is upon the innards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn it upon the altar. It is the food of the offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And if his oblation be a goat, then he shall offer it before Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tent of meeting. And the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood of it upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer his oblation from it, even an offering made by fire to Jehovah. He shall take away the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is upon the innards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar. It is the food of the offering made by fire, for a sweet savor. All the fat is Jehovah's.
It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that ye shall eat neither fat nor blood.