Give ear, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter dark sayings of old,
which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.
We will not hide them from their sons, telling to the generation to come the praises of Jehovah, and his strength, and his wondrous works that he has done.
For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their sons,
that the generation to come might know, even the sons who should be born, who should arise and tell to their sons,
that they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments,
and might not be as their fathers: a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not steadfast with God.
The sons of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.
They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law.
And they forgot his doings, and his wondrous works that he had shown them.
He did marvelous things in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.
He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through. And he made the waters to stand as a heap.
In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.
He split rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink abundantly as out of the depths.
He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.
Yet they went on to still sin against him, to rebel against the Most High in the desert.
And they challenged God in their heart by asking food according to their desire.
Yea, they spoke against God. They said, Can God prepare a table in the wilderness?
Behold, he smote the rock, so that waters gushed out, and streams overflowed. Can he give bread also? Will he provide flesh for his people?
Therefore Jehovah heard, and was angry. And a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also went up against Israel,
because they did not believe in God, and did not trust in his salvation.
Yet he commanded the skies above, and opened the doors of heaven,
and he rained down manna upon them to eat, and gave them food from heaven.
Man ate the bread of the mighty. He sent them food to the full.
He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens, and by his power he guided the south wind.
He also rained flesh upon them as the dust, and winged birds as the sand of the seas.
And he let it fall in the midst of their camp round about their habitations.
So they ate, and were well filled, and he gave them their own desire.
They were not estranged from that which they desired. Their food was yet in their mouths
when the anger of God went up against them, and killed of the fattest of them, and smote down the young men of Israel.
For all this they still sinned, and did not believe in his wondrous works.
Therefore he consumed their days in vanity, and their years in terror.
When he killed them, then they inquired after him, and they returned and sought God earnestly.
And they remembered that God was their rock, and the Most High God their redeemer.
But they flattered him with their mouth, and lied to him with their tongue.
For their heart was not right with him, nor were they faithful in his covenant.
But he, being merciful, forgave iniquity, and destroyed not. Yea, many a time he turned his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.
And he remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes away, and comes not again.
How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness, and grieved him in the desert!
And they turned again and challenged God, and provoked the Holy One of Israel.
They did not remember his hand, nor the day when he redeemed them from the adversary,
how he set his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan,
and turned their rivers into blood, and their streams, so that they could not drink.
He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them, and frogs, which destroyed them.
He also gave their increase to the caterpillar, and their labor to the locust.
He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycamore trees with frost.
He also gave over their cattle to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.
He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, a band of agents of evil.
He made a path for his anger. He spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence,
and smote all the firstborn in Egypt, the chief of their strength in the tents of Ham.
But he led forth his own people like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
And he led them safely, so that they feared not, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, to this mountain, which his right hand had gotten.
He also drove out the nations before them, and allotted them for an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
Yet they challenged and rebelled against the Most High God, and kept not his testimonies,
but turned back, and dealt treacherously like their fathers. They were turned aside like a deceitful bow.
For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.
When God heard, he was angry, and greatly abhorred Israel,
so that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men,
and delivered their strength into captivity, and their glory into the adversary's hand.
He also gave his people over to the sword, and was angry with his inheritance.
Fire devoured their young men, and their virgins had no marriage-song.
Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows made no lamentation.
Then the Lord awoke as out of sleep, like a mighty man who shouts because of wine.
And he smote his adversaries backward. He put them to a perpetual reproach.
Moreover he refused the tent of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim,
but chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.
And he built his sanctuary like the heights, like the earth which he has established forever.
He also chose David his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds.
He brought him from following the ewes that have their young, to be the shepherd of Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.
So he was their shepherd according to the integrity of his heart, and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.