The first day of the week Mary Magdalene came early to the tomb, darkness still being on it, and she saw the stone taken away from the tomb.
Then she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid Him.
Therefore Peter and that other disciple went forth and came to the tomb.
So they both ran together. And the other disciple outran Peter and came first to the tomb.
And stooping down he saw the linens lying, yet he did not go in.
Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb. And he saw the linens lying there.
And the grave-cloth that was on His head was not lying with the linens, but was wrapped up in one place by itself.
Therefore, then, that other disciple also went in, the one who came first to the tomb. And he saw and believed.
For as yet they did not know the Scripture that He must rise again from the dead.
Then the disciples went away again to themselves.
But Mary stood outside of the tomb, weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down into the tomb.
And she saw two angels in white sitting there, the one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
And they said to her, Woman, why do you weep? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid Him.
And when she had said this, she turned backward and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus.
Jesus said to her, Woman, why do you weep? Whom do you seek? Supposing Him to be the gardener, she said to Him, Sir, if you have carried Him away from here, tell me where you have laid Him and I will take Him away.
Jesus said to her, Mary! She turned herself and said to Him, Rabboni! (which is to say, Master!)
Jesus said to her, Do not touch Me, for I have not yet ascended to My Father. But go to My brothers and say to them, I ascend to My Father and Your Father, and to My God and your God.
Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that He had spoken these things to her.
Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the sabbaths, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said to them, Peace to you!
And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and His side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord.
Then Jesus said to them again, Peace to you. As My Father has sent Me, even so I send you.
And when He had said this, He breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit.
Of whomever sins you remit, they are remitted to them. Of whomever sins you retain, they are retained.
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus came.
The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I shall see the print of the nails in His hands, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into His side, I will not believe.
And after eight days the disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace to you!
Then He said to Thomas, Reach your finger here and behold My hands; and reach your hand here and thrust it into My side; and do not be unbelieving, but believing.
And Thomas answered and said to Him, My Lord and my God!
Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen Me you have believed. Blessed are they who have not seen and have believed.
And truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of His disciples, which are not written in this book.
But these are written so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life in His name.