Does anyone of you having a matter against another dare to be judged before the unjust, and not before the saints?
Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy of small judgments?
Do you not know that we shall judge angels, not to speak of this life?
If, then, you truly have judgments of this life, those being least esteemed in the church, you sit these.
For I speak shame to you. So, is there not a wise one among you, not even one who will be able to give judgment on his brother in your midst?
But brother is judged with brother, and this before unbelievers!
Indeed, then, there is already a failure with you all, that you have lawsuits with yourselves. Why not instead be wronged? Why not instead be defrauded?
But you do wrong, and defraud, and these things to brothers!
Or do you not know that unjust ones will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be led astray, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor abusers, nor homosexuals,
nor thieves, nor covetous ones, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor plunderers shall inherit the kingdom of God.
And some were these things, but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God.
All things are lawful to me, but not all things profit. All things are lawful to me, but I will not be ruled by any.
Foods for the belly, and the belly for foods, but God will destroy both this and these. But the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
And God both raised up the Lord, and He will raise us up through His power.
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Then taking the members of Christ, shall I make them members of a harlot? Let it not be!
Or do you not know that he being joined to a harlot is one body? For He says, "The two shall be into one flesh." Gen. 2:24
But he being joined to the Lord is one spirit.
Flee fornication. Every sin which a man may do is outside the body, but he doing fornication sins against his own body.
Or do you not know that your body is a sanctuary of the Holy Spirit in you, which you have from God, and you are not of yourselves?
You were bought with a price; then glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are of God.