Let us be afraid therefore, lest, a promise being left behind to enter into his rest, any of you should seem to have come short.
For we also are having good news preached, just as also those men, but the word of hearing did not benefit those men, not having been mixed together with faith in those who heard.
For those who believe enter into that rest, just as he said, So I swore in my wrath, They will not enter into my rest, although the works occurred from the foundation of the world.
For he spoke somewhere about the seventh this way, And God rested during the seventh day from all his works,
and in this again, They will not enter into my rest.
Since therefore it remains for some to enter into it, and those who formerly had good news did not enter because of disobedience,
again he appoints a certain day, Today, saying in David after so long a time (as it is said), Today if ye will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken about another day after these things.
There remains therefore a sabbath for the people of God.
For a man who has entered into his rest, he has also rested from his works, as God did from his own.
Let us therefore be diligent to enter into that rest, so that not any man may fall by the same example of disobedience.
For the word of God is living, and potent, and sharper, above every two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division both of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and discernible of the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
And there is no creature concealed from his presence, but all things are naked and vulnerable to his eyes, before whom is the word to us.
Having therefore a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us take hold of the affirmation.
For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but who was tempted in all things in the same way, without sin.
Let us therefore come near with boldness to the throne of grace, so that we may take mercy, and may find grace for timely help.