Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not tiresome, but for you it is safe.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision.
For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Messiah Yeshua, and have no confidence in the flesh;
though I myself might have confidence even in the flesh. If any other man thinks that he has confidence in the flesh, I yet more:
circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; concerning the law, a Pharisee;
concerning zeal, persecuting the congregation; concerning the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless.
However, what things were gain to me, these have I counted loss for Messiah.
More than that, I count all things to be loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Messiah Yeshua, my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing but refuse, that I may gain Messiah
and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, that which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Messiah, the righteousness which is from God by faith;
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, becoming conformed to his death;
if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead.
Not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect; but I press on, if it is so that I may take hold of that for which also I was taken hold of by Messiah Yeshua.
Brothers, I do not regard myself as yet having taken hold, but one thing I do. Forgetting the things which are behind, and reaching forward to the things which are ahead,
I press on toward the goal for the prize of the high calling of God in Messiah Yeshua.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, think this way. If in anything you think otherwise, God will also reveal that to you.
Nevertheless, to what we have attained, to the same continue on.
Brothers, be imitators together of me, and note those who walk this way, even as you have us for an example.
For many walk, of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Messiah,
whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who think about earthly things.
For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, the Lord Yeshua the Messiah;
who will change our lowly bodies into the likeness of his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to subject all things to himself.