THEN he spake also to them a parable, to shew that we ought to pray always, and not faint;
saying, There was a certain judge in a particular city, having no fear of God, nor respect for man:
and there was a certain widow in that city; and she came to him, saying, Do me justice against my adversary.
And he would not for a long while: but after this he said, Though I fear not God, nor respect man;
yet because this woman is so troublesome to me, I will do her justice, lest by her perpetual coming she stun me with her importunity,
Then said the Lord, Hear what the unjust judge saith.
And shall not God execute vengeance for his own elect, who cry out to him day and night, though he bear long with them?
Yes, I tell you, that he will avenge them quickly. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, ah! shall he find faith on the earth?
Then he spake also this parable to certain persons, who had confidence in themselves, that they were righteous, and despised others:
Two men went up to the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, the other a tax-farmer.
The Pharisee, standing by himself, made this prayer: God, I thank thee, that I am not as the rest of mankind, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or as this tax-gatherer.
I keep a fast twice a week, I pay the tenth of all things I possess.
And the tax-gatherer standing at a distance, would not even so much as lift his eyes heaven-ward, but smote on his breast, saying, May God accept the atonement for me a sinner!
I say to you, Went this man down to his house justified, or the other? for every one who exalteth himself shall be humbled; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
Then they brought him infants also, that he should touch them: but the disciples, when they saw it, rebuked them.
But Jesus calling them to him, said, Permit little children to come to me, and hinder them not for of such is the kingdom of God.
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.
And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, by doing what shall I inherit eternal life?
Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good, but one, even God.
Thou knowest the commandments, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother.
Then he said, All these things have I observed from my youth.
Then Jesus hearing this, said to him, Yet one thing thou lackest: sell all whatsoever thou hast, and distribute to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
But he, on hearing these things, was exceeding sorrowful: for he was very rich.
Then Jesus, observing that he was very sorrowful, said, How difficultly shall they who have riches, enter into the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And those who heard it said, Who then can be saved?
And he said, The things impossible with men, are possible with God.
Then said Peter, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee.
And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that there is no man who hath left family, or parents, or brothers, or wife, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,
who shall not receive back manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting.
Then taking aside the twelve, he said to them, Lo, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all things written by the prophets concerning the Son of man will be fulfilled.
For he shall be delivered up to the Gentiles, and they shall insult him, and treat him with indignity, and spit upon him:
and after scourging, shall slay him: and the third day he shall rise again.
And they understood none of these things: and the saying was concealed from them, and they knew not the things which were spoken.
And it came to pass, as he drew nigh to Jerusalem, a certain blind man sat by the road-side begging:
and hearing the multitude passing by, he inquired what was the cause.
And they told him, that Jesus the Nazarean is going by.
And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me!
And they who were going before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried so much the more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
Then Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be brought to him: and when he was come near, he asked him,
saying, What wist thou that I should do for thee? Then he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee.
And instantly he received sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God.