And when He had completed all His words in the ears of the people, He went into Capernaum.
And a certain slave of a centurion, one dear to him, having illness, was about to expire.
And hearing about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to Him, asking Him that He might come to restore his slave.
And coming to Jesus, they earnestly begged Him, saying, He to whom You give this is worthy.
For he loves our nation, and he built the synagogue for us.
And Jesus went with them. But He being yet not far away from the house, the centurion sent friends to Him, saying to Him, Lord, do not trouble, for I am not worthy that You come under my roof.
For this reason I did not count myself worthy to come to You. But say in a word, and let my servant be cured.
For I also am a man having been set under authority, having soldiers under myself. And I say to this one, Go! And he goes. And to another, Come! And he comes. And to my slave, Do this! And he does it .
And hearing these things, Jesus marveled at him. And turning to the crowd following Him, He said, I say to you, I did not find such faith in Israel.
And those sent, returning to the house, found the sick slave well.
And it happened on the next day, He went into a city being called Nain. And many of His disciples went with Him; also a great crowd.
And as He drew near to the gate of the city, even behold, one having died was being borne, an only son born to his mother; and she was a widow. And a considerable crowd of the city was with her.
And seeing her, the Lord felt pity over her and said to her, Stop weeping.
And coming up, He touched the coffin; and those carrying it stood still. And He said, Young man, I say to you, Arise!
And the dead one sat up and began to speak. And He gave him to his mother.
And fear took hold of all; and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has risen up among us; and, God has visited His people.
And this word about Him went out in all Judea, and in all the neighborhood.
And His disciples reported to John about all these things.
And having called near a certain two of his disciples, John sent to Jesus, saying, Are You the One coming? Or should we expect another?
And having come to Him, the men said, John the Baptist sent us to You, saying, Are You the One coming, or should we expect another?
And in the same hour He healed many from diseases and plagues and evil spirits. And He gave to many blind ones ability to see.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Going, report to John what you saw and heard: "Blind ones see again;" "lame ones walk about;" "lepers are being cleansed; "deaf ones hear;" dead ones are raised; poor ones are given the gospel.  Isa. 35:5, 6; 61:1
And blessed is he who is not offended in Me.
And John's messengers going away, He began to speak to the crowds about John: What did you go out to the wilderness to see? A reed being shaken by the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man who had been dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those in splendid clothing and being in luxury are in king's palaces.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, even more than a prophet.
This is he about whom it has been written: "Behold, I send My messenger" before Your face, who "will prepare Your way before You." Mal. 3:1
For I say to you, Among those born of a woman, no prophet is greater than John the Baptist. But the least one in the kingdom of God is greater than he is.
And all the people and the tax collectors hearing, they justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and the lawyers set aside God's counsel as to themselves, not being baptized by him.
And the Lord said, Then to what shall I compare the men of this generation? And to what are they like?
They are like children sitting in a market and calling to one another, and saying, We piped to you, and you did not dance; we mourned to you, and you did not weep.
For John the Baptist has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, He has a demon.
The Son of man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold, a man, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.
But wisdom was justified from all her children.
And a certain one of the Pharisees asked Him that He eat with him. And going into the Pharisee's house, He reclined.
And, behold, a woman who was a sinner in the city, knowing that He reclined in the Pharisee's house, taking an alabaster vial of ointment,
and standing at His feet, weeping behind Him , she began to wash His feet with tears. And she was wiping with the hairs of her head. And she ardently kissed His feet and was anointing them with the ointment.
But seeing, the Pharisee who invited Him spoke within himself, saying, This one, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what the woman who touches him is ; for she is a sinner.
And answering, Jesus said to the man, Simon, I have a thing to say to you. And he said, Teacher, say it .
There were two debtors to a certain creditor: the one owed five hundred denarii and the other fifty.
But they not having a thing to pay, he freely forgave both. Then which of them do you say will love him most?
And answering, Simon said, I suppose the one to whom he freely forgave the most. And He said to him, You have judged rightly.
And turning to the woman, He said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I came into your house. You did not give water for My feet, but she washed My feet with tears and wiped off with the hairs of her head.
You gave Me no kiss, but she from when I entered did not stop fervently kissing My feet.
You did not anoint My head with oil, but she anointed My feet with ointment.
For this reason I say to you, her many sins are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, he loves little.
And He said to her, Your sins are forgiven.
And those reclining with Him began to say within themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins?
But He said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.