The hand of Jehovah was upon me, and he carried me out in the spirit of Jehovah, and set me in the midst of a valley, which was full of bones,
and caused me to pass by them round about; and behold, there were very many upon the surface of the valley, and lo, they were very dry.
And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord Jehovah, thou knowest!
Then he said to me, Prophesy to these dry bones, and say to them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of Jehovah!
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live;
and I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath into you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
So I prophesied, as I was commanded; and as I prophesied, a voice was heard, and behold, a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
And when I looked, behold, there were sinews upon them, and the flesh grew, and the skin covered them above; but there was no breath in them.
Then said he to me, Prophesy to breath, prophesy, O son of man, and say to breath, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live!
So I prophesied, as he commanded me; and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great host.
And he said to me, Son of man, these bones denote the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, "Our bones are dried, and our hope is lost, and we are cut off."
Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, O my people, and bring you into the land of Israel.
And ye shall know that I am Jehovah, when I open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, O my people,
and put my breath within you, and ye live, and I place you in your own land; then shall ye know that I, Jehovah, have spoken it, and done it, saith Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying:
Son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, "For Judah, and for the sons of Israel, his companions"; and take another stick, and write upon it, "For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and the whole house of Israel, his companions."
Then join them one to another into one stick, that they may become one in thy hand.
And when the sons of thy people say to thee. "Wilt thou not show us what thou meanest by these?"
say to them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and of the tribes of Israel, his companions, and will unite them and him with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in my hand.
And let the sticks whereon thou writest be in thy hand before their eyes;
and say thou to them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the sons of Israel from among the nations whither they are gone, and will gather them from every side, and bring them into their own land.
And I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king over them all; and they shall no more be two nations, and no more shall they be divided into two kingdoms.
Neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their abominations, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them from all their dwelling-places wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them; and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
And my servant David shall be king over them, and they shall have one shepherd; and they shall walk in my commandments, and observe my statutes, and do them.
And they shall dwell in the land which I gave to my servant Jacob, wherein your fathers dwelt; they shall dwell therein, and their sons and their son’s sons forever; and David, my servant, shall be their prince forever.
And I will make with them a covenant of peace; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will place them [in the land], and multiply them, and set my sanctuary in the midst of them forever.
And my dwelling-place shall be with them; yea, I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
and the nations shall know that I, Jehovah, do sanctify Israel, when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them forevermore.