Paul, an apostle (not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead),
and all the brothers with me, to the congregations of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ
who gave himself for our sins, so that he might rescue us, according to the will of our God and Father, out of the evil age that has come,
to whom is the glory into the ages of the ages. Truly.
I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him who called you in the grace of Christ to another good news,
which is not another, except there are some who confuse you, and who want to pervert the good news of the Christ.
But even if we, or an agent from heaven, should preach a good news to you contrary to what we preached to you, let him be accursed.
As we have said before, I now also say again, if any man preaches a good news to you contrary to what ye received, let him be accursed.
For do I now trust men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I were still pleasing men I would not be a bondman of Christ.
For I make known to you, brothers, the good news that was preached by me, that it is not according to man.
For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but it was through revelation of Jesus Christ.
For ye heard of my former behavior in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God to extraordinariness, and ravaged it.
And I advanced in Judaism beyond many contemporaries among my race, being a more extreme zealot of my paternal traditions.
But when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's belly, and called me through his grace,
to reveal his Son in me, so that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not straightaway confer with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to the apostles before me, but I went into Arabia and returned again to Damascus.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit with Peter, and I remained with him fifteen days.
But I did not see another of the apostles except James the Lord's brother.
Now what I write to you, behold before God, I do not lie.
Later I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
And I was unknown by face to the congregations of Judea in Christ,
but they were only hearing that the man who once persecuted us now preaches the good news, the faith that he once ravaged.
And they glorified God in me.