AND again he entered into Capernaum after some days: and it was heard, that he was in the house;
and immediately many collected round him, so that there was no room, not even at the door; and he spake the word to them.
And they come to him, carrying a paralytic, borne of four:
and not being able to come nigh him because of the crowd, they stripped off the roofing of the house where he was; and having broken a way through, they let down with ropes the couch, on which the paralytic lay.
Then Jesus beholding their faith, saith to the paralytic, Son, thy sins are forgiven thee.
Now there were certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,
Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who can forgive sins but the one God?
And instantly Jesus knowing by his spirit, that they reasoned thus among each other, said to them, Why reason ye about these things in your hearts?
Which is the easier thing, to say to a paralytic, Thy sins are forgiven thee; or to say, Arise and take up thy couch, and walk away?
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority upon earth to forgive sins, he saith to the paralytic,
I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thy house.
And he arose instantly, and taking up his couch, went out before them all; so that they were all astonished, and glorified God, saying, We never before saw any thing like this.
And he went forth again to the sea side; and all the people came unto him; and he taught them.
And passing by, he saw Levi the son of Alpheus sitting at the custom-house, and he saith to him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him
And it came to pass, as he sat at table in his house, many publicans also, and sinners, sat down with Jesus and his disciples; for they were numerous, and they followed him.
And the scribes and the Pharisees seeing him eat with publicans and sinners, said to his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners?
And when Jesus heard it, he said unto them, They who are in strong health have no need of a physician, but they who have illness: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees kept fasts; and they came and said to him, Wherefore do the disciples of John, and of the Pharisees, fast? but thy disciples keep no fast.
And Jesus said to them, Can the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days.
And no man seweth on a patch of cloth undressed upon an old garment: but if otherwise, the new piece supplied taketh away from the old, and the rent is made worse.
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; but if otherwise, the new wine will burst the bottles, and the wine will be spilt, and the bottles destroyed: but new wine must be put into new bottles.
And he was walking through the cornfields on the sabbath; and his disciples as they went on the road plucked the ears of corn.
And the Pharisees said to him, See, why are they doing on the sabbath, what is not lawful?
And he said unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he was under necessity, and was hungry, himself and they who were with him?
How he entered into the house of God to Abiathar the high-priest; and did eat the shewbread, which it was not lawful for any to eat except the priests, and he gave also to those who were with him?
And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man, not man for the sabbath.
Wherefore the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.