And the sons of Israel, according to their number, the heads of the fathers, and commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their scribes who served the king in every matter of the divisions which came in and went out month by month for all the months of the year, the one division had twenty four thousand.
Over the first division for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel. And over his division, twenty four thousand.
The head of all the commanders of the army for the first month was of the sons of Perez.
And over the division of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, and of his division, Mikloth was also the ruler; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The third commander of the army for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a head priest; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
He was that Benaiah who was mighty among the thirty, and above the thirty; and in his division was his son Ammizabad.
The fourth for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The fifth for the fifth month was chief Shamhuth the Izrahite; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The sixth for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The seventh for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The eighth for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zarhites; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The ninth for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anethothite, of the Benjamites; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The tenth for the tenth month was Maharai of Netophah, of the Zerahites; and In his division were twenty four thousand.
The eleventh for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were twenty four thousand.
The twelfth for the twelfth month was Heldai of Netophah, of Othniel; and In his division were twenty four thousand.
And over the tribes of Israel, the ruler of the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri. Shephatiah the son of Maachah was over the Simeonites.
Hashabiah the son of Kemuel was over the Levites; Zadok over the Aaronites.
Elihu, of the brothers of David, was over Judah. Omri the son of Michael was over Issachar.
Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah was over Zebulun. Jerimoth the son of Azriel was over Naphtali.
Hoshea the son of Azaziah was over the sons of Ephraim. Joel the son of Pedaiah was over the half tribe of Manasseh.
Iddo the son of Zechariah was over the half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead. Jaasiel the son of Abner was over Benjamin.
Azareel the son of Jeroham was over Dan. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel.
But David did not take the number of them from the son of twenty years and under, because Jehovah had said He would increase Israel like the stars of the heavens.
Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he did not finish. And wrath was on Israel for this. And the number did not go up in the account of the Matters of the Days of King David.
And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel. And Jehonathan the son of Uzziah was over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the strongholds.
Ezri the son of Chelub was over those who did the work of the field for working the ground.
Shimei of Ramah was over the vineyards. Zabdi the Shiphmite was over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars.
And Baa-lhanan of Geder was over the olive trees and sycamore trees in the lowlands. And Joash was over the oil cellars.
And Shitrai of Sharon was over the herds that fed in Sharon. And Shaphat the son of Adlai was over the herds in the valleys.
And Obil the Ishmaelite was over the camels And Jehdeiah the Meronothite was over the asses.
And Jaziz the Hagerite was over the flocks All these were the rulers of the possessions which king David had.
And Jonathan, David's uncle, was an adviser, a wise man and a scribe. And Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons.
And Ahithophel was the king's counselor. And Hushai the Archite was the king's companion.
And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. And the general of the king's army was Joab.