And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ye shall have a holy convocation. Ye shall do no job work. It is a day of blowing of trumpets to you.
And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor to Jehovah: one young bullock, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish,
and their meal offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for the bullock, two tenth parts for the ram,
and one tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you,
besides the burnt offering of the new moon, and the meal offering of it, and the continual burnt offering and the meal offering of it, and their drink offerings, according to their ordinance, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And on the tenth day of this seventh month ye shall have a holy convocation, and ye shall afflict your souls. Ye shall do no manner of work.
But ye shall offer a burnt offering to Jehovah for a sweet savor: one young bullock, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old (they shall be to you without blemish),
and their meal offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for the bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram,
a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs,
one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and their drink offerings.
And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have a holy convocation. Ye shall do no job work, and ye shall keep a feast to Jehovah seven days.
And ye shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah: thirteen young bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old (they shall be without blemish),
and their meal offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for every bullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth parts for each ram of the two rams,
and a tenth part for every lamb of the fourteen lambs,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
And on the second day, twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish,
and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and their drink offerings.
And on the third day, eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish,
and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
And on the fourth day, ten bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish,
their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
And on the fifth day, nine bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish,
and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
And on the sixth day, eight bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish,
and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offerings of it.
And on the seventh day, seven bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish,
and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
On the eighth day, ye shall have a solemn assembly. Ye shall do no job work.
But ye shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah: one bullock, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish,
their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the ordinance,
and one he-goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
These ye shall offer to Jehovah in your set feasts, besides your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meal offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.
And Moses told the sons of Israel according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses.