And having responded, Jesus again spoke to them in parables, saying,
The kingdom of the heavens is like a man, a king who made a wedding for his son.
And he sent forth his bondmen to call those who were invited to the wedding festivities, and they did not want to come.
Again he sent forth other bondmen, saying, Speak to those who were invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner. My oxen and my fatlings have been killed, and all things are ready. Come to the wedding festivities.
But having disregarded, they departed, one to his own farm, another to his merchandise,
and the others having seized his bondmen, abused and killed them.
But having heard that, the king was angry, and having sent forth his armies, he destroyed those murderers, and burned their city.
Then he says to his bondmen, The wedding is indeed ready, but those who were invited were not worthy.
Go ye therefore to the crossings of the ways, and as many as ye may find, call to the wedding festivities.
And those bondmen having departed into the roads, they gathered together all, as many as they found, both bad and good. And the wedding was filled with those who were dining.
But when the king came in to see those who were dining, he saw there a man who was not clothed with a wedding garment.
And he says to him, Friend, how did thou come in here not having a wedding garment? But he was speechless.
Then the king said to the helpers, After binding him hands and feet, take him away and cast him out into the outer darkness. There will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
For many are called, but few chosen.
Then the Pharisees having departed, they took counsel how they might trap him in his talk.
And they send out their disciples to him, with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that thou are true, and teach the way of God in truth, and it is not a concern to thee about a man, for thou look not to the personage of men.
Tell us therefore, what does it seem to thee? Is it permitted to give tribute to Caesar or not?
But Jesus having known their wickedness, said, Why do ye tempt me, ye hypocrites?
Exhibit to me the tribute money. And they brought to him a denarius.
And he says to them, Whose is this image and inscription?
They say to him, Caesar's. Then he says to them, Therefore, render the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God.
And when they heard it, they marveled. And having left him, they departed.
On that day Sadducees came to him, those who claim to be no resurrection. And they questioned him, saying,
Teacher, Moses said, If some man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed to his brother.
Now there were with us seven brothers. And the first having married perished. And having no seed left his wife to his brother.
Likewise also the second, and the third, until the seventh.
And last of all, the woman also died.
In the resurrection therefore, which of the seven will she be wife? For they all had her.
But having answered, Jesus said to them, Ye are led astray, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God.
For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as agents of God in heaven.
But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not God of the dead, but of the living.
And when the multitudes heard it, they were astonished at his doctrine.
But the Pharisees, having heard that he silenced the Sadducees, they came together in the same place.
And one of them, a lawyer, questioned, trying him, and saying,
Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?
And Jesus said to him, Thou shall love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole mind.
This is the first and great commandment.
And the second is like it, Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself.
On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.
Now the Pharisees having been gathered together, Jesus interrogated them, saying,
What does it seem to you about the Christ? Whose son is he? They say to him, Of David.
He says to them, How then does David in Spirit call him Lord, saying,
The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I place thine enemies a footstool of thy feet?
If David therefore calls him Lord, how is he his son?
And no man was able to answer him a word, nor did any man from that day dare to question him any more.