Observe the month of Abib, when thou shalt keep a passover unto Yahweh thy God,—for in the month of Abib, did Yahweh thy God bring thee forth out of Egypt by night:
therefore shalt thou sacrifice a passover unto Yahweh thy God of flock or herd,—in the place which Yahweh shall choose to make a habitation for his name there.
Thou shalt not eat therewith any thing leavened, seven days, shalt thou eat therewith unleavened cakes the bread of humiliation,—for in haste, camest thou forth out of the land of Egypt, that thou mayest remember the day when thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt, all the days of thy life.
And there shall not be seen with thee leaven in any of thy bounds seven days,—neither shall there remain all night of the flesh which thou shalt sacrifice in the evening, on the first day, unto the morning.
Thou mayest not sacrifice the passover,—within any of thine own gates which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee;
but in the place which Yahweh thy God shall choose to make a habitation for his name, there, shalt thou sacrifice the passover in the evening,—at the going in of the sun, at the very time thou camest forth out of Egypt.
Therefore shalt thou cook and eat it in the place which Yahweh thy God, shall choose,—and shalt turn away in the morning, and go thy way unto thy tents.
Six days, shalt thou eat unleavened cakes,—and, on the seventh day, shall be a closing feast, unto Yahweh thy God, thou shalt do no work.
Seven weeks, shalt thou count unto thee,—from the beginning of thrusting in the sickle into the standing corn, shalt thou begin to count, seven weeks.
So shalt thou keep the festival of weeks unto Yahweh thy God, in the measure of the freewill offering of thy hand which thou shalt give,—as Yahweh thy God shall bless thee.
So shalt thou rejoice before Yahweh thy God—thou, and thy son and thy daughter and thy servant and thy handmaid, and the Levite who is within thy gates, and the sojourner, and the fatherless and the widow who are in thy midst,—in the place which Yahweh thy God shall choose, to make a habitation for his name there.
So shalt thou remember that a servant, thou wast in Egypt,—and shalt observe and do these statutes.
The festival of booths, shalt thou keep for thyself seven days,—when thou hast gathered in out of thy threshing-floor and out of thy wine-vat.
And thou shalt rejoice in thy festival,—thou, and thy son and thy daughter, and thy servant and thy handmaid, and the Levite and the sojourner, and the fatherless and the widow, who are within thy gates.
Seven days, shalt thou keep festival unto Yahweh thy God, in the place which Yahweh shall choose,—for Yahweh thy God, will bless thee, in all thine increase and in all the work of thy hands,—therefore shalt thou do nothing but, rejoice.
Three times in the year, shall each one of thy males see the face of Yahweh thy God, in the place which he shall choose, at the festival of unleavened cakes and at the festival of weeks and at the festival of booths,—and none shall see the face of Yahweh empty-handed:
every man according as his hand can give,—according to the blessing of Yahweh thy God, which he hath bestowed upon thee.
Judges and officers, shalt thou appoint thee in all thy gates, which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee, by thy tribes,—and they shall judge the people, with righteous judgment,
Thou shalt not wrest judgment, thou shalt not take note of faces,—nor shalt thou accept a bribe, for the bribe, blindeth the eyes of wise men, and perverteth the words of righteous men.
What is right, what is right, shalt thou pursue,—that thou mayest live and possess the land, which, Yahweh thy God, is giving unto thee.
Thou shalt not plant thee, as a sacred stem, any tree,—near unto the altar of Yahweh thy God which thou shalt make for thyself;
neither shalt thou set thee up a pillar,—which Yahweh thy God, doth hate.