And Isaac called Jacob. And he blessed him and commanded him, and said to him, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan.
Go up, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel your mother's father. And take a wife for yourself from there, from the daughters of Laban the brother of your mother.
And may God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful, and add to you; and may you become an assembly of nations.
And may He give to you the blessing of Abraham, to you and to your seed with you, for you to possess the land of your travels, which God gave to Abraham.
And Isaac sent away Jacob. And he went to Padanaram, to Laban, the son, of Bethuel the Aramean, brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau.
And Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and had sent him away to Padan-aram to take a wife for himself from there. In his blessing he had commanded him, saying, You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan;
and that Jacob listened to his father and his mother, and went to Padan-aram.
And when Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan were evil in the eyes of his father Isaac,
then Esau went to Ishmael and took Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, Nebajoth's sister. To his wives he added her for his wife.
And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba and went toward Haran.
And he came on a place and stayed the night there, for the sun had gone. And he took stones of the place and placed them at his head; and he lay down in that place.
And he dreamed. And, behold, a ladder was placed on the earth, its top reaching to the heavens. And, behold, the angels of God were going up and going down on it!
And, behold, Jehovah stood above it and said, I am Jehovah the God of your father Abraham, and the God of Isaac; the land on which you are lying, I will give it to you and to your seed.
And your seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and you shall spread to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south; and all the families of the earth shall be blessed in you and in your seed.
And, behold, I will be with you and will guard you in every place in which you may go, and will bring you back to this land; for I will not forsake you until I have surely done that which I have spoken to you.
And Jacob awakened from his sleep, and said, Surely Jehovah is in this place, and I did not know.
And he was afraid, and said, How fearful is this place! This is nothing except the house of God, and this is the door to Heaven.
And Jacob started up early in the morning and took the stone which he had placed at his head, and he placed it as a pillar; and he poured oil on the top of it.
And he called the name of that place, The House of God. And yet the name of the city was at first Luz.
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God is with me and keeps me in this way which I am going, and gives to me bread to eat and clothing to wear,
and I return in peace to the house of my father, then Jehovah shall be my God,
and this stone which I have placed as a memorial pillar shall become the house of God; and all which You shall give to me, I will tithe the tenth to You.