Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of YHWH; because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
By this you know the Spirit of YHWH: Every spirit that confesses that Yahushua the Messiah has come in the flesh is of YHWH,
and every spirit that does not confess that Yahushua the Messiah has come in the flesh is not of YHWH. And this is the spirit of the antimessiah, which you have heard was coming, and is now already in the world.
You are of YHWH, little children, and have overcome them, because He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world.
They are of the world. Therefore they speak as of the world, and the world hears them.
We are of YHWH. He who knows YHWH hears us; he who is not of YHWH does not hear us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error.
Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of YHWH; and everyone who loves is born of YHWH and knows YHWH.
He who does not love does not know YHWH, for YHWH is love.
In this the love of YHWH was manifested toward us, that YHWH has sent His only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him.
In this is love, not that we loved YHWH, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
Beloved, if YHWH so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
No one has seen YHWH at any time. If we love one another, YHWH abides in us, and His love has been perfected in us.
By this we know that we abide in Him, and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit.
And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son as Savior of the world.
Whoever confesses that Yahushua is the Son of YHWH, YHWH abides in him, and he in YHWH.
And we have known and believed the love that YHWH has for us. YHWH is love, and he who abides in love abides in YHWH, and YHWH in him.
Love has been perfected among us in this: that we may have boldness in the day of judgment; because as He is, so are we in this world.
There is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves torment. But he who fears has not been made perfect in love.
We love Him because He first loved us.
If someone says, "I love YHWH," and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love YHWH whom he has not seen?
And this commandment we have from Him: that he who loves YHWH must love his brother also.