Let us praise the men of glory, and our ancestors in their generation.
The Lord has wrought great glory, by his own magnificence, from ancient times.
There are those who rule with their authority, men of great virtue, who are gifted with prudence. There are those who announce among the prophets, with the dignity of prophets.
And there are those who rule over the present generation, by the virtue of prudence, with very holy words for the people.
There are those who, by their skill, compose musical themes, so as to set the verses of Scripture to music.
There are men rich in virtue, who make a study of beauty, who live in peacefulness in their houses.
All these obtained glory in their generations, and they had praise in their days.
They left behind a name for those who were born of them, so that their praises might be described.
But for some of them, there is no memorial. They have passed away as if they had never existed; and they have become as if they had never been born, and their sons along with them.
But these were men of mercy, whose pious deeds have not failed.
Good things continue with their offspring.
Their descendants are a holy inheritance, and their offspring stand firm in the covenants.
And because of them, their sons remain even unto eternity. Their offspring and their glory will not be forsaken.
Their bodies were buried in peace, and their name lives on, from generation to generation.
Let the people declare their wisdom, and let the Church announce their praise.
Enoch pleased God, and he was transferred to Paradise, so that he might offer repentance to the nations.
Noah was found to be perfect and just, and so, in the time of wrath, he was made a reconciliation.
As a result, there was a remnant left for the earth, when the great flood was made.
The covenants of the world were placed with him, so that all flesh would not be wiped away by the great flood.
Abraham was the great father of a multitude of nations, and no one was found to be like him in glory. He observed the law of the Most High, and he formed a covenant with him.
In his flesh, he caused the covenant to stand, and when tested, he was found to be faithful.
Therefore, by an oath, he gave glory to him among his people, so as to increase him like the dust of the earth,
and to exalt his offspring like the stars, and to give an inheritance to them from sea to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth.
And he acted in like manner toward Isaac, because of his father Abraham.
The Lord gave the blessing of all the nations to him, and he confirmed his covenant upon the head of Jacob.
He acknowledged him in his blessings, and he gave an inheritance to him, and he distributed to him the portion of the twelve tribes.
And he preserved for him men of mercy, who were found to have grace before the eyes of all flesh.