And David consulted with the rulers of thousands and hundreds, even with every chief ruler.
And David said to all the convocation of Israel, If, unto you, it seemeth to be good, and from Yahweh our God, we will urgently send unto our brethren who remain in all the lands of Israel, and, with them, the priests and the Levites in their pasture-land cities,—that they may gather together unto us;
and let us bring round the ark of our God, unto us,—For they sought it not, in the days of Saul.
Than said all the convocation, that it should be done thus,—for right was the thing, in the eyes of all the people.
So David convoked all Israel, from Shihor of Egypt, even unto the entering in of Hamath,—to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim.
And David went up and all Israel to Baalah, unto Kiriath-jearim, which pertaineth to Judah,—to bring up from thence, the ark of God—Yahweh who inhabiteth the cherubim, on which is called the Name.
And they carried the ark of God, upon a new waggon, out of the house of Aminadab,—and, Uzza and Ahio, were driving the waggon.
And, David and all Israel, were dancing for joy before God, with all boldness, and with songs and with lyres, and with harps and with timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.
And, when they came as far as the threshing-floor of Chidon, Uzza thrust forth his hand, to seize the ark, for the oxen were restive.
Then was kindled the anger of Yahweh against Uzza, and he smote him, because he thrust forth his hand unto the ark,—and he died there, before God.
And it was a sadness unto David, that Yahweh had broken in with a breach against Uzza,—and he called that place Perez-uzza, [as it is called] unto this day.
And David was afraid of God, on that day, saying,—How can I bring unto me, the ark of God?
So David removed not the ark unto him, into the city of David,—but took it aside into the house of Obed-edom, the Gittite.
And the ark of God remained with the household of Obed-edom, in his house, three months,—and Yahweh blessed the household of Obed-edom, and all that he had.