These, are the sons of Israel,—Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun;
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher,
the sons of Judah, Er, and Onan, and Shelah, the three born to him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess,—but Er the firstborn of Judah became wicked in the eyes of Yahweh, and he slew him.
And, Tamar his daughter-in-law, bare him, Perez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah, were five.
The sons of Perez, Hezron and Hamul.
And, the sons of Zerah, Zimri and Ethan, and Heman and Calcol and Dara, all of them, five.
And, the sons of Carmi, Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in a thing devoted.
And, the sons of Ethan, Azariah.
And, the sons of Hezron, who were born to him, Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Calubai.
And, Ram, begat Amminadab,—and, Amminadab, begat Nahshon, leader of the sons of Judah.
And, Nahshon, begat Salma, and, Salma, begat Boaz;
and, Boaz, begat Obed, and, Obed, begat Jesse;
and, Jesse, begat—his firstborn, Eliab,—and Abinadab, the second, and Shimea, the third;
Nethanel, the fourth, Raddai, the fifth;
Ozem, the sixth, David, the seventh.
And, their sisters, were Zeruiah and Abigail,—and, the sons of Zeruiah, Abishai and Joab and Asahel, three,
And, Abigail, bare Amasa,—and, the father of Amasa, was Jether the Ishmaelite.
And, Caleb son of Hezron, begat children of Azubah his wife, and of Jerioth,—and, these, were her sons, Jesher and Shobab and Ardon.
And Azubah died,—and Caleb took unto him Ephrath, and she bare to him Hur.
And, Hur, begat Uri, and, Uri, begat Bezalel.
And, afterward, Hezron went in unto the daughter of Machir, father of Gilead, and he took her when he was sixty years old,—and she bare him Segub.
And, Segub, begat Jair,—who came to have twenty-three cities, in the land of Gilead;
but Geshur and Aram took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath and the villages thereof, sixty cities. All these, were the sons of Machir, father of Gilead.
And, after the death of Hezron, Caleb entered Ephrathah,—and, the wife of Hezron, was Abiah, who bare him Ashur, father of Tekoa.
And the sons of Jerahmeel firstborn of Hezron were, the firstborn, Ram,—and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem [of] Ahijah.
And Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name, was Atarah,—the same, was the mother of Onam.
And the sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerameel, were,—Maaz and Jamin, and Eker.
And the sons of Onam were, Shammai and Jada,—and, the sons of Shammai, Nadab and Abishur.
And, the name of the wife of Abishur, was Abihail,—and she bare him Ahban, and Molid.
And, the sons of Nadab, Seled and Appaim,—but Seled died without sons.
And, the sons of Appaim, Ishi, and, the sons of Ishi, Sheshan, and, the sons of Sheshan, Ahlai.
And, the sons of Jada, brother of Shammai, Jether, and Jonathan,—but Jether died without sons.
And the sons of Jonathan, Peleth and Zaza. These, were the sons of Jerahmeel.
Now Sheshan had, no sons, but, daughters,—and, Sheshan, had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha;
so Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant, to wife,—and she bare him Attai.
And, Attai, begat Nathan, and, Nathan, begat Zabad;
and, Zabad, begat Ephlal, and, Ephlal, begat Obed;
and, Obed, begat Jehu, and, Jehu, begat Azariah;
and, Azariah, begat Helez, and, Helez, begat Eleasah;
and, Eleasah, begat Sismai, and, Sismai, begat Shallum;
and, Shallum, begat Jekamiah, and, Jekamiah, begat Elishama.
Now, the sons of Caleb, brother of Jerahmeel, were, Mesha his firstborn, the same, was the father of Ziph,—and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron.
And, the sons of Hebron, Korah and Tappuah, and Rekem and Shema.
And, Shema, begat Raham, the father of Jorkeam,—and, Rekem, begat Shammai.
And, the son of Shammai, was Maon,—and, Maon, was the father of Beth-zur.
And, Ephah, the concubine of Caleb, bare Haran and Moza, and Gazez,—and, Haran, begat Gazez.
And, the sons of Jahdai, Regem and Jotham and Geshan and Pelet, and Ephah and Shaaph.
A concubine of Caleb, Maacah, bare Sheber, and Tirhanah;
she also bare Shaaph, father of Madmannah, Sheva, father of Machbena, and father of Gibea,—and, the daughter of Caleb, was Achsah.
These, were the sons of Caleb, sons of Hur, firstborn of Ephrathah,—Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim;
Salma, the father of Bethlehem, Hareph, the father of Beth-gader.
And Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons,—Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.
And, the families of Kiriath-jearim, were the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites,—from these, came the Zorathites, and the Eshtaolites.
The sons of Salma, were Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, Atrothbeth-joab,—and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites;
and the families of scribes who dwelt at Jabez, the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites. The same, are the Kenites who came in from Hammath, father of the house of Rechab.