What then shall we say that our father Abraham has found, according to flesh?
For if Abraham was justified by works, he has a boast; but not before God.
For what does the Scripture say? "Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness."
But to him working, the reward is not reckoned according to grace, but according to debt.
But to him not working, but believing on Him justifying the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.
Even as David also says of the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness without works,
saying, "Blessed are those whose lawlessnesses are forgiven, and whose sins are covered;
blessed is the man to whom the Lord will in no way impute sin."
Is this blessedness then on the circumcision only, or on the uncircumcision also? For we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness.
How then was it reckoned? Being in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
And he received a sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith while still uncircumcised; so that he might be the father of all those believing through uncircumcision, for righteousness to be imputed to them also;
and a father of circumcision to those not of the circumcision only, but also to those walking by the steps of the faith of our father Abraham during uncircumcision.
For the promise that he should be the heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the Law, but through the righteousness of faith.
For if they of the Law are heirs, faith is made void and the promise is made of no effect;
because the Law works out wrath, for where no law is, there is no transgression.
Therefore it is of faith so that it might be according to grace; for the promise to be made sure to all the seed, not only to that which is of the Law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all
(as it has been written, "I have made you a father of many nations") --before God, whom he believed, who makes the dead live, and calls the things which do not exist as though they do exist.
For he who beyond hope believed on hope for him to become the father of many nations (according to that which was spoken, "So your seed shall be").
And not being weak in faith, he did not consider his own body already dead (being about a hundred years old) or the deadening of Sarah's womb.
He did not stagger at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God,
and being fully persuaded that what God had promised, He was also able to perform.
And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness.
Now it was not written for him alone that it was imputed to him,
but for us also to whom it is to be imputed, to the ones believing on Him who has raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead;
who was delivered because of our offenses and was raised for our justification.