Now these, are they who came unto David, to Ziklag, he yet being shut up, because of Saul son of Kish,—and, they, were among the heroes, helpers in the war;
armed with the bow, using right hand or left with stones, and with arrows in the bow,—of the brethren of Saul, out of Benjamin:
the chief, Ahiezer, and Joash, sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite, and Jeziel and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth,—and Beracah, and Jehu the Anathothite;
and Ishmaiah, the Gibeonite, a hero among the thirty, and over the thirty,—and Jeremiah and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad, the Gederathite;
Eluzai and Jerimoth and Bealiah and Shemariah, and Shephatiah, the Haruphite;
Elkanah and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer and Jashobeam, the Korahites;
and Joelah and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham, of Gedor.
And, of the Gadites, there separated themselves unto David, to the stronghold towards the desert, heroes of valour, men of war, for battle, men that could handle shield and spear,—and, faces of lions, were their faces, and, like gazelles upon the mountains, were they, for swiftness:
Ezer, the chief, Obadiah, the second,—Eliab, the third;
Mashmannah, the fourth, Jeremiah, the fifth;
Attai, the sixth, Eliel the seventh;
Johanan, the eighth, Elzabad, the ninth;
Jeremiah, the tenth, Machbannai, the eleventh.
These, were of the sons of Gad, chiefs of the host,—one to a hundred, the least, and, the greatest, to a thousand.
These, are they who passed over the Jordan, in the first month, when, it, was full, over all its banks,—and they put to flight all them of the vales, to the east and to the west.
And there came, of the sons of Benjamin, and Judah, as far as the stronghold, unto David.
And David went forth to meet them, and responded, and said to them, If, peaceably, ye are come unto me, to help me, I shall have towards you, a heart for unity,—but, if to betray me to mine adversaries, there being no violence in my hands, may the God of our fathers see and rebuke!
Then, the spirit, clothed Amasai, chief of the thirty, Thine, O David, Yea, with, thee, O son of Jesse! Prosperity, prosperity to thee, And prosperity to thy helpers, For thy God, hath helped thee: So David accepted them, and set them among the chiefs of the band.
And, of Manasseh, there fell away unto David, when he came with the Philistines against Saul to battle, but they helped them not,—for the lords of the Philistines advisedly sent him away, saying, At the price of our heads, he might fall away to his master, Saul.
When he went into Ziklag, there fell away unto him, of Manasseh, Adnah and Jozabad, and Jediael and Michael and Jozabad, and Elihu and Zillethai,—chiefs of the thousands that pertained to Manasseh;
and, they, helped with David, against the [marauding] band, for, heroes of valour, were they all,—and they became captains in the host;
for, from day to day, there came unto David, to help him,—until it was a great camp, like a camp of God.
And, these, are the numbers of the chiefs armed for war, they came unto David, to Hebron,—to turn round the kingdom of Saul unto him, according to the bidding of Yahweh:
Sons of Judah, bearers of shield and spear, six thousand and eight hundred, armed for war.
Of sons of Simeon, heroes of valour for the war, seven thousand, and one hundred.
Of the sons of Levi, four thousand, and six hundred.
And Jehoiada, was chief ruler for Aaron,—and, with him, three thousand and seven hundred;
and Zadok, a young man, a hero of valour,—and the house of his father, captains twenty and two.
And, of the sons of Benjamin, brethren of Saul, three thousand,—and, hitherto, the greater part of them, had been keeping the charge of the house of Saul.
And, of the sons of Ephraim, twenty thousand, and eight hundred,—heroes of valour, men of renown, to their ancestral house.
And, of the half tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand, who were distinguished by name, coming in to make David king.
And, of the sons of Issachar, such as were of good understanding of the times, to know what Israel, should do, their chiefs, were two hundred, and, all their brethren, were at their bidding.
Of Zebulun—such as were ready to go forth in host, expert for battle with all weapons of war, fifty thousand,—and for setting in array, not of two minds!
And, of Naphtali, a thousand captains,—and, with them, with shield and spear, thirty-seven thousand.
And, of the Danite, expert for war, twenty-eight thousand, and six hundred.
And, of Asher, such as were ready to go forth in host to set in array for battle, forty thousand.
And, from over the Jordan, of the Reubenites and Gadites and half tribe of Manasseh, with all manner of weapons of war for battle, a hundred and twenty thousand.
All these, being men of war, expert in setting in battle-array, with a perfect heart, came to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel,—moreover also, all the rest of Israel, were of one heart to make David king.
So they were there, with David, three days, eating and drinking,—for their brethren had made preparation for them.
Moreover also, they who were near of kin unto them, as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, were bringing bread, on asses and on camels and on mules and on oxen, meal-food, cakes of figs and cakes of raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep—in abundance,—for there was joy Israel.