Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, and Timothy my brother, to the church of God which is in Corinth, with all the saints that are in all Achaia:
grace be to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort,
who con soles us in all our afflictions, so that we are able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
For as the sufferings for the Christ abound in us, so also through Christ abounds our consolation.
And if we are afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which salvation is effected by your patient endurance of the same sufferings that we also suffer; (and our hope in you is steadfast;) or if we are consoled, it is for your comfort and salvation;
because we know, that as you are partakers of the sufferings, so also you shall be partakers of the comfort.
For we do not wish you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning our affliction which came upon us in Asia, that we were exceedingly oppressed, beyond our strength, so that we despaired even of life.
But we have in ourselves the sentence of death, that we may not trust in ourselves, but in God, who raises the dead;
who delivered us from so great a death, and does still deliver us: in whom we have confidence, that he will continue to deliver us,
if you also unite in prayer for our aid, that the favor bestowed on us, through the intercession of many persons, may cause thanks to be given by many for us.
For the ground of our rejoicing is this: the testimony of our conscience that we have lived in the world more―abundantly, indeed, for you―in sincerity and godly purity, not in carnal wisdom, but in the grace of God.
For we write to you nothing else than what you recognize, or even acknowledge; and which I hope you will acknowledge to the end;
as some of you also acknowledge us, that we are the cause of your rejoicing, even as you, also, are of ours, in the day of the Lord Jesus.
And in this confidence I intended to go to you before, that you might have a second benefit;
and by you, to pass through into Macedonia, and to come again to you from Macedonia, and be conducted by you into Judea.
In forming this purpose, did I, therefore, behave with levity? or do I purpose what I purpose, according to the flesh, that there may be with me, yes yes, and no, no?
But God is true; for our preaching to you was not yes and no:
for the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, by me and Sylvanus and Timothy, was not yes and no, but in him was yes.
For whatever promises of God there are, are in him yes, and in him amen, to the glory of God by us.
For he who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us, is God,
who has also set his seal upon us, and given us the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
But I call on God as a witness against my soul, that wishing to spare you, I did not go to Corinth;
not that we are lords over your faith, but fellow-workers for your joy: for by faith you stand.