The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; for the LORD has spoken, I have nursed and brought up sons, and they have rebelled against Me.
The ox knows his owner, and the ass his master's crib; but Israel does not know; My people do not understand.
Woe, sinful nation, a people heavy with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, sons who make others rotten! They have forsaken the LORD; they have provoked the Holy One of Israel to anger; they have gone away backward.
Why should you be stricken any more? You will revolt more and more; the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness in it; only a wound and a stripe and a fresh blow; they have not been closed, nor bound up, nor soothed with oil.
Your land is wasted, your cities burned with fire. Strangers devour your land right before your eyes, and it is wasted, as overthrown by strangers.
And the daughter of Zion is left a booth in a vineyard, like a hut in a garden of cucumbers, like a besieged city.
Except the LORD of hosts had left us a very small remnant, we would be as Sodom; we would be like Gomorrah.
Hear the word of the LORD, rulers of Sodom; give ear to the law of our God, people of Gomorrah.
To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to Me? says the LORD; I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of he-goats.
When you come to appear before Me, who has required this at your hand, to trample My courts?
Bring no more vain sacrifice; incense is an abomination to Me; the new moon and sabbath, the going to meeting; I cannot endure evil and the assembly!
Your new moons and your appointed feasts My soul hates; they are a trouble to Me; I am weary to bear them.
And when you spread out your hands, I will hide My eyes from you; yea, when you make many prayers, I will not hear; your hands are full of blood.
Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean; put away the evil of your doings from before My eyes; cease to do evil;
learn to do good; seek judgment, reprove the oppressor. Judge the orphan, plead for the widow.
Come now, and let us reason together, says the LORD; though your sins are as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall be like wool.
If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;
but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured with the sword; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.
How has the faithful city become a harlot? It was full of judgment; righteousness lodged in it, but now murderers.
Your silver has become dross, your wine mixed with water;
your rulers are rebellious, and companions of thieves; everyone loves a bribe, and is pursuing rewards; they do not judge the orphan, nor does the cause of the widow come to them.
And the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts, the mighty One of Israel, says, Alas! I will ease Myself of My foes, and avenge Myself of My enemies.
And I will turn back My hand on you, and purge away your dross as with lye, and take away all your alloy.
And I will restore your judges as at first, and your counselors as at the beginning; afterwards you shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city.
Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her returning ones with righteousness.
And the downfall of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together; and those who forsake the LORD shall be consumed.
For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired, and you shall be ashamed for the gardens which you have chosen.
For you shall be like an oak whose leaf fades, and like a garden that has no water.
And the strong shall be like tow, and the maker of it as a spark, and they shall both burn together, and none shall put them out.