And, looking up, he saw the, rich, who were casting their gifts into the treasury,—
and he saw a certain poor widow, casting in thither two mites;
and he said—Of a truth, I say unto you—This destitute widow, more than they all, hath cast in;
For, all these, out of their superfluity, have cast in among the gifts, but, she, out of her deficiency, all the living that she had, hath cast in.
And, certain saying, of the temple—With beautiful stones and offerings, hath it been adorned! he said—
As to these things, which ye are looking upon, There will come days, in which there will not be left here, stone upon stone, which will not be taken down.
And they questioned him, saying—Teacher! when, therefore, will these things be? And, what the sign, when these things shall be about to come to pass?
And, he, said—Be taking heed ye be not deceived; for, many, will come upon my name, saying—I, am he,—and—The season, hath drawn near! Do not go after them.
But, whensoever ye shall hear of wars and revolutions, be not terrified,—for these things, must needs, come to pass first, but, not immediately, is the end.
Then, said he unto them—There will rise up, nation against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
As well great earthquakes, as also, in places, pestilences and famines, will there be, as well objects of terror, as also, from heaven, great signs, will there be.
And before, all these things, they will thrust upon you their hands, and persecute you, delivering you up into the synagogues and prisons,—when ye have been led away before kings and governors, for the sake of my name;
But it shall turn out to you for a witness.
Settle, then, in your hearts, not to be studying beforehand, how to make defense;
For, I, will give you a mouth and wisdom, which one-and-all who are setting themselves against, you shall be unable to withstand or gainsay.
But ye will be delivered up, even by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolk, and friends, and they will put to death some from among you;
And ye will be hated by all, because of my name:
And, a hair of your head, in nowise shall perish,—
By your endurance, shall ye gain your lives for a possession.
But whensoever ye shall see Jerusalem, encompassed by armies, then, know, that her desolation hath drawn near.
Then they who are in Judaea, let them flee into the mountains, and they who are in her midst, let them go forth,—and they who are in the fields, let them not enter into her;
For, days of avenging, are, these, for all the things written to be fulfilled.
Alas! for the women with child, and for them who are giving suck, in those days; for there will be great distress upon the land, and anger against this people.
And they will fall by the edge of the sword, and be carried away captive into all the nations, and, Jerusalem, shall be trodden down by the nations, until the seasons of the nations shall be fulfilled [and shall be].
And there will he signs in sun, and moon, and stars, and, on the earth, anguish of nations in embarrassment—sea and surge resounding,—
Men fainting, from fear and expectation of the things overtaking the inhabited earth. For, the powers of the heavens, will be shaken.
And, then, will they see the Son of Man—coming in a cloud, with great power and glory.
And, when these things are beginning to come to pass, unbend and lift up your heads, because that, your redemption, is drawing near.
And he spake a parable unto them: See the fig-tree, and all the trees,—
Whensoever they have already budded, seeing it, of yourselves, ye observe that, already near, is, the summer:
Thus, ye also, whensoever ye shall see, these, things coming to pass, observe ye, that, near, is the kingdom of God!
Verily, I say unto you—In nowise shall this generation pass away, until, all things, shall happen:
Heaven and earth, will pass away, but, my word, in nowise will pass away.
But be taking heed unto yourselves, lest once your hearts be made heavy—with debauch and drunkenness and anxieties about livelihood, and that day come upon you suddenly,
as a snare,—For it will come in by surprise, upon all them that are dwelling on the face of all the earth.
But be watching in every season, making supplication, that ye may gain full vigour, to escape all these things that are about to be coming to pass, and to stand before the Son of Man.
And he was, by day, in the temple, teaching; but, by night, going forth, he was lodging in the mount which is called the Mount of Olives.
And, all the people, were coming at day-break unto him, in the temple, to be hearkening unto him.