In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a matter, was revealed unto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and faithful was the matter, but [concerned] a great warfare, and he marked the word, and had understanding in the revelation.
In those days, I, Daniel, was mourning three sevens of days:
food to delight in, did I not eat, neither flesh nor wine, came into my mouth, nor did I so much as, anoint, myself,—until were fulfilled three sevens of days.
And, on the twenty-fourth day of the first month,—when, I, was by the side of the great river, the same, is Tigris,
then lifted I up mine eyes, and looked, and lo! a man, clothed in linen,—whose loins, were girded with the bright gold of Uphaz;
whose body, was like Tarshish-stone, and, his face, like the appearance of lightning, and, his eyes, were like torches of fire, and, his arms and his feet, like the look of bronze burnished,—and, the sound of his words, was like the sound of a multitude.
And, I, Daniel, alone, beheld the revelation, and, the men who were with me, beheld not the revelation,—in truth, a great terror, had fallen upon them, and they had fled while hiding themselves.
I, therefore, was left alone, and beheld this great revelation, and there remained in me no strength,—but, my freshness, was turned upon me into disfigurement, and I retained no strength.
So then I heard the sound of his words,—and, when I heard the sound of his words, then, I myself, came to be in a deep sleep upon my face, with, my face, to the earth.
And lo! a hand, touched me; and roused me up on my knees and the palms of my hands.
Then said he unto me, O Daniel! man greatly delighted in! have understanding in the words which, I, am about to speak unto thee, and stand up where thou art, for, now, have I been sent unto thee. And, when he had spoken with me this word, I stood up trembling.
Then said he unto me, Do not fear, Daniel, for, from the first day that thou didst set thy heart to understand and to humble thyself before thy God, thy words were heard; and, I, am come, by reason of thy words.
But, the ruler of the kingdom of Persia, withstood me twenty-one days, but lo! Michael, one of the chief rulers, came in to help me,—and, I, left him there, beside the kings of Persia.
So then I am come to let thee understand that which shall befall thy people in the afterpart of the days,—for yet is the vision for [those] days.
And, when he had spoken with me such words as these,—I set my face towards the earth, and was dumb.
Then lo! like the similitude of the sons of men, one was touching my lips,—so I opened my mouth, and spake, and said unto him who was standing before me, O my lord! By the revelation, my pains have seized me, and I retain no strength.
How then can the servant of this my lord speak with this my lord,—seeing that, as for me—henceforth, there remaineth in me no strength, and no, spirit, is left in me?
Then again there touched me one like in appearance to a son of earth, and he strengthened me.
And he said, Do not fear, O man greatly delighted in! peace to thee, be strong, yea be strong! And, as he spake with me, I gained strength, and said, Let my lord speak, for thou hast strengthened me.
And he said, Knowest thou wherefore I am come unto thee? But, now, must I return to fight with the ruler of Persia; I, therefore am going forth, and lo! the ruler of Greece, is coming.
Howbeit I will tell thee that which is inscribed in the writing of truth,—but there is no one who holdeth strongly with me concerning these things, save Michael your ruler.