And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When any man has an issue out of his flesh, he is unclean because of his issue.
And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue, whether his flesh runs with his issue, or his flesh has stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness.
Every bed on which he who has the issue lies shall be unclean, and everything on which he sits shall be unclean.
And whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And he who sits on anything on which he who has the issue sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And he who touches the flesh of him who has the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And if he who has the issue spits upon him who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And whatever saddle he who has the issue rides upon shall be unclean.
And whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening. And he who bears those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And whomever he who has the issue touches, without having rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And the earthen vessel, which he who has the issue touches, shall be broken, and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
And when he who has an issue is cleansed of his issue, then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.
And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and come before Jehovah to the door of the tent of meeting, and give them to the priest.
And the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and the priest shall make atonement for him before Jehovah for his issue.
And if any man's seed of copulation go out from him, then he shall bathe all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And every garment, and every skin, on which is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the evening.
The woman also with whom a man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And if a woman has an issue, and her issue in her flesh is blood, she shall be seven days in her impurity, and whoever touches her shall be unclean until the evening.
And everything that she lies upon in her impurity shall be unclean. Also everything that she sits upon shall be unclean.
And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And whoever touches anything that she sits upon shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And if it be on the bed, or on anything on which she sits, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the evening.
And if any man lies with her, and her impurity be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days, and every bed on which he lies shall be unclean.
And if a woman has an issue of her blood many days not in the time of her impurity, or if she has an issue beyond the time of her impurity, she shall be all the days of the issue of her uncleanness as in the days of her impurity; she is unclean.
Every bed on which she lies all the days of her issue shall be to her as the bed of her impurity, and everything on which she sits shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her impurity.
And whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
But if she is cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
And on the eighth day she shall take to her two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the tent of meeting.
And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and the priest shall make atonement for her before Jehovah for the issue of her uncleanness.
Thus ye shall separate the sons of Israel from their uncleanness, that they not die in their uncleanness when they defile my tabernacle that is in the midst of them.
This is the law of him who has an issue, and of him whose seed of copulation goes from him, so that he is unclean thereby,
and of her who is sick with her impurity, and of him who has an issue, of the man, and of the woman, and of him who lies with her who is unclean.