To the chief musician. A Psalm of David. Waiting I have waited on Jehovah; and He bowed to me and heard my cry.
And He drew me up from the pit of tumult, out of the miry clay; He set my feet on a rock; He directed my steps.
And He put a new song of praise to our God in my mouth; many shall see and shall fear and shall trust in Jehovah.
Blessed is the man who sets Jehovah as his trust, and does not turn to the proud, or to those who turn to a lie.
Many things have You done, O Jehovah my God; Your works of wonder and Your purposes toward us; there is none to set in order to You; I will declare and I will speak; they are more than can be counted.
Sacrifice and offering You did not desire; You have opened ears to Me. You have not asked burnt offering and sin offering.
Then I said, Lo, I come, in the roll of the Book it is written of Me;
I delight to do Your will, O My God; and Your law is within My inmost soul .
I have announced righteousness in the great assembly; behold, I will not restrain My lips; O Jehovah You know.
I have not concealed Your righteousness in My heart; I speak Your faithfulness and Your salvation. I have not hidden Your loving-kindness and Your truth for the great assembly.
Do not withhold Your tender mercies from Me, O Jehovah; let Your lovingkindness and Your truth always watch over Me.
For evils have surrounded me until there is no number; my iniquities have taken hold on me and I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart fails me.
Be pleased to deliver me, O Jehovah; hasten to my help.
Let be ashamed and humbled together those seeking my soul, to destroy it; let those delighting in my evil be driven back and disgraced.
Let them be desolate until it is the reward for their shame; for they are saying to me, Aha! Aha!
Let all who are seeking You be glad in You and always say, May Jehovah be magnified, those loving Your salvation.
But I am poor and needy; the Lord will take thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer; O my God, do not delay.