Stand firm in the liberty with which Christ made us free, and be not again bound fast to the yoke of bondage.
Behold, I Paul say to you, that if ye are circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing;
yea, I testify again to every one who becometh circumcised, that he is bound to keep the whole Law.
Ye are entirely separated from Christ, who seek to obtain righteousness through the Law; ye have fallen away from grace.
For we through the Spirit by faith steadfastly wait for the hope of righteousness.
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision; but faith working by love.
Ye were running well; who hindered you, that ye should not obey the truth?
This persuasion came not from him that called you.
A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.
I indeed have confidence in regard to you in the Lord, that ye will be no otherwise minded; but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whoever he may be.
But as for me, brethren, if I still preach circumcision, why do I still suffer persecution? Then hath the cross ceased to be a stumbling-block.
Would that they who unsettle you would quite cut themselves off!
For ye, brethren, were called to liberty; only use not your liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by your love serve one another.
For the whole Law is fulfilled in one commandment, even in this "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
But if ye bite and devour one another, beware lest ye be consumed by one another.
But I say, Walk by the Spirit, and ye will not fulfill the desires of the flesh.
For the flesh hath desires against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these oppose one another, that ye may not do the things that ye would.
But if ye are led by the Spirit, ye are not under the Law.
Now the works of the flesh are manifest; such as fornication, uncleanness, wantonness,
idolatry, sorcery, hatreds, strife, rivalry, outbursts of wrath, cabals, divisions, factions,
envyings, drunkenness, revelings, and things like these; of which I tell you beforehand, as I also told you in time past, that they who practise such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
meekness, temperance; against such things as these there is no law.
And they who belong to Christ Jesus crucified the flesh with the passions and lusts.
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Let us not become vain-glorious, provoking one another, envying one another.