And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Execute the vengeance of the sons of Israel against the Midianites. Afterward you shall be gathered to your people.
And Moses spoke to the people, saying, Some men of you be armed for the army, and they shall be against Midian, to give the vengeance of Jehovah on Midian;
you shall send to the army a thousand for a tribe as to all the tribes of Israel.
And a thousand for a tribe were given out of the thousands of Israel, twelve thousand armed ones of the army.
And Moses sent them to the army, a thousand for a tribe, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest to the army. Also he sent the holy vessels, and the trumpets to sound in his hand.
And they warred against Midian, as Jehovah had commanded Moses, and killed every male.
And they killed the kings of Midian, besides the rest of their slain: Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, five kings of Midian. They also killed Balaam the son of Beor with the sword.
And the sons of Israel took the women of Midian captive, and their infants, and all their livestock, and all their purchased things. And they plundered all their wealth.
And they burned all their cities with fire, their homes, and all their towers.
And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, among man and among animal.
And they brought it to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the congregation of the sons of Israel; the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, to the camp, to the plains of Moab which are by Jordan, near Jericho.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest, and all the rulers of the congregation went out to meet them outside the camp.
And Moses was angry with the officers of the army, the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds who came from the service of the war.
And Moses said to them, Have you saved all the women alive?
Behold, these through the counsel of Balaam caused the sons of Israel a deliverance of treachery against Jehovah in the matter of Peor; and the plague was on the company of Jehovah.
And now kill every male among the infants; yea, you shall kill every woman having known a man by lying with a male.
And you shall keep alive for yourselves all the female children who have not known a man by lying with a male.
And encamp outside the camp seven days. Whoever has killed any person, and whoever touched a pierced one, purify yourselves on the third day and on the seventh day, you and your captives.
And as to every garment, and all that is made of skin, and all work of goats' hair, and all things made of wood, you shall purify them .
And Eleazar the priest said to the men of war who went to battle, This is the statute of the law which Jehovah has commanded Moses:
only the gold, the silver, the copper, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
everything that passes through the fire, you shall make it go through the fire; and it shall be clean. Only it shall be purified with the water for impurity. And every thing that cannot go through the fire, you shall make go through the water.
And you shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and you shall be clean. And afterwards you shall come into the camp.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Lift the heads of the prey of the captives. among man and among beast, you and Eleazar the priest, and the heads of the fathers of the congregation.
And you shall divide the prey between those skilled in war, that went out to battle, and all the congregation.
And you shall levy a tribute to Jehovah from the men of war who went out to the battle: one body out of five hundred, of men, and of the herd, and of the asses, and of the flock,
you shall take from their half, and you shall give to Eleazar the priest as the heave offering of Jehovah.
And from the sons of Israel's half, you shall take one portion out of fifty, of man, and of the herd, and of the asses, and of the flock, of all the livestock, and you shall give them to the Levites keeping the charge of the tabernacle of Jehovah.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And the prey, the rest of the spoil which the people of the army plundered, was six hundred and seventy five thousand sheep,
and seventy two thousand oxen,
sixty one thousand of the asses;
and of human beings, of the women who had not known a man by lying with a male, the persons were thirty two thousand.
And the half, the portion of those who went out to the war, the number of the flock was three hundred and thirty seven thousand, five hundred.
And the tribute to Jehovah of the sheep was six hundred and seventy five,
and the oxen, thirty six thousand; and their tribute to Jehovah, seventy two;
and the asses thirty thousand, five hundred; and their tribute to Jehovah, sixty one;
and the human beings sixteen thousand; and their tribute to Jehovah, thirty two persons.
And Moses gave the tribute, the heave offering of Jehovah, to Eleazar the priest, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And of the sons of Israel's half, which Moses divided from the men who warred:
even the congregation's half was three hundred and thirty seven thousand, five hundred of the flock;
and of the oxen, thirty six thousand;
and thirty thousand, five hundred asses;
and sixteen thousand human beings.
Moses took from the sons of Israel's half the one portion from the fifty of man and of animal. And he gave them to the Levites keeping the charge of the tabernacle of Jehovah, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And the officers who were over the thousands of the army, heads of the thousands and heads of the hundreds, drew near to Moses.
And they said to Moses, Your servants have lifted the heads of the men of war who were with us, and not a man of us is missing.
And we bring near Jehovah's offering, each what he has found, vessels of gold, chains, and bracelets, rings, earrings, and jewels, to atone for ourselves before Jehovah.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from them, all crafted things.
And all the gold of the heave offering which they lifted up to Jehovah was sixteen thousand, seven hundred and fifty shekels, from the heads of thousands and from the heads of hundreds,
men of the army who had each taken spoil for himself.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from the heads of the thousands and of the hundreds. And they brought it into the tabernacle of the congregation, a memorial for the sons of Israel before Jehovah.