Now we beseech you, my brothers, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to Him,
that you should not be soon shaken in mind or troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word or letter, as through us, as if the Day of Christ is at hand.
Let not anyone deceive you by any means. For that Day shall not come unless there first comes a falling away, and the man of sin shall be revealed, the son of perdition,
who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worshiped, so that he sits as God in the temple of God, setting himself forth, that he is God.
Do you not remember that I told you these things when I was still with you?
And now you know what holds him back, for him to might be revealed in his own time.
For the mystery of lawlessness is already working, only he is now holding back until it comes out of the midst.
And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the breath of His mouth and shall destroy with the brightness of His coming,
whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
and with all deceit of unrighteousness in those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth, so that they might be saved.
And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie,
so that all those who do not believe the truth, but delight in unrighteousness, might be condemned.
But we are bound to give thanks always to God for you, brothers beloved of the Lord, because God has from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth,
to which He called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore, my brothers, stand fast and hold the teachings which you have been taught, whether by word or by our letter.
Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God, even our Father, who has loved us and has given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace,
comfort your hearts and establish you in every good word and work.