So the two messengers went in towards Sodom at eventide, Lot, being seated in the gate of Sodom,—so Lot beheld and rose up to meet them, and bowed himself with his face to the earth.
And he said Behold, I pray you my lords turn aside, I pray you, into the house of your servant,—and tarry the night and bathe your feet, so shall ye rise early, and go on your way. And they said, Nay, but, in the broad way, will we tarry the night.
But he became exceeding urgent with them, so they turned aside unto him and entered into his house,—and he made for them a banquet, unleavened cakes, also did he bake, and they did eat.
Ere yet they lay down, the men of the city—the men of Sodom, had come round against the house, from youth even unto age,—all the people from every quarter,
And they called unto Lot and said to him, Where are the men who have come in unto thee tonight? Bring them forth unto us, and let us know them!
And Lot went forth unto them to the entrance; but the door, closed he behind him.
And he said,—Do not I pray you my brethren act wickedly.
Behold, I pray you, I, have two daughters who have not known man, I must needs now bring, them, forth unto you, and do ye to them, as may be good in your eyes,—Only to these men, ye may do nothing; for on this account, have they come under the shade of my roof.
And they said, Stand back, And they said, This one, by himself, hath come in to sojourn and must always be acting the judge, Now, will we do more wickedly to thee, than to them. So they pressed sore upon the man—upon Lot—exceedingly, and drew near to break open the door.
And the men thrust forth their hand, and brought Lot in unto them into the house—and, the door, they closed:
the men also who were at the entrance of the house, smote they with blindness, from small even unto great, so that they wearied themselves to find the entrance.
And the men said unto Lot, Whom besides hast thou here? Son-in-law and thy sons and thy daughters, and all that thou hast in the city, bring thou forth out of the place;
For we are about to destroy this place,—for, great, is the outcry of them unto the face of Yahweh, so that Yahweh hath sent us to destroy it.
And Lot went forth and spake unto his sons-in-law who were about to take his two daughters and said Arise come forth out of this place, for Yahweh is about to destroy the city. And it came to pass, that he was as one that laughed, in the eyes of his sons-in-law.
But as soon as, the dawn had sprung up, the messengers hastened Lot saying,—Arise! take thy wife and thy two daughters that are at hand, lest thou be swept away in the punishment of the city.
And he lingered—so the men laid hold of his hand and of the hand of his wife and of the hand of his two daughters, in the tenderness of Yahweh towards him,—and they brought him out and led him forth outside the city.
And it came to pass when they had brought them forth outside, that they said, Escape for thy life, Look not behind thee, neither stand still in all the vale,—To the mountain, escape thou lest thou be swept away.
And Lot said unto them,—No, I pray thee, My Lord!
Behold, I pray thee thy servant hath found favour in thine eyes, so that thou hast magnified thy lovingkindness which thou hast performed with me in keeping alive my soul.—But, I, cannot escape to the mountain, lest calamity overtake me so shall I die.
Behold, I pray thee, this city, is near for fleeing thither And, it, is a little one, let me I pray thee, escape thither—is it not a, little, one? That my soul may live!
And he said unto him, Behold! I have lifted up thy countenance, even as to this thing,—so that I will not overthrow the city, of which thou hast spoken.
Haste thee escape thither, for I cannot do anything, until thou have come in thither. For this cause: was the name of the city called Zoar.
When, the sun, had come forth on the earth, Lot had entered into Zoar.
And, Yahweh, rained, upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah, brimstone and fire,—from Yahweh, out of the heavens:
so he overthrew these cities, and all the circuit,—and all the inhabitants of the cities, and the produce of the ground.
But his wife looked from behind him,—and became—a pillar of salt.
And Abraham gat up early in the morning, unto the place where he had stood before Yahweh;
and he looked out over the face of Sodom and Gomorrah, and over all the face of the land of the circuit, and beheld and lo! the smoke of the land went up, like the smoke of a furnace.
And it came to pass when God destroyed the cities of the circuit, that God remembered Abraham, and sent forth Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities wherein Lot had dwelt.
And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain and his two daughters with him. for he feared to dwell in Zoar, so he dwelt in a cave, he, and his two daughters.
And the firstborn said unto the younger. Our father is old,—and, a man, there is not in the earth to come in unto us, after the way of all the earth.
Come on! let us cause our father to drink wine and let us lie with him, that we may keep alive from our father, a seed.
So they caused their father to drink wine that night,—and the firstborn went in. and lay with her father, but he noticed not her lying down nor her rising up.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto the younger, Lo! I lay, last night with my father, let us cause him to drink wine this night also, and go thou in—lie with him, that we may keep alive from our father, a seed.
So they caused their father, on that night also to drink wine, and the younger arose, and lay with him, but he noticed not her lying down, nor her rising up.
Thus did, the two daughters of Lot conceive from their father.
And the firstborn bare a son, and called his name Moab,—the same, is the father of Moab, unto this day.
And the younger she also bare a son, and called his name Ben-ammi,—the same, is the father of the sons of Ammon—unto this day.