And they brought in the ark of God, and set it down in the middle of the tent that David had pitched for it. And they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.
And when David finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offering, and he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah;
even he passed out to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to each a loaf of bread, a portion, and a raisin cake.
And he set before the ark of Jehovah ministers from the Levites, even to celebrate and to thank and to give praise to Jehovah the God of Israel:
Asaph the head, and Zechariah his second; Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with instruments of harps, and with lyres; and Asaph was sounding with the cymbals.
And Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests were continually with trumpets before the ark of the covenant of God.
Then on that day David first gave by the hand of Asaph and his brothers to give thanks to Jehovah.
O give thanks to Jehovah; call on His name; make known His deeds among the peoples.
Sing to Him, sing psalms to Him; tell of all His marvelous works.
Glory in His holy name; let the heart of those seeking Jehovah rejoice.
Seek Jehovah and His strength, seek His face continually.
Remember His wonders that He has done, His signs, and the judgments of His mouth,
O seed of Israel, His servant; O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones.
He is Jehovah our God, His judgments are in all the earth.
Remember His covenant forever, the word He gave to a thousand generations,
which He has made with Abraham, and His oath to Isaac;
and He established it to Jacob for a statute, to Israel as a covenant forever,
saying, I will give you the land of Canaan, the allotment of your inheritance;
when you were few in number, even very few, and sojourners in it,
and they went up and down, from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people.
He has not allowed any to oppress them; yea, for their sake He has reproved kings:
Touch not My anointed ones, and do My prophets no evil.
Sing to Jehovah, all the earth, proclaim His salvation from day to day.
Declare His glory among the nations, His wonders among all the peoples.
For great is Jehovah, and greatly to be praised; and He is to be feared above all gods.
all gods of the peoples are nothings; yea, Jehovah has made the heavens.
Honor and majesty are before Him; strength and gladness are in His place.
Give to Jehovah, O kindred of the people, give to Jehovah glory and strength.
Give to Jehovah the glory of His name; bring an offering and come before Him; worship Jehovah in the adornment of holiness.
Tremble before Him, all the earth; yea, the earth is established, it shall not be moved!
Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; and let them say among nations, Jehovah reigns.
Let the sea roar, and the fullness of it; let the fields rejoice, and all in them.
Then the trees of the forest will sing out before Jehovah, for He has come to judge the earth.
Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good; for His mercy endures forever.
And say, O save us, God of our salvation; and gather us, and deliver us from the nations, that we may give thanks to Your holy name, that we may glory in Your praise.
Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting. And all the people said, Amen, and gave praise to Jehovah.
And he left there before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, for Asaph and for his brothers, to minister before the ark continually to the matter of a day in its day;
also, Obed-edom and their brothers, sixty eight; and Obededom the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah, as gatekeepers;
and Zadok the priest, and his brothers the priests, before the tabernacle of Jehovah, in the high place that was in Gibeon;
to offer the burnt offerings to Jehovah on the altar of the burnt offering continually, to the morning, and to evening, even to all that was written in the law of Jehovah, which He commanded Israel;
and with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest that were chosen, who were designated by name, to give thanks to Jehovah, because His mercy endures forever;
and with them Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those making a sound, and instruments of the song of God; and the sons of Jeduthun were at the gate.
And all the people departed, each to his house; and David returned to bless his house.