And it came to pass as he was in a certain place praying, that when he ceased, a certain man of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray as John also taught his disciples.
And he said to them, When ye pray, say, Our Father in the heavens, hallowed be thy name. May thy kingdom come, may thy will happen on the earth as also in heaven.
Give us our bread sufficient for each day.
And forgive us our sins, for we ourselves also forgive every man who is indebted to us. And bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
And he said to them, Which of you will have a friend, and will go to him at midnight, and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves,
since a friend arrived from the road to me, and I do not have what I would set before him,
and that man from inside, having answered, would say, Do not cause toils for me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I am not able, after getting up, to give thee?
I say to you, though he will not give him, after getting up, because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence, having awaken, he will give him as many as he needs.
And I say to you, ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and ye will find. Knock, and it will be opened.
For every man who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened.
And which father of you, if the son will ask a loaf, will give him a stone, or also if a fish, in place of a fish will give him a serpent?
Or if he should ask for an egg, will he give him a scorpion?
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more the Father from heaven will give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?
And he was casting out a demon, and it was mute. And it happened when the demon was gone out, the mute man spoke. And the multitudes marveled,
but some of them said, He casts out the demons by Beelzebub, ruler of the demons.
And others, challenging, sought from him a sign from the sky.
But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom that was divided against itself is made desolate, and a house against a house falls.
And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom be made to stand? Because ye say that I cast out the demons by Beelzebub.
And if I cast out the demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Because of this they will be your judges.
But if by a finger of God I cast out the demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
When the fully armed strong man guards his palace, the things possessed by him are in peace,
but when a stronger than he comes, after defeating him, he takes away his full armor in which he trusted, and divides his booty.
He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters.
When the unclean spirit departs out of the man, it passes through waterless places seeking rest. And not finding, it says, I will return to my house from where I came out.
And when it comes, it finds it swept and put in order.
Then it goes, and takes along seven other spirits more evil than itself, and having enter in, it dwells there. And the last state of that man becomes worse than the first.
And it came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman, having lifted up her voice out of the crowd, said to him, Blessed is the belly that bore thee, and the breasts that thou suckled.
But he said, Blessed rather, are those who hear the word of God, and keep it.
And when the multitudes gathered together he began to say, This generation is evil. They seek a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah, the prophet.
For as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so also the Son of man will be to this generation.
The queen of the south will awake in the judgment with the men of this generation, and will condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
The men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, a greater than Jonah is here.
And no man, having lit a lamp, puts it in a concealed place, nor under the bushel, but on the lampstand, so that those who enter in may see the light.
The lamp of thy body is the eye. Therefore, when thine eye is sound, thy whole body is also bright, but when it is bad, thy body is also dark.
Watch therefore the light in thee not be darkness.
If therefore thy whole body is bright, not having any part dark, the whole will be bright, as when the lamp illuminates thee by the radiance.
Now as he spoke a certain Pharisee asks him that he might dine with him. And having entered in, he sat down.
And when the Pharisee saw, he marveled that he did not first wash before dinner.
And the Lord said to him, Now ye Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter, but your interior is full of plundering and wickedness.
Ye foolish men, did not he who made the outside also make the inside?
But give compassion, things that are inside, and behold, all things are clean to you.
But woe to you Pharisees! Because ye tithe mint and rue and every plant, and pass by justice and the love of God. It is necessary to do these things, and not to neglect those things.
Woe to you Pharisees! Because ye love the place of honor in the synagogues, and the greetings in the marketplaces.
Woe to you scholars and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because ye are like the unseen sepulchers, and the men who walk over them do not know.
And having answered, a certain man of the lawyers says to him, Teacher, in saying these things thou rebuke us also.
And he said, Woe also to you lawyers! Because ye load men with burdens difficult to bear, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers.
Woe to you! Because ye build the sepulchers of the prophets, but your fathers killed them.
Consequently, ye testify and approve the works of your fathers, because they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchers.
Because of this also the wisdom of God said, I will send to them prophets and apostles. And some of them they will kill and persecute,
so that the blood of all the prophets that was shed from the foundation of the world may be required of this generation,
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I say to you, it will be required of this generation.
Woe to you lawyers! Because ye took away the key of knowledge. Ye did not enter in yourselves, and ye hindered those who were entering in.
And after he said these things to them, the scholars and the Pharisees began to harass him extremely, and to provoke him to speak impulsively about more things,
waiting to ambush him, seeking to catch something out of his mouth so that they might accuse him.