And Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked. And, behold, Esau was coming, and four hundred men with him. And he divided the children to Leah, and to Rachel, and to the two slave-girls.
And he put the slave-girls and their children first; and Leah and her children behind: and Rachel and Joseph last.
And he passed over in front of them and bowed himself to the ground seven times until he came even to his brother.
And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck and kissed him. And they wept.
And he lifted up his eyes and saw the women and the children And he said, Who are these with you? And he said, The children with whom God has favored your servant.
And the slave-girls came near, they and their children; and they bowed.
And Leah and her children also came near and bowed. And afterward Rachel and Joseph came near and bowed.
And he said, Whose is all this camp which I met? And he said, To find favor in the eyes of my lord.
And Esau said, I have much, my brother. Let what you have be to yourself.
And Jacob said, No, please, if I now have found favor in your eyes, take my present from my hands. For I have seen your face, like seeing the face of God; and you are pleased with me.
Please take my blessing which has been brought to you, because God has favored me, and because I have all things. And he urged him; and he accepted.
And he said, Let us depart and go, and I will go with you.
And he said to him, My lord knows that the children are tender, and the flocks and the herds with me are suckling. And if they overdrive them one day, all the flocks will die.
Please let my lord go before the face of his servant, and I will move on by stages at my ease, according to the pace of the livestock which are before me, and according to the pace of the children, until I come into my lord to Seir.
And Esau said, Please let me place with you some of the people who are with me. And he said, Why, then? Let me find favor in the eyes of my lord.
And Esau returned on his way toward Seir that day.
And Jacob traveled to Succoth. And he built himself a house, and made booths for his livestock. For this reason he called the name of the place Succoth.
And Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, as he came from Padan-aram And he camped in front of the city.
And he bought that part of the field where he had pitched his tent, from the hand of the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for a hundred pieces of money.
And he set up an altar there. And he called it, El, the God of Israel.