Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end.
And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him;
Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God;
He rises from supper, and laid aside his garments; and took a towel, and girded himself.
After that he pours water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded.
Then comes he to Simon Peter: and Peter says unto him, Lord, do you wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do you know not now; but you shall know hereafter.
Peter says unto him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash you not, you have no part with me.
Simon Peter says unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head.
Jesus says to him, He that is washed needs not save to wash his feet, but is clean everything: and all of you are clean, but not all.
For he knew who should betray him; therefore said he, All of you are not all clean.
So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set down again, he said unto them, Know all of you what I have done to you?
All of you call me Master and Lord: and all of you say well; for so I am.
If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; all of you also ought to wash one another's feet.
For I have given you an example, that all of you should do as I have done to you.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord; neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him.
If all of you know these things, happy are all of you if all of you do them.
I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me.
Now I tell you before it come, that, when it has come to pass, all of you may believe that I am he.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receives whomsoever I send receives me; and he that receives me receives him that sent me.
When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, (o. pneuma) and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.
Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spoke.
Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved.
Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it should be of whom he spoke.
He then lying on Jesus' breast says unto him, Lord, who is it?
Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a morsel, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
And after the morsel Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That you do, do quickly.
Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spoke this unto him.
For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of against the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.
He then having received the morsel went immediately out: and it was night.
Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall immediately glorify him.
Little children, yet a little while I am with you. All of you shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Where I go, all of you cannot come; so now I say to you.
A new commandment I give unto you, That all of you love one another; as I have loved you, that all of you also love one another.
By this shall all men know that all of you are my disciples, if all of you have love (o. agape) one to another.
Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, where go you? Jesus answered him, Where I go, you can not follow me now; but you shall follow me afterwards.
Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow you now? I will lay down my life for your sake.
Jesus answered him, Will you lay down your life for my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto you, The cock shall not crow, till you have denied me three times.