Give ye thanks to Yahweh—For he is good, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
I pray you! let Israel, say, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
I pray you! let the house of Aaron, say, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
I pray you! let them who revere Yahweh, say, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Out of a strait, called I on Yah, He answered me with enlargement.
Yahweh, is on my side, I will not fear, What can man, do unto me?
Yahweh, is on my side, with them who help me, I, therefore shall gaze upon them who hate me.
It is, better to seek refuge in Yahweh, than to put confidence in man:
It is, better to seek refuge in Yahweh, than to put confidence in nobles.
All nations, have compassed me about, In the Name of Yahweh, surely I will make them be circumcised;
They have compassed me about—yea compassed me about, In the Name of Yahweh, surely I will make them be circumcised;
They have compassed me about like wax bees, they have blazed up like the fire of thorns, In the Name of Yahweh, surely I will make them be circumcised.
Thou didst, thrust sore, at me that I might fall, But, Yahweh, hath helped me.
My might and melody, is Yah, and he hath become mine by salvation.
The voice of shouting and salvation, is in the tents of the righteous, The right hand of Yahweh, is doing valiantly:
The right hand of Yahweh, is exalted, The right hand of Yahweh, is doing valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, That I may recount the doings of Yah.
Yah, chastened me sore, But, unto death, did not deliver me.
Open to me the gates of righteousness, I will enter therein, I will give thanks unto Yah.
This, is the gate for Yahweh, Such as are righteous, shall enter therein.
I will thank thee, because thou hast answered me, And hast become mine, by salvation.
A stone the builders refused, hath become the head of the corner:
From Yahweh, hath this come to pass, The same, is marvellous in our eyes.
This is the day, which Yahweh hath made, We will exult, and be glad therein.
Ah now, Yahweh, do save, we beseech thee, Ah now, Yahweh, do send success, we beseech thee!
Blessed be he that entereth, In the Name of Yahweh, we have blessed you, out of the house of Yahweh.
Yahweh is GOD, and hath shed on us light,—Bind ye the festal sacrifice with cords, Up to the horns of the altar.
My GOD, thou art, and I will thank thee,—My Elohim, I will exalt thee.
Give ye thanks to Yahweh—For he is good, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.