Give ye thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Give ye thanks to the God of gods, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Give ye thanks to the Lord of lords, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that doeth great wonders, by himself alone, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that made the heavens with understanding, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that stretched out the earth above the waters, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that made great lights, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
The sun to rule the day, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
The moon and stars to rule the night, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And brought forth Israel out of their midst, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
With a firm hand, and a stretched-out arm, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that divided the Red Sea into division, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And caused Israel to pass through the midst thereof, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And shook off Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that led his people through the desert, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
To him that smote great kings, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And slew majestic kings, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Even Sihon, king of the Amorites, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Also Og, king of Bashan, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And gave their land for an inheritance, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
An inheritance to Israel his servant, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Who in our low estate, remembered us, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And freed us with force from our adversaries, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Who giveth food to all flesh, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Give ye thanks unto the GOD of the heavens, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.