AND entering into Jericho, he passed through.
And there was a person whose name was Zaccheus, and he was a principal farmer of the taxes, and the man was rich.
And he was desirous to have a sight of Jesus, what sort of person he was; and he could not, because of the crowd, for he was short of stature.
So running before, he climbed up a sycamore-tree, in order to get a sight of him: for he was about to pass that way.
And when he was come to the spot, Jesus looking up, saw him, and said to him, Zaccheus, come down speedily; for to-day I must abide at thy house.
And he hastened to come down, and entertained him gladly.
And when they all saw it, they murmured, saying, That he is gone to lodge with a man, a notorious sinner.
Then Zaccheus standing up, said unto the Lord, Behold, the half of my goods, Lord, I give unto the poor; and if I have got any thing from any man, by laying false informations, I am ready to restore fourfold.
Then said Jesus unto him, To-day is salvation come to this house, because that he also is a son of Abraham.
For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
And as they were hearkening to these things, he proceeded on, and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and they supposed that immediately the kingdom of God would openly appear.
He said therefore, A certain man of noble family went into a distant region, to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
And calling his ten servants, he gave them ten manehs, and said unto them, Employ yourselves in traffic, till I come back.
But his citizens hated him, and sent an embassy after him, saying, We will not have this man to rule over us.
And it came to pass, at his return, after receiving the kingdom, that he ordered the servants to be called, to whom he had given the money, that he might know what every one had gained by his traffic.
Then came the first, and said, Sir, thy maneh has gained ten manehs.
And he said unto him, Well done, good servant: because thou hast been faithful in the least matter, hold thou dominion over ten cities.
And the second came, saying, Lord, thy maneh hath gained five manehs.
Then said he also to this man, Be thou also over five cities.
And another came, saying, Master, there is thy maneh, which I have kept wrapt up in a napkin:
for I was afraid of thee, because thou art an austere man: thou takest up where thou hadst laid nothing down, and reapest where thou didst not sow.
And he said to him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I am an austere man, taking up what I laid not down, and reaping what I did not sow;
why then gavest thou not my money to the bank, so when I came I might have required it with interest?
And he said to those who stood by, Take from him the maneh, and give it to him who hath the ten manehs.
(And they say unto him, Sir, he hath ten manehs.)
For I say unto you, That to every one who hath, shall more be given; but from him that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away from him.
But as for these enemies of mine, who would not that I should reign over them, bring them hither, and slay them before me.
And having thus spoken, he proceeded forward, going up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass, as he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, to the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
saying, Go into the opposite village; in which, as ye are at the entrance, ye will find a foal tied, on which no man hath ever yet sat: loose, and bring him.
And if any man ask you, Why ye loose it? thus shall ye say to him, That the Lord hath need of him.
Then they who were sent, going, found it just as he had described to them.
And as they were untying the foal, the owners of it said to them, Why loose ye the foal?
And they said, The Lord hath need of him.
And they brought him to Jesus: and throwing their cloaks on the foal, they set Jesus thereon.
And as he went, they spread under him their garments on the road.
And when he was now approaching, at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples rejoicing began to praise God with a loud voice for all the miracles which they had seen;
saying, Blessed is the King, who cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said unto him, Master, reprove thy disciples.
And he replying said to them. I tell you that, should these be silent, the very stones would cry out.
And as he drew near, beholding the city, he wept over it,
saying, Oh that thou hadst known, even in this thy day, the things that are for thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes.
For the days will come upon thee, when thy enemies shall cast up a trench around thee, and encircle thee about, and straiten thee on every side,
and will dash thee on the ground, and thy children within thee; and will not leave in thee one stone upon another: because thou knewest not the season of thy visitation.
And entering into the temple, he began to cast out those who sold and bought in the temple;
saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of robbers.
And he continued daily teaching in the temple. Then the chief priests and the scribes sought to destroy him, with the heads of the people,
but did not discover how they could do any thing: for all the people attentively hung on his lips.