Son, have you sinned? You should not add further sins. Then too, for your former sins, pray so that they may be forgiven you.
Flee from sins, as if from the face of a serpent. For if you approach them, they will take hold of you.
Their teeth are like the teeth of a lion, bringing death to the souls of men.
All iniquity is like a two-edged spear; there is no healing in its wound.
Reproach and injury will make resources useless. And a house that is exceedingly wealthy will become powerless through pride. In this way, the resources of the arrogant will be eradicated.
Supplications from the mouth of the pauper will reach all the way to the ears of God, and judgment will come to him quickly.
Whoever hates correction is walking in the steps of a sinner. But whoever fears God will convert within his heart.
He who has power by means of a bold tongue will be known from far away. But an understanding man knows to slip past him.
Whoever builds his house, paid for by another, is like one who gathers his building stones in winter.
The synagogue of sinners is like stubble piled up; for the end of them both is a burning fire.
The way of sinners is paved and level, and at their end is hell and darkness and punishments.
Whoever observes justice will obtain an understanding of it.
The consummation of the fear of God is wisdom and understanding.
One who is not wise in goodness will not accept instruction.
Now there is a wisdom which abounds in evil. But there is no understanding where there is bitterness.
The knowledge of the wise will increase like a flood, and his counsel will continue like a fountain of life.
The heart of the foolish is like a broken vessel, for it will not hold any wisdom.
A knowledgeable man will praise any wise word he hears, and he will apply it to himself. The self-indulgent man has heard it, and it displeases him, and so he casts it behind his back.
The talk of the foolish is like a burden on a journey. But in the lips of the understanding, grace will be found.
The mouth of the prudent is sought in the Church, and they will consider his words in their hearts.
Like a house which has been demolished, so is wisdom to the foolish. And the knowledge of the unwise is like meaningless words.
Doctrine to the senseless is like fetters on the feet, and like chains on the right hand.
A foolish man lifts up his voice in laughter. But a wise man will not even laugh quietly to himself.
Doctrine is to the prudent like a gold ornament, and like an armband on the right arm.
The feet of the foolish step easily into his neighbor’s house. But an experienced man will be apprehensive in the presence of the powerful.
A senseless man will gaze through a window into the house. But a man who has been well-taught will stand outside.
It is foolish for a man to listen through the door. And a prudent man will be grieved at this disgrace.
The lips of the imprudent will describe senseless things. But the words of the prudent will be weighed on a balance.
The hearts of the foolish are in their mouths. But the mouths of the wise are with their hearts.
Whenever the impious curse the devil, they curse their own soul.
Those who whisper accusations defile their own souls, and they will be hated by all. And whoever abides with them will be hateful. The silent and understanding man will be honored.