And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came unto him:
And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,
Blessed are the poor in spirit: (o. pneuma) for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.
Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are all of you, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil (o. rhema) against you falsely, for my sake.
Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.
All of you are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.
All of you are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.
Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it gives light unto all that are in the house.
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.
Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill.
For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.
Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, all of you shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.
All of you have heard that it was said of them of old time, You shall not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment:
But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, You fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.
Therefore if you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has ought against you;
Leave there your gift before the altar, and go your way; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
Agree with your adversary quickly, while you are in the way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be cast into prison.
Verily I say unto you, You shall by no means come out thence, till you have paid the uttermost farthing.
All of you have heard that it was said by them of old time, You shall not commit adultery:
But I say unto you, That whosoever looks on a woman to lust after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart.
And if your right eye offend you, pluck it out, and cast it from you: for it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be cast into hell.
And if your right hand offend you, cut it off, and cast it from you: for it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be cast into hell.
It has been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement:
But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause (o. logos) of fornication, causes her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced commits adultery.
Again, all of you have heard that it has been said by them of old time, You shall not renounce swearing yourself, but shall perform unto the Lord your oaths:
But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne:
Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King.
Neither shall you swear by your head, because you can not make one hair white or black.
But let your communication (o. logos) be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these comes of evil.
All of you have heard that it has been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth:
But I say unto you, That all of you resist not evil: but whosoever shall strike you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.
And if any man will sue you at the law, and take away your coat, let him have your cloak also.
And whosoever shall compel you to go a mile, go with him two.
Give to him that asks you, and from him that would borrow of you turn not you away.
All of you have heard that it has been said, You shall love your neighbour, and hate your enemy.
But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;
That all of you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he makes his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
For if all of you love them which love you, what reward have all of you? do not even the publicans the same?
And if all of you salute your brethren only, what do all of you more than others? do not even the publicans so?
Be all of you therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.