NOW concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I should write to you:
for yourselves know precisely that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.
For when they say, Peace and safety, then sudden destruction rusheth upon them, as travail on a woman with child, and they shall in no wise escape.
But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you as a thief.
Ye are all the children of light, and the children of day: we are not the children of night, nor of darkness.
Let us not then sleep as do others; but let us watch and be sober.
For they who sleep, sleep in the night, and they who are drunken, are drunken in the night;
but let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation.
For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, that whether we sleep, or whether we wake, we may live together with him.
Wherefore comfort one another, and edify one another, as also ye do.
Now we entreat you, brethren, to know those who labour among you, and preside over you in the Lord, and admonish you;
and to account of them very highly in love for their work’s sake. And live in peace among yourselves.
Now we conjure you, brethren, admonish the unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the infirm, be patient with all men.
See that no man return evil for evil to any man; but always pursue that which is good, both towards one another, and towards all men.
Rejoice evermore.
Pray without ceasing.
In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus to you-wards.
Quench not the Spirit.
Despise not prophesyings.
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.
Abstain from all appearance of evil.
Now the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly; and may your whole spirit, and soul, and body be preserved faultless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it.
Brethren, pray for us.
Salute all the brethren with an holy kiss.
I conjure you by the Lord, that this epistle be read to all the holy brethren.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.   The first epistle to the Thessalonians was written from Athens. \p