And he said to them: Verily I say to you, There are some of these standing here who shall not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God come in power.
And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, and led them up alone into a high mountain apart; and he was transfigured before them;
and his raiment became shining, exceeding white like snow, as no fuller on earth could whiten them.
And there appeared to them Elijah, with Moses; and they were talking with Jesus.
And Peter answering, said to Jesus: Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tents, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
For he knew not what to say, for they were greatly afraid.
And there was a cloud that overshadowed them; and a voice came from the cloud, This is my beloved Son; hear him.
And suddenly looking around, they no longer saw any one but Jesus only with themselves.
And as they were coming down from the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen, till the Son of man should rise from the dead.
And they kept the matter to themselves, inquiring of one another what the rising from the dead could mean.
And they asked him, saying: Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And he answered and said to them: Elijah comes first, and restores all things, and, as it is written of the Son of man, that he must suffer many things, and be despised, so Elijah is to suffer.
But I say to you, that Elijah has already come, and they have clone to him what they wished: [as it is written of him.]
And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and scribes disputing with them.
And at once, all the multitude, on seeing him, were struck with awe, and ran to him and saluted him.
And he asked the scribes: Why are you disputing with, them?
And one of the multitude answered and said: Teacher, I brought to you my son, who has a dumb spirit.
And wherever it seizes him, it throws him into convulsions; and he foams, and gnashes with his teeth, and pines away: and I spoke to your disciples to cast him out, and they were not able.
And he answered them, and said: O faithless generation! how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me.
And they brought him to him. And when he saw him, the spirit immediately threw him into convulsions; and he fell on the ground, and rolled himself, foaming.
And he asked his father: How long is it since this came upon him? He replied: From childhood.
And often it throws him into the fire, and into the water, to destroy him. But if you are able to do any thing, have compassion on us, and help us.
Jesus said to him: If you are able to believe, all things are possible to him that believes.
And immediately the father of the child cried out, and with tears said: Lord, I believe; help my unbelief.
When Jesus saw that a multitude came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, and said to it: Dumb and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him, and enter into him no more.
And the spirit cried out, and threw him into strong convulsions, and came out of him; and he was like one dead, so that many said: He is dead.
But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up, and he arose.
And when he had come into the house, his disciples asked him privately: Why were we not able to cast it out?
And he said to them: This kind can go out by nothing, but by prayer and fasting.
And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee; and he wished no one to know it.
For he taught his disciples, and said to them: The Son of man is to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will put him to death; and after he is put to death, he will rise on the third day.
But they did not understand this saying, and they were afraid to question him.
And he came into Capernaum; and when he was in the house, he asked them: What were you disputing about among yourselves along the road?
But they were silent. For they had been disputing with one another along the road which was greatest.
And he sat down and called the twelve, and said to them: If any one desires to be first, he shall be last of all, and servant of all.
And he took a little child, and placed it in the midst of them; and when he had taken it in his arms, he said to them:
Whoever will receive one of such children on my account, receives me; and whoever will receive me, receives not me, but him that sent me.
And John answered him and said: Teacher, we saw one casting out demons in thy name, and he does not follow us: and we forbade him, because he does not follow us.
But Jesus said: Forbid him not; for there is no one that will do a mighty deed in my name, and be able readily to speak evil of me.
For he that is not against us, is for us.
For whoever will give you a cup of water to drink on this account, because you are Christ’s, verily I say to you, he shall not lose his reward.
And whoever will ensnare one of these little ones that believe on me, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung about his neck, and he were thrown into the sea.
And if your hand ensnare you, cut it off: it is better for you to enter maimed into life, than having two hands to go away into hell, into the fire that is not quenched,
where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if your foot ensnare you, cut it off: it is better for you to enter into life lame, than having two feet to Be thrown into hell, into the fire that is not quenched,
where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if your eye ensnare you, pull it out: it is better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be thrown into hell-fire,
where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched.
For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be seasoned with salt.
Salt is good; but if the salt shall have become saltless, by what means will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.