There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a prince of the Jews;
the same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that thou doest unless God is with him.
Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a person be born again, they cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus said unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born?
Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Unless a man is born of water and [of] the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.
The wind blows where it desires, and thou hearest the sound of it, but canst not tell from where it comes or where it goes; so is every one that is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can this be done?
Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a teacher of Israel and knowest not this?
Verily, verily, I say unto thee that we speak what we know and testify that which we have seen, and ye do not receive our witness.
If I have told you earthly things and ye do not believe, how shall ye believe if I tell you [of] heavenly things?
And no one has ascended up to the heaven but he that came down from the heaven, [even] the Son of man, who is in the heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up,
that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.
For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved.
He that believes on him is not condemned, but he that does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation, that the light is come into the world, and men loved darkness more than the light because their deeds were evil.
For every one that does evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
But he that does truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.
After these things Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judaea, and he tarried there with them and baptized.
And John also was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim because there was much water there, and they came and were baptized.
For John was not yet cast into prison.
Then there arose a question between the disciples of John and the Jews about purifying.
And they came unto John and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan of whom thou gave witness, behold, the same baptizes, and all [men] come to him.
John answered and said, A man can receive nothing except it is given him from the heaven.
Ye yourselves are my witnesses that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.
He that has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom's voice; this my joy therefore is fulfilled.
It is expedient [unto] him to increase, but [unto] me, to decrease.
He that comes from above is above all; he that is of the earth is earthly and speaks earthly things: he that comes from heaven is above all.
And what he has seen and heard, that he testifies; and no one receives his testimony.
He that has received his testimony has set to his seal that God is true.
For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God; for God does not give the Spirit by measure [unto him].
The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand.
He that believes in the Son has eternal life, and he that does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him.: