And there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim from the hills of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite.
And he had two wives the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the second, Peninnah. And Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And that man went up from his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice before Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests to Jehovah there.
And came the day, and Elkanah sacrificed. And he would give to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and her daughters portions.
And to Hannah he gave one double portion, for he loved Hannah. And Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And even to vexation her rival provoked her, so as to make her tremble, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And so he did year by year, as often as she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her. And she wept, and did not eat.
And her husband Elkanah said to her, Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why is your heart afflicted? Am I not better to you than ten sons?
And Hannah rose up after eating in Shiloh, and after drinking. And Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the side post of the temple of Jehovah.
And she was bitter of soul, and prayed to Jehovah, and she wept copiously.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if You will certainly look upon the affliction of Your handmaid, and shall remember me, and not forget Your handmaid, and shall give to Your maidservant a man-child, then I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life; and a razor shall not go up on his head.
And it happened, when she prayed long before Jehovah, Eli was watching her mouth.
And Hannah was speaking in her heart; only, her lips moved; but her voice could not be heard. So Eli thought that she was drunk.
And Eli said to her, How long will you be drunken? Put away your wine from you.
And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord; I am a woman pained in spirit. And I have not drunk wine or fermented drink, but I am pouring out my soul before Jehovah.
Do not put your handmaid down for a daughter of wickedness; for from the abundance of my complaint and vexation until now I have been speaking.
And Eli answered and said, Go in peace, and may the God of Israel give you your petition which you have asked of Him.
And she said, Let your handmaid find grace in your eyes. And the woman went her way, and ate, and her face was no longer sad.
And they rose up early in the morning and worshiped before Jehovah. And they went back and came to their house in Ramah. And Elkanah knew his wife Hannah, and Jehovah remembered her.
And it happened when the time had come around, Hannah conceived and bore a son. And she called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And the man Elkanah and all his house went up to sacrifice to Jehovah a sacrifice of the days, and to vow his vow.
And Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, Until the child is weaned, then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah and remain there forever.
And her husband Elkanah said to her, Do that which is good in your eyes. Remain until you wean him. Only, may Jehovah confirm His word. And the woman remained, and suckled her son until she had weaned him.
And when she had weaned him, she brought him up with her, along with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a skin of wine. And she brought him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh. And the child was a young one.
And they slaughtered the bullock, and brought the boy to Eli.
And she said, O my lord, may your soul live! My lord, I am the woman who stood with you here, to pray to Jehovah.
I prayed for this boy, and Jehovah has given my petition which I asked of Him to me.
And I also have loaned him to Jehovah; all the days which he shall be, he is loaned to Jehovah. And he worshiped there before Jehovah.