A Psalm of David. O Jehovah, contend with those who contend with me; fight those who fight against me.
Take hold of a shield and buckler, and arise as my help.
Draw out the spear and close ranks to meet my pursuers; say to my soul, I am your salvation.
Let those who seek my soul be ashamed and disgraced; let them be turned back and brought to confusion, those who plot evil to me.
Let them be as chaff before the wind, and the Angel of Jehovah driving away.
Let their way be dark and slippery, and the Angel of Jehovah their pursuer.
For they have hidden their pit-net for me without cause; without cause they have dug for my soul.
Let destruction come on him; he will not know; and let his net which he concealed catch him; let him fall in it, into destruction.
And my soul shall be joyful in Jehovah; it will rejoice in His salvation.
All my bones shall say: O Jehovah, who is like You, who delivers the poor from those stronger than he; yes, the poor and needy from his plunderer?
Witnesses of violence rise up; they asked me what I did not know;
they rewarded me evil for good, bereaving my soul.
But in their sickness, my clothing was sackcloth; I humbled my soul with fastings; and my prayer returned to my bosom.
I walked as a friend, as to my brother; as one who mourns a mother; I was bowed down mourning.
But they rejoiced in my stumbling, and assembled; the defamers assembled themselves against me, and I knew not; they tore and were not silent,
with the ungodly, mockers for a cake, gnashing their teeth on me.
O Lord, how long will You look on? Draw back my soul from their desolations, my only one from the lions.
I will thank You in the great assembly, and I will praise You among a mighty people.
Let not my lying enemies rejoice over me, do not let those who hate me without cause wink with the eye.
For they do not speak peace; but they devise deceitful things against the quiet ones of the earth.
And they open their mouth wide against me; they say, Aha! Aha! Our eyes have seen.
You have seen, O Jehovah; do not keep silence, O Lord, do not be far from me.
Stir Yourself and awaken to my judgment, to my cause, my God and my Lord.
Judge me, O Jehovah my God, according to Your righteousness; and do not let them rejoice over me.
Let them not say in their hearts, Aha! Our soul! Let them not say, We have swallowed him up.
Let them be ashamed and be confounded together, the ones who rejoice at my evil; let them be clothed with shame and dishonor, the ones who magnify themselves against me.
Let those who delight in my justification shout and rejoice; and they shall say without ceasing: Jehovah be magnified, delighting in the peace of His servant.
And my tongue will speak of Your righteousness and of Your praise all the day.