Lo! a day, cometh, pertaining to Yahweh,—when apportioned shall be thy spoil in thy midst;
Yea I will gather together all the nations unto Jerusalem, to battle, and the city, shall be captured, and the houses, plundered, and, the women, ravished,—and half of the city, shall go forth, into exile, but, the remainder of the people, shall not be cut off out of the city.
Then will Yahweh go forth, and fight against those nations,—just as he did in the day when he fought, in the day of battle;
Yea his feet, shall stand, in that day, on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives, shall cleave asunder, from the midst thereof, towards the east and towards the west, an exceeding great valley,—and half of the mountain, shall give way, toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
Then shall ye flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains, shall reach, very near, Yea, ye shall flee, just as ye fled from before the earthquake, in the days of Uzziah king of Judah,—Then, shall arrive, Yahweh my God, All thy holy ones, with thee!
And it shall come to pass, in that day,—that there shall be no light, the bright stars, shall be withdrawn;
And it shall be a day by itself, The same, shall be known unto Yahweh—Not day, nor night,—But it shall come to pass, that, at evening time, there shall be light.
And it shall come to pass, in that day, that there shall go forth living waters out of Jerusalem, half of them unto the sea before, and half of them unto the sea behind, in summer and in winter, shall it he.
So will Yahweh become king over all the earth,—In that day, shall there be one Yahweh, and, his Name, be one.
All the land shall turn into a plain, from Geba to Rimmon, south of Jerusalem,—and shall lift herself on high and abide in her own place, from the gate of Benjamin up to the place of the first gate, up to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananeel up to the wine-presses of the king.
So shall men dwell therein, and, utter destruction, shall not be any more,—but Jerusalem, shall abide, in security.
And, this, shall be the plague wherewith Yahweh will plague all the peoples who have made war against Jerusalem,—his flesh, shall be made to rot, while he is standing upon his feet, and, his eyes, shall rot in their sockets, and, his tongue, shall rot in their mouth;
And it shall come to pass, in that day, that there shall be a great confusion from Yahweh among them,—and they will lay hold every one upon the hand of his neighbour, and his hand, will rise up, against the hand of his neighbour;
Moreover also, Judah, will fight with Jerusalem,—and the wealth of all the nations round about, shall be gathered together, gold and silver and apparel, in great abundance.
And, so, shall be the plague of the horse, the mule, the camel, and the ass, and all the beasts which shall be in those camps,—like this plague!
And it shall come to pass, that, as for every one that is left out of all the nations that came against Jerusalem, that they shall come up, from year to year, to bow down to the king, Yahweh of hosts, and to celebrate the festival of booths.
And it shall come to pass that—whoso shall not come up out of the families of the earth unto Jerusalem, to bow down to the king, Yahweh of hosts,—there shall not, on them, be any rain.
And, if the family of Egypt shall not come up, and shall not enter in, upon whom there falleth none, then shall smite them the plague wherewith Yahweh, did plague, the nations, because they came not up to celebrate the festival of booths.
This, shall be the punishment of Egypt,—and the punishment of all the nations, when they come not up to celebrate the festival of booths.
In that day, shall there be [inscribed] upon the bells of the horses, Holy unto Yahweh,—and the caldrons in the house of Yahweh shall be like the dashing bowls before the altar.
And every caldron in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be Holy unto Yahweh of hosts,—So shall all who are offering sacrifice, come in, and take of them, and boil therein,—Neither shall there be a merchant any more in the house of Yahweh of hosts, in that day.