Let all that are under the yoke of slavery count their own masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and [his] doctrine not be blasphemed.
And those that have faithful masters, let them not despise [them], because they are brethren, but rather serve them better, because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. Teach and exhort this.
If anyone teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, [even] the words of our Lord Jesus Christ and to the doctrine which is according to godliness,
he is puffed up, knowing nothing, but is driven mad concerning questions and controversy of words, of which comes envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings,
perverse disputings of men of corrupt understanding, and destitute of the truth, using piety as a source of gain: from such withdraw thyself.
But piety with contentment is great gain.
For we brought nothing into [this] world, [and it is] certain we can carry nothing out.
So that, sustenance and covering, let us be content with this.
For those that desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and [into] many foolish and hurtful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition.
For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, charity, tolerance, meekness.
Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, unto which thou art also called, having made a good profession before many witnesses.
I give thee charge in the sight of God, who gives life to all things and [before] Christ Jesus, who testified before Pontius Pilate a good profession;
that thou keep the commandment without spot, unrebukeable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
who in his time shall show the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;
the only one who has immortality, dwelling in the light which no man can approach unto, whom no man has seen nor can see, to whom [be] honour and power everlasting. Amen.
Charge those that are rich in this world, that they not be highminded, not placing their hope in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy;
[but charge them] to do good, that they be rich in good works, liberal to distribute, willing to communicate,
laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the future, that they may lay hold on eternal life.
O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, turn away from profane voices and vain things and arguments in the vain name of science,
which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace [be] with thee. Amen.: