Now, when Solomon had made an end of praying, Fire, came down out of the heavens, and consumed the ascending-offering and the sacrifices,—and, the glory of Yahweh, filled the house;
so that the priests could not enter into the house of Yahweh,—because the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh;
and, all the sons of Israel, seeing the descending of the fire and the glory of Yahweh upon the house, then knelt they down with their faces toward the ground, upon the pavement, and bowed themselves in prostration, and gave thanks unto Yahweh, For he is good, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And, the king and all the people, were offering sacrifice before Yahweh.
And King Solomon offered a sacrifice—of oxen, twenty-two thousand, and of sheep, a hundred and twenty thousand,—and so the king and all the people, dedicated the house of God;
while, the priests, over their charges, were standing, the Levites also, with the instruments for the songs of Yahweh, which David the king had made, for giving thanks unto Yahweh, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness, when David offered praise by their means,—and, the priests, kept on blowing trumpets over against them, while, all Israel, were standing.
And Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before the house of Yahweh, for he offered there the ascending-sacrifices, and the fat portions of the peace-offerings,—because, the altar of bronze which Solomon had made, was not able to receive the ascending-sacrifice and the meal-offering and the fat portions.
And Solomon made a festival—at that time—for seven days, and all Israel with him, an exceeding great convocation,—from the entering in of Hamath, unto the ravine of Egypt.
And they made, on the eighth day, a closing feast,—because, the dedication of the altar, they had kept seven days and a festival seven days.
And, on the twenty-third of the seventh month, he sent the people away to their own homes,—rejoicing and glad in heart, over the goodness which Yahweh had performed unto David and unto Solomon, and unto Israel his people.
Thus Solomon finished the house of Yahweh, and the house of the king,—and, all that had come in upon the heart of Solomon, to do in the house of Yahweh and in his own house, he prosperously executed.
Then appeared Yahweh unto Solomon by night,—and said to him, I have heard thy prayer, and have made choice of this place for myself, as a house of sacrifice:—
If I shut up the heavens that there be no rain, or if I lay command on the locust, to devour the land,—or if I send pestilence, amongst my people:
if my people upon whom my Name is called shall humble themselves, and pray and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways, then will, I myself, hear out of the heavens, and forgive their sin, and heal their land.
Now, mine eyes, shall be open, and, mine ears, attent,—to the prayer of this place.
Now, therefore, have I chosen and hallowed this house, that my Name may be there, unto times age-abiding,—and mine eyes and my heart shall he there, all the days.
Thou, therefore, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, even to do according to all that I have commanded thee,—and, my statutes and regulations, thou wilt observe,
then will I establish the throne of thy kingdom,—according as I covenanted to David thy father, saying—There shall not fail thee a man, to rule over Israel.
But, if, ye yourselves, shall turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments, which I have set before you,—and shall go and serve other gods, and bow down to them,
then will I root you out from off the soil, which I have given to you, and, this house, which I have hallowed for my Name, will I cast off from before my face,—and will appoint it for a by-word and a mockery, among all the peoples;
and, this house which hath been renowned, all that pass by near it, shall be astonished,—and say, Wherefore hath Yahweh done, thus and thus, to this land, and to this house?
And men shall say, Because they forsook Yahweh the God of their fathers, who brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold of other gods, and bowed down to them, and served them, for this cause, hath he brought upon them, all this calamity.