And I saw, and lo! the Lamb, standing upon the mount Zion,—and, with him, a hundred and forty-four thousand, having his name and his Father’s name written upon their foreheads.
And I heard a sound out of heaven, as the sound of many waters, and as the sound of, loud thunders; and, the sound which I heard, was as of harp-singers harping with their harps,
And they sing as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures and the elders. And, no one, was able to learn the song, save the hundred and forty-four thousand, who had been redeemed from the earth.
These, are they, who with women, were not defiled, for they are, virgin. These, are they who follow the Lamb whithersoever he is going. These, were redeemed from mankind, as a firstfruit unto God and the Lamb;
and, in their mouth, was found no falsehood,—faultless, they are.
And I saw another messenger, flying in mid-heaven, having an age-abiding glad-message to announce unto them who are dwelling upon the earth, even unto every nation and tribe and tongue and people,
saying with a loud voice,—Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judging is come; and do homage unto him that made heaven and the earth and sea and fountains of waters.
And, another, a second [messenger] followed, saying—Fallen! fallen! is Babylon the great, who, of the wine of the wrath of her lewdness, hath caused all the nations to drink.
And, another, a third messenger, followed them, saying with a loud voice—If anyone doeth homage unto the beast and his image, and receiveth a mark upon his forehead, or upon his hand,
he also, shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is prepared, unmixed, in the cup of his anger;—and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone, before holy messengers and before the Lamb;
And, the smoke of their torment, unto ages of ages, ascendeth; And they have no rest day or night, who do homage unto the beast and his image, or if anyone receiveth the mark of his name.
Here, is, the endurance of the saints,—they who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice out of heaven, saying—Write! Happy, the dead who, in the Lord, do die, from henceforth. Yea! (saith the Spirit) that they may rest from their toils, for, their works, do follow with them.
And I saw, and lo! a white cloud, and, upon the cloud, one sitting like unto a son of man, having, upon his head, a crown of gold, and, in his hand, a sharp sickle.
And, another messenger, came forth out of the sanctuary, crying out with a loud voice, unto him that was sitting upon the cloud—Thrust in thy sickle, and reap; because the hour to reap is come, because the harvest of the earth is ripe.
And he that was sitting upon the cloud, thrust in, his sickle upon the earth; and the earth was reaped.
And, another messenger, came forth out of the sanctuary that is in heaven,—he also, having a sharp sickle.
And, another messenger, [came forth] out of the altar, who hath authority over the fire,—and called out with a loud voice, unto him who had the sharp sickle, saying—Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; because the grapes thereof are fully ripe.
And the messenger, thrust in, his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast [it] into the great wine-press of the wrath of God.
And the wine-press was trodden outside the city, and there came forth blood out of the wine-press, even unto the bits of the horses, at a distance of a thousand six hundred furlongs.