A good name is to be chosen aboue great riches, and louing fauour is aboue siluer and aboue golde.
The rich and poore meete together: the Lord is the maker of them all.
A prudent man seeth the plague, and hideth himselfe: but the foolish goe on still, and are punished.
The rewarde of humilitie, and the feare of God is riches, and glory, and life.
Thornes and snares are in the way of the frowarde: but he that regardeth his soule, will depart farre from them.
Teache a childe in the trade of his way, and when he is olde, he shall not depart from it.
The rich ruleth the poore, and the borower is seruant to the man that lendeth.
He that soweth iniquitie, shall reape affliction, and the rodde of his anger shall faile.
He that hath a good eye, he shalbe blessed: for he giueth of his bread vnto the poore.
Cast out the scorner, and strife shall go out: so contention and reproche shall cease.
Hee that loueth purenesse of heart for the grace of his lippes, the King shalbe his friend.
The eyes of the Lord preserue knowledge: but hee ouerthroweth the wordes of the transgressour.
The slouthfull man saith, A lyon is without, I shall be slaine in the streete.
The mouth of strage women is as a deepe pit: he with whom the Lord is angry, shall fall therein.
Foolishnesse is bounde in the heart of a childe: but the rodde of correction shall driue it away from him.
Hee that oppresseth the poore to increase him selfe, and giueth vnto the riche, shall surely come to pouertie.
Incline thine eare, and heare the wordes of the wise, and apply thine heart vnto my knowledge.
For it shalbe pleasant, if thou keepe them in thy bellie, and if they be directed together in thy lippes.
That thy confidence may be in the Lord, I haue shewed thee this day: thou therefore take heede.
Haue not I written vnto thee three times in counsels and knowledge,
That I might shewe thee the assurance of the wordes of trueth to answere the wordes of trueth to them that sende to thee?
Robbe not the poore, because hee is poore, neither oppresse the afflicted in iudgement.
For the Lord will defende their cause, and spoyle the soule of those that spoyle them.
Make no friendship with an angrie man, neither goe with the furious man,
Least thou learne his wayes, and receiue destruction to thy soule.
Be not thou of them that touch the hand, nor among them that are suretie for debts.
If thou hast nothing to paye, why causest thou that he should take thy bed from vnder thee?
Thou shalt not remooue the ancient bounds which thy fathers haue made.
Thou seest that a diligent man in his businesse standeth before Kings, and standeth not before the base sort.