The oracle of the word of Yahweh, on Israel,—Declareth Yahweh—Stretching out the heavens, and founding the earth, and fashioning the spirit of man within him:
Lo! I am making Jerusalem a bowl of reeling to all the peoples, round about,—Moreover also, on Judah, shall it be in the siege against Jerusalem;
And it shall come to pass, in that day, that I will make Jerusalem a lifting-stone, to all the peoples, all who seek to lift her, shall, cut themselves in pieces,—though all the nations of the earth, gather themselves together against her.
In that day, Declareth Yahweh, I will smite every horse with terror, and his rider with madness,—and, over the house of Judah, will I keep opening mine eyes, and, every horse of the peoples, will I smite with blindness.
Then will the chiefs of Judah say in their hearts,—A strength unto me, [would be] the inhabitants of Jerusalem, in Yahweh of hosts, their God.
In that day, will I make the chiefs of Judah like a pan of fire among sticks, and like a torch of fire in a sheaf, so shall they devour, on the right hand and on the left, all the peoples round about; so shall Jerusalem yet, be inhabited, in her own place, as Jerusalem.
But Yahweh will save the tents of Judah first,—lest the honour of the house of David, and the honour of the inhabitant of Jerusalem, should be magnified over Judah.
In that day, will Yahweh, throw a covering, around the inhabitant of Jerusalem, so shall the tottering among them, in that day, become like David,—and the house of David—like God, like the messenger of Yahweh, before them.
And it shall come to pass, in that day,—That I will seek to destroy all the nations, that come against Jerusalem.
But I will pour out upon the house of David and upon the inhabitant of Jerusalem, the spirit of favour, and of supplications, and they will look unto me, whom they have pierced,—and will wail over him, as one waileth over an only son, and will make bitter outcry over him, as one maketh bitter outcry over a firstborn.
In that day, will the wailing, be great, in Jerusalem, as the wailing of Hadadrimmon, in the valley of Megiddon;
So shall the land, wail, family by family, apart,—the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart, the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart;
The family of the house of Levi, apart, and their wives apart, the family of Shimei, apart,—and their wives apart:
All the families that remain, family by family, apart,—and their wives, apart.