And all the tribes of Israel came to David, to Hebron, and spoke, saying, Behold, we are your bone and we are your flesh.
Both yesterday and the day before, when Saul was king over us, you were he who led out and brought in Israel. And Jehovah said to you, You shall shepherd My people Israel, and you shall be for a leader over Israel.
And all the elders of Israel came to the king, to Hebron. And king David cut a covenant with them in Hebron before Jehovah. And they anointed David as king over Israel.
And David was a son of thirty years when he became king; he reigned forty years.
In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months; and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty three years over all Israel and Judah.
And the king and his men went to Jerusalem, to the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land. And one spoke to David, saying, You shall not come in here except the blind and the lame will turn you away, saying, David cannot come in here.
And David captured the stronghold of Zion. It is the city of David.
And David said on that day, Anyone who strikes the Jebusite, let him touch at the water shaft and capture the lame and the blind, the hated of the soul of David. On this account they say, The blind and the lame shall not enter into the house.
And David lived in the stronghold, and called it the city of David. And David built all around from the Millo and inward.
And David went on and became great. And Jehovah the God of hosts was with him.
And Hiram the king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and masons; and they built a house for David.
And David knew that Jehovah had established him for king over Israel, and that He had lifted up his kingdom because of His people Israel.
And David again took concubines and wives out of Jerusalem after he came from Hebron. And again sons and daughters were born to David.
These are the names of those born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,
and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphalet.
And the Philistines heard that they had anointed David for king over Israel. And all the Philistines came up to seek David. And David heard and went down to the stronghold.
And the Philistines came and were spread out in the Valley of the Giants.
And David asked of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines? Will You give them into my hand? And Jehovah said to David, Go up, for I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand.
And David came to Baal-perazim. And David struck them there, and said, Jehovah has broken forth on my enemies before me as the breaking forth of waters. On account of this he called the name of that place The Breaking of Baal.
And they abandoned their idols there; and David and his men took them away.
And the Philistines again came up and were spread out in the Valley of the Giants.
And David asked of Jehovah, and He said, You shall not go up. Turn around to their rear, and come to them in front of the weeping trees.
And it shall be, when you hear the sound of the marching in the tops of the weeping trees, then you shall strike. For then Jehovah shall go out before you to strike the army of the Philistines.
And David did so, as Jehovah commanded him. And he struck the Philistines from Geba until you come to Gezer.