And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and say to him, When you go up with the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light in the front of the lampstand.
And Aaron did so. He went up with its lamps in front of the lampstand, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And this was the work of the lampstand: hammered work of gold to its base, and to its flowers; it was hammered work, according to the pattern which Jehovah showed to Moses, so he made the lampstand.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Take the Levites from among the sons of Israel and cleanse them.
And thus you will do to them to cleanse them: sprinkle water of sin offering on them. And they shall make a razor pass over all their flesh and wash their garments and cleanse themselves.
And they shall take a bull, a son of the herd, and its food offering, flour mixed with oil, and a second bull, a son of the herd, you shall take for a sin offering.
And you shall bring near the Levites before the tabernacle of the congregation. And you shall assemble all the company of the sons of Israel.
And you shall bring the Levites before Jehovah; and the sons of Israel shall lay their hands on the Levites.
And Aaron shall wave the Levites as a wave offering before Jehovah, from the sons of Israel, that they may serve at the service of Jehovah.
And the Levites shall lay their hands on the head of the bullocks. And you shall offer the one for a sin offering, and one a burnt offering to Jehovah, to atone for the Levites.
And you shall cause the Levites to stand before Aaron and before his sons, and shall wave them as a wave offering to Jehovah.
And you shall separate the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel, and the Levites shall become Mine.
And afterward the Levites shall come in to serve the tabernacle of the congregation; and you shall cleanse them, and shall wave them, a wave offering.
For they are wholly given to Me from among the sons of Israel; instead of the one who opens any womb, the first-born of all, from the sons of Israel. I have taken them to Myself.
For every first-born among the sons of Israel among man and among animal, is Mine. I set them apart for Myself in the day I smote every first-born in the land of Egypt.
And I take the Levites instead of every first-born among the sons of Israel.
And I have given the Levites as gifts to Aaron and to his sons from the midst of the sons of Israel to serve in the service of the sons of Israel in the tabernacle of the congregation, and to atone for the sons of Israel, and there shall not be a plague for the sons of Israel through the sons of Israel's drawing near to the sanctuary.
And Moses and Aaron, and all the congregation of the sons of Israel, did to the Levites according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses concerning the Levites; so the sons of Israel did to them.
And the Levites cleansed themselves, and washed their garments. And Aaron waved them as a wave offering before Jehovah; and Aaron atoned for them, to cleanse them.
And afterward the Levites went in to do their service in the tabernacle of the congregation, before Aaron and before his sons; as Jehovah commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
This is that which pertains to the Levites: from twenty five years old and upward he shall go in to do the service and the works of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And from a son of fifty years they shall return from the service of the work, and shall not serve any more.
But he shall serve with his brothers in the tabernacle of the congregation, to keep the charge; only he shall not serve at a service. So you shall do to the Levites concerning their charge.