And it came to pass on one of those days, as he was teaching the people in the temple, and preaching the good news, the chief priests and the scholars with the elders stood near.
And they spoke, saying to him, Tell us, by what authority are thou doing these things? Or who is he who gave thee this authority?
And having answered, he said to them, I also will ask you one word, and ye tell me.
The immersion of John, was it from heaven or from men?
And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we should say, From heaven, he will say, Why did ye not believe him?
But if we say, From men, all the people will stone us, for they are convinced John is a prophet.
And they replied not to know from where.
And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
And he began to speak this parable to the people. A man planted a vineyard, and leased it to farmers, and went abroad for a considerable time.
And at the season he sent a bondman to the farmers, so that they would give him from the fruit of the vineyard. But having beaten him, the farmers sent him away empty.
And he proceeded to send another bondman. And they, having beaten and shamefully treated, sent him also away empty.
And he proceeded to send a third. And they also having wounded this man, cast him out.
And the lord of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. Perhaps they will be made ashamed after seeing this man.
But when the farmers saw him, they deliberated among themselves, saying, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, so that the inheritance may become ours.
And having cast him outside of the vineyard, they killed him. What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do to them?
He will come and destroy these farmers, and will give the vineyard to others. And having heard it, they said, May it not happen!
But having looked upon them, he said, What then is this that is written, The stone that those who build rejected, this became the head of the corner?
Every man who falls on that stone will be broken, but on whomever it may fall, it will grind him to dust.
And the chief priests and the scholars sought to throw hands on him in the same hour. And they were afraid, for they knew that he spoke this parable against them.
And having watched him, they sent forth insidious men pretending themselves to be righteous, so that they might take hold of his word, in order to deliver him up to the rule and to the authority of the governor.
And they questioned him, saying, Teacher, we know that thou speak and teach rightly, and thou do not accept a personage, but teach the way of God in truth,
Is it permitted for us to give tribute to Caesar or not?
But having perceived their craftiness, he said to them, Why do ye try me?
Display to me a denarius. Whose image and inscription has it? And having answered, they said, Caesar's.
And he said to them, Then render the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God.
And they were unable to lay hold of his word before the people. And having marveled at his answer, they were silent.
And some of the Sadducees having approached, those who say there is no resurrection, they questioned him,
saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us, if any brother dies, having a wife, and this man dies childless, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed to his brother.
There were therefore seven brothers. And the first having taken a wife, died childless.
And the second took the woman, and this man died childless.
And the third likewise took her, and likewise also the seven; they left behind no children, and died.
And last of all the woman also died.
In the resurrection therefore whose wife of them does she become? For the seven had her as wife.
And having answered, Jesus said to them, The sons of this age marry, and are given in marriage,
but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage.
For neither can they die any more, for they are like the agents, and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.
But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the Bush when he calls the Lord, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him.
And some of the scholars having answered, they said, Teacher, thou said well.
For they no longer dared to question him anything.
And he said to them, How do they say the Christ is David's son?
Even David himself says in the book of Psalms, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand,
until I will place thine enemies a footstool of thy feet.
David therefore calls him Lord, and how is he his son?
And while all the people were listening, he said to his disciples,
Beware of the scholars, who desire to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces, and chief seats in the synagogues, and places of honor at the feasts,
who devour widows' houses, and in pretence make long prayers. These will receive greater damnation.