LET a man so account of us, as the under servants of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Moreover it is expected of stewards, that a man be found faithful.
But it is my least consideration that I should be judged by you, or by human opinion: yea I decide not respecting myself.
For though I am not conscious to myself of any unfaithfulness, yet am I not thereby justified; but he that judgeth me is the Lord.
Wherefore judge nothing before the time until the Lord come, who also will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will manifest the counsels of men’s hearts; and then shall praise be given to each from God.
But these things, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself, and Apollos for your sake; that in us ye might learn not to be attached, beyond what is written, lest one being for one minister, ye be puffed up with prejudice against another.
For who distinguisheth thee? and what hast thou which thou hast not received? But if thou also hast received it, why dost thou glory, as if thou hadst not received it?
Now ye are full, now ye have grown rich, ye have reigned without us: and I wish indeed that you may reign, that we also might reign together with you.
For I think that God hath exposed us his apostles the last as devoted unto death. For we have been made a spectacle to the world, and to angels, and to men.
We are counted fools for Christ’s sake, but ye are wise in Christ; we are weak, but ye are mighty; ye are honourable persons, but we despised.
For even to this present hour we undergo hunger and thirst and nakedness, and are buffeted about, and have no settled abode;
and work hard, labouring with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer it;
being injuriously spoken of, we entreat; we are made as the ordures of the world, as the sweepings of all things unto this day.
I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved children I admonish you.
For though ye may have ten thousand teachers in Christ, yet not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus through the Gospel I have begotten you.
Now I conjure you, be followers of me.
For this cause have I sent unto you Timothy, who is my son beloved and faithful in Christ, who will remind you of my ways which are in Christ Jesus, as I teach every where in every church.
Now some are puffed up, as though I would not really come to you.
But I will come shortly unto you, if the Lord please, and will know, not the prating of them that are puffed up, but the power.
For the kingdom of God is not in talk, but in power.
What is your wish? That I should come unto you with a rod, or in love, and in the spirit of meekness?