And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, These are the living things which ye may eat among all the beasts that are on the earth.
Whatever parts the hoof, and is cloven footed, and chews the cud, among the beasts, that may ye eat.
Nevertheless these shall ye not eat of those that chew the cud, or of those that part the hoof: the camel, because he chews the cud but does not part the hoof, he is unclean to you.
And the coney, because he chews the cud but does not part the hoof, he is unclean to you.
And the hare, because she chews the cud but does not part the hoof, she is unclean to you.
And the swine, because he parts the hoof, and is cloven footed, but does not chew the cud, he is unclean to you.
Of their flesh ye shall not eat, and their carcasses ye shall not touch, they are unclean to you.
These may ye eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, that may ye eat.
And all that have no fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of all the living creatures that are in the waters, they are an abomination to you,
and they shall be an abomination to you. Ye shall not eat of their flesh, and their carcasses ye shall have in abomination.
Whatever has no fins nor scales in the waters, that is an abomination to you.
And these ye shall have in abomination among the birds, they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the vulture, and the osprey,
and the kite, and the falcon after its kind,
every raven after its kind,
and the ostrich, and the night-hawk, and the sea-gull, and the hawk after its kind,
and the little owl, and the cormorant, and the great owl,
and the horned owl, and the pelican, and the carrion vulture,
and the stork, the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
All winged creeping things that go upon all fours are an abomination to you.
Yet these ye may eat of all winged creeping things that go upon all fours, which have legs above their feet, with which to leap upon the earth,
even these of them ye may eat: the locust after its kind, and the bald locust after its kind, and the cricket after its kind, and the grasshopper after its kind.
But all winged creeping things, which have four feet, are an abomination to you,
and by these ye shall become unclean. Whoever touches the carcass of them shall be unclean until the evening.
And whoever bears any of the carcass of them shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.
Every beast which parts the hoof, and is not cloven footed, nor chews the cud, is unclean to you. Everyone who touches them shall be unclean.
And whatever goes upon its paws, among all beasts that go on all fours, they are unclean to you. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening.
And he who bears the carcass of them shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening; they are unclean to you.
And these are those which are unclean to you among the creeping things that creep upon the earth: the weasel, and the mouse, and the great lizard after its kind,
and the gecko, and the land-crocodile, and the lizard, and the sand-lizard, and the chameleon.
These are those which are unclean to you among all that creep. Whoever touches them, when they are dead, shall be unclean until the evening.
And upon whatever any of them falls when they are dead, it shall be unclean, whether it be any vessel of wood, or raiment, or skin, or sack. Whatever vessel it be, with which any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening, then it shall be clean.
And every earthen vessel, into which any of them falls, whatever is in it shall be unclean, and ye shall break it.
All food therein which may be eaten, that on which water comes, shall be unclean, and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.
And everything upon which any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean, whether oven, or range for pots, it shall be broken in pieces; they are unclean, and shall be unclean to you.
Nevertheless a fountain or a pit in which is a gathering of water shall be clean, but that which touches their carcass shall be unclean.
And if any of their carcass falls upon any sowing seed which is to be sown, it is clean.
But if water is put upon the seed, and any of their carcass falls in it, it is unclean to you.
And if any beast, of which ye may eat, dies, he who touches the carcass of it shall be unclean until the evening.
And he who eats of the carcass of it shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. He also who bears the carcass of it shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.
And every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth is an abomination; it shall not be eaten.
Whatever goes upon the belly, and whatever goes upon all fours, or whatever has many feet, even all creeping things that creep upon the earth, them ye shall not eat, for they are an abomination.
Ye shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creeps, nor shall ye make yourselves unclean with them, that ye should be defiled by it.
For I am Jehovah your God. Sanctify yourselves therefore, and become ye holy, since I am holy. Neither shall ye defile yourselves with any manner of creeping thing that moves upon the earth.
For I am Jehovah who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. Ye shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.
This is the law of the beast, and of the bird, and of every living creature that moves in the waters, and of every creature that creeps upon the earth,
to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean, and between the living thing that may be eaten and the living thing that may not be eaten.