The lovingkindnesses of Yahweh, age-abidingly will I sing, To generation after generation, will I make known thy faithfulness with my mouth.
For I said, To times age-abiding, shall lovingkindness be built up, As for the heavens, thou wilt establish thy faithfulness therein.
I have solemnised a covenant, for my chosen one, I have sworn unto David my servant:
Unto times age-abiding, will I establish thy seed, And will build up, unto generation after generation, thy throne. [Selah.]
So shall the heavens praise thy wondrousness, O Yahweh,—Yea, thy faithfulness, in the convocation of holy ones.
For whom, in the skies, can one compare unto Yahweh? [Or] can one liken unto Yahweh, among the sons of the mighty?
A GOD inspiring awe in the circle of the holy ones, exceedingly, And to be reverenced above all who are round about him.
O Yahweh, God of hosts! Who, like thee, is mighty, O Yah! With thy faithfulness round about thee:
Thou, rulest over the swelling of the sea, When the rolling waves thereof lift themselves, Thou, dost bid them be still:
Thou, hast crushed—as one slain—Rahab, With thy strong arm, hast thou scattered thy foes.
Thine, are the heavens, Yea, thine, the earth, The world and the fulness thereof, Thou, didst found them;
The north and the south, Thou, didst create them,—Tabor and Hermon, with thy Name, shall shout for joy:
Thine is an arm with might, Strong is thy hand, High is thy right hand;
Righteousness and justice, are the establishing of thy throne, Lovingkindness and faithfulness, go before thy face.
How happy are the people who know the joyful sound! O Yahweh! in the light of thy countenance, shall they firmly march along;
In thy Name, shall they exult all the day, And, in thy righteousness, shall they be exalted.
For, the beauty of their strength, thou art, And, in thine acceptance, shall our horns be exalted.
For, to Yahweh, belongeth our Shield, And, to the Holy One of Israel, belongeth our King.
Then spakest thou in vision of thy men of lovingkindness, and saidst—I have laid help upon a mighty one, I have exalted one chosen from among the people;
I have found David my servant, With mine own holy oil, have I anointed him;
With whom my hand shall be firm, Yea, mine arm, shall strengthen him;
No foe shall make exactions on him, Nor shall, a son of perversity, humiliate him;
And I will shatter, from before him, his adversaries, And, them who hate him, will I smite;
And, my faithfulness and my lovingkindness, shall be with him, And, in my Name, exalted shall be his horn;
And I will set, in the sea, his hand, And, in the rivers, his right hand;
He, shall cry out unto me, My Father, thou art, My GOD, and my Rock of Salvation!
Yea, I, will appoint him, firstborn, Most High to the kings of the earth!
Age-abidingly, will I keep for him my lovingkindness, And, my covenant, hath been made steadfast for him;
Therefore will I appoint, to futurity, his seed, And his throne as the days of the heavens.
If his sons forsake my law, And, in my regulations, do not walk;
If, my statutes, they profane, And, my commandments, do not keep:
Then will I punish, with a rod, their transgression; And, with stripes, their iniquity:
But, my lovingkindness, will I not frustrate from them, Neither will I falsify my faithfulness;
I will not violate my covenant, And that which hath proceeded out of my lips, will I not alter:
One thing, have I sworn by my holiness, Verily, to David, will I not lie;
His seed, age-abidingly, shall remain, And, his throne, be like the sun before me;
Like the moon, shall it be established unto times age-abiding, And, a witness, in the skies, hath been made sure. [Selah.]
Yet, thou thyself, hast cast off, and rejected, Thou hast been wroth with thine Anointed One!
Thou hast cast down the covenant of thy Servant, Thou hast profaned, to the earth, his crown;
Thou hast broken down all his defenses, Thou hast laid his fortresses in ruins;
All the passers by the way, have plundered him, He hath become a reproach to his neighbours;
Thou hast raised the right hand of his adversaries, Thou hast gladdened all his enemies;
Yea thou hast turned the edge of his sword, Neither hast thou caused him to stand in the battle;
Thou hast brought to an end his splendour, And, his throne—to the ground, hast thou hurled;
Thou hast shortened the days of his youths,—Thou hast covered him with shame. [Selah.]
How long, O Yahweh, Wilt thou hide thyself utterly? Shall thine indignation, burn like fire?
Remember how short-lived, I, am, Wherefore, in vain, hast thou created all the sons of Adam?
Who is the man that shall live, and not see death? That can deliver his soul from the hand of hades. [Selah.]
Where are thy former lovingkindnesses, O My Lord? Thou didst swear unto David, in thy faithfulness!
Remember, O My Lord, the reproach of thy servants, I have carried in my bosom the insult of the peoples:
In that thy foes have reproached, O Yahweh, In that they have reproached the footsteps of thine Anointed One!
Blessed be Yahweh to times age-abiding, Amen, and Amen!