As dead flies cause the perfumer's ointment to stink and ferment; so a little foolishness is heavier than wisdom and than honor.
The heart of the wise is toward his right, but the fool's heart toward his left.
And also, in the way in which a stupid one walks, his heart fails, and he says to all that he is a fool.
If the spirit of the ruler rises up against you, do not leave your place; for composure quiets great offenses.
There is an evil I have seen under the sun, sins which come from the face of the ruler:
folly is set in many high positions , and many rich men sit in low situations .
I have seen slaves on horses, and rulers walking as slaves on the earth.
He who digs a pit may fall into it; and one breaking a wall, a snake may bite him.
Whoever removes stones may be hurt with them; he who splits trees may be endangered by them.
If the iron is blunt, and he does not whet the mouths, then he must put more strength to it . But wisdom is an advantage giving success.
If the snake will bite without charming, then there is no advantage to a master of tongue.
The words of a wise mouth are grace, but the lips of a stupid one swallow him;
the beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his mouth is evil madness.
Yet the stupid one makes many words; a man knows not what they shall be; and what shall be after him, who can tell him?
The labor of fools wearies him, because he does not know how to go to the city.
Woe to you, O land, when your king is a boy, and your leaders eat in the morning.
Blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobles, and your leaders eat in due time, in strength, and not in drinking.
The framework tumbles through indolence; and through lowering of hands, the house leaks.
Bread is made for laughter, and wine gladdens life; but silver answers all things .
Also, do not curse a king in your thought; and do not curse the rich in your bedrooms; for a bird of the heavens may carry the voice; yea, the lord of wings may tell the matter.