But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession
and defrauded of the price, his wife also being aware of [it], and brought a certain part and laid [it] at the apostles' feet.
But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled thy heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to defraud of the price of the land?
Retaining it, was it not thy own? and after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thy heart? Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.
Then Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and gave up the spirit; and great fear came on all those that heard these things.
And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried [him] out and buried [him].
And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what was done, came in.
Then Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much? And she said, Yes, for so much.
Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried thy husband [are] at the door and shall carry thee out.
Then she fell down straightway at his feet and yielded up the spirit; and the young men came in and found her dead and, carrying [her] forth, buried [her] by her husband.
And great fear came upon all the church and upon as many as heard these things.
And by the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders were wrought in the people. (And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
And of the others, no one dared join themself to them, but the people magnified them.
And those that believed in the Lord increased in number, multitudes both of men and women.)
So much that they brought forth the sick into the streets and laid [them] on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.
There came also a multitude [out] of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks and those who were tormented with unclean spirits, and they were healed every one.
Then the prince of the priests rose up, and all those that were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees) were filled with jealousy
and laid their hands on the apostles and put them in the common prison.
But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors and brought them forth and said,
Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
And when they heard [that], they entered into the temple early in the morning and taught. In the meantime, the prince of the priests came, and those that were with him, and called the council together and all the elders of the sons of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
But when the officers came and found them not in the prison, they returned and told,
saying, We certainly found the prison shut with all security and the keepers standing outside before the doors, but when we had opened, we found no one within.
Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the princes of the priests heard these things, they were perplexed regarding what this would come to.
Then someone came and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.
Then the captain with the officers went and brought them without violence, for they feared being stoned by the people.
And when they had brought them, they set [them] before the council, and the prince of the priests asked them,
saying, Did we not strictly command you that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine and intend to bring this man's blood upon us.
Then Peter and the [other] apostles answered and said, We must persuade God rather than men.
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew, hanging him on a tree.
God has exalted him with his right hand as Prince and Saviour, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
And we are his witnesses of these things, and [so is] also the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those that persuade him.
When they heard [that], they were divided and took counsel to slay them.
Then a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, who had a reputation among all the people, stood up in the council and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space
and said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as concerning these men.
For before these days, rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves; who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered and brought to nought.
After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing and drew away many people after him; he also perished, and all those that consented with him were dispersed.
And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men and let them alone; for if this counsel or this work is of men, it will come to nought,
but if it is of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest ye be found fighting against God.
And they agreed with him; and when they had called the apostles and beaten [them], they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let them go.
And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name.
And daily in the temple and in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach the gospel of Jesus the Christ.: