Then turned we and went up, the way of Bashan; and Og king of Bashan, came out to meet us, he, and all his people, to give battle at Edrei.
And Yahweh said unto me: Do not fear him, for into thy hand, have I delivered him and all his people and his land,—so then thou shalt do unto him, as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites who was dwelling in Heshbon.
Then did Yahweh our God deliver into our hand, Og also, king of Bashan and all his people,—so we smote him until there was not left remaining to him a survivor.
And we captured all his cities, at that time, there was no fortress which we took not from them,—sixty cities all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
All these, were fortified cities each with a high wall, folding gates and a bar,—besides country towns exceeding many.
And we devoted them to destruction, doing unto them as we did unto Sihon king of Heshbon,—devoting to destruction every city of males, the women, and the little ones.
But all the cattle, and the spoil of the cities, made we our prey.
Thus did we at that time take the land out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites (which was over the Jordan),—from the ravine of Arnon as far as Mount Hermon.
Sidonians, call Hermon Sirion,—but, the Amorites, call it Senir.
All the cities of the table-land, and all Gilead, and all Bashan,—unto Salecah, and Edrei,—cities of the kingdom of Og, in Bashan.
For, only Og, king of Bashan was left remaining of the remnant of the giants, lo! his bedstead, was a bedstead of iron, is not, the same, in Rabbath of the sons of Ammon? nine cubits, the length thereof and four cubits, the breadth thereof, by the fore-arm of a man.
And this land, took we in possession at that time,—from Aroer which is by the ravine of Arnon, and half the hill-country of Gilead and the cities thereof, gave I unto the Reubenites and unto the Gadites;
but the remainder of Gilead, and all Bashan the kingdom of Og, gave I unto the half tribe of Manasseh,—all the region of the Argob with all Bashan. The same, is called, A land of giants.
Jair, son of Manasseh, took all the region of Argob, as far as the boundary of the Geshurites, and the Maachathites,—and called them after his own name The Bashan of Havvoth-jair unto this day.
And, unto Machir, gave I Gilead;
And unto the Reubenites and unto the Gadites, gave I—from Gilead even as far as the ravine of Arnon, the middle of the ravine and boundary,—even as far as the Jabbok ravine, the boundary of the sons of Ammon;
the Waste Plain also and the Jordan and boundary,—from Chinnereth, even as far as the sea of the Waste Plain the Salt Sea, under the slopes of Pisgah, on the east.
So I commanded you, at that time saying,—Yahweh your God hath given unto you this land to possess it, armed, shall ye pass over before your brethren the sons of Israel all the sons of valour,
Only, your wives and your little ones and your cattle—I know that ye have much cattle—shall abide in your cities which I have given unto you;
until that Yahweh shall give rest unto your brethren, as well as you, so shall, they too, possess the land which, Yahweh your God, is giving unto them, over the Jordan,—then shall ye return every man unto his possession, which I have given unto you.
Joshua also, commanded I, at that time saying,—Thine are the eyes, that have seen all that Yahweh your God hath done unto these two kings, thus, will Yahweh do unto all the kingdoms whereunto thou, art passing over:
ye shall not fear them,—for, Yahweh your God, he, it is that is fighting for you.
Then sought I Yahweh at that time, for a favour saying:
My Lord Yahweh, thou thyself, hast begun to shew thy servant thy greatness, and thy firm hand,—as to which, what GOD is there, in the heavens or in the earth, that can do according to thy doings, and according to thy mighty deeds?
Let me pass over, I pray thee that I may see the good land that is over the Jordan,—this good mountain, and the Lebanon.
But Yahweh had been provoked with me for your sakes, and hearkened not unto me,—and Yahweh said unto me, Enough for thee! do not add a word unto me further in this matter.
Ascend the top of the Pisgah, and lift up thine eyes—westward, and northward and southward and eastward—and see with thine own eyes,—for thou shalt not pass over this Jordan.
But command thou Joshua and confirm him and embolden him,—for, he, shall pass over before this people, and, he shall cause them to inherit the land which thou shalt see.
So we abode in the valley, over against Beth-peor.