A genealogy of Jesus Christ, a descendant of David and Abraham.
Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac of Jacob, Jacob of Judah and his brothers,
Judah of Perez and Zerah, whose mother was Tamar, Perez of Hezron, Hezron of Ram,
Ram of Amminadab, Amminadab of Nashon, Nashon of Salmon,
Salmon of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab, Boaz of Obed, whose mother was Ruth, Obed of Jesse,
Jesse of David the King. David was the father of Solomon, whose mother was Uriah’s widow,
Solomon of Rehoboam, Rehoboam of Abijah, Abijah of Asa,
Asa of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat of Jehoram, Jehoram of Uzziah,
Uzziah of Jotham, Jotham of Ahaz, Ahaz of Hezekiah,
Hezekiah of Manasseh, Manasseh of Ammon, Ammon of Josiah,
Josiah of Jeconiah and his brothers, at the time of the Exile to Babylon.
After the Exile to Babylon — Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel, Shealtiel of Zerubbabel,
Zerubbabel of Abiud, Abiud of Eliakim, Eliakim of Azor,
Azor of Zadok, Zadok of Achim, Achim of Eliud,
Eliud of Eleazar, Eleazar of Matthan, Matthan of Jacob,
Jacob of Joseph, the husband of Mary, who was the mother of Jesus, who is called ‘Christ’.
So the whole number of generations from Abraham to David is fourteen; from David to the Exile to Babylon fourteen; and from the Exile to Babylon to the Christ fourteen.
The birth of Jesus Christ took place as follows:  His mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, but, before the marriage took place, she found herself to be with child by the power of the Holy Spirit.
Her husband, Joseph, was a religious man and, being unwilling to expose her to contempt, resolved to put an end to their betrothal privately.
He had been dwelling upon this, when an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream.   “Joseph, son of David,” the angel said, “do not be afraid to take Mary for your wife, for her child has been conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit.
She shall give birth to a son; and you shall give him the name Jesus, for it is he who shall save his people from their sins.”
All this happened in fulfilment of these words of the Lord in the Prophet, where he says —
‘Behold! the virgin shall be with child and shall give birth to a son, and they will give him the name Immanuel’ — a word which means ‘God is with us.’
When Joseph awoke from his sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord had directed him.
He made Mary his wife, but did not live with her as her husband until after the birth of her son; and to this son he gave the name Jesus.