As co-workers, however, we also beseech, that, not in vain, the favour of God, ye welcome;
For he saith—In an approved season, have I hearkened unto thee, and, in a day of salvation, have succoured thee;—Lo! now, a well-approved season, Lo! now, a day of salvation:
Giving, no single, occasion of stumbling, in anything, that the ministry be not blamed;
But, in everything, commending ourselves as God’s ministers,—in much endurance, in tribulations, in necessities, in straits,
in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in toilings, in watchings, in fastings,
in sanctity, in knowledge, in long-suffering, in graciousness, in Holy Spirit,
in love unfeigned, in discourse of truth, in power of God; through the weapons of righteousness on the right hand and left,
through glory and dishonour, through bad report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true,
as unknown, and yet well-known, as dying, and lo! we live, as disciplined, and yet not put to death,
as grieving, yet, ever, rejoicing, as destitute, yet making, many, rich, as holding, nothing, and yet firmly holding, all things.
Our mouth, is opened unto you, O Corinthians! our heart, hath become enlarged:
Ye are not straitened in us, but are straitened in your hearts’ affections;
Howbeit, by way of the like recompense—as, unto children, I speak, be enlarged, even, ye.
Be not getting diversely yoked with unbelievers; for what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship hath light with darkness?
And what concord hath Christ with Beliar? Or what part hath a believer with an unbeliever?
And what agreement hath a shrine of God with idols? For, we, are [the] shrine of a God, that liveth:—even as God hath said—will dwell in them, and walk, and will be their God, and, they, shall be my people.
Wherefore come ye forth out of their midst, and be separated,—saith [the] Lord,—and, one impure, do not touch; and, I, will give you welcome,
And will become your Father, and, ye, shall become my sons and daughters, saith [the] Lord Almighty.