And he said to his disciples, It is impossible for the stumbling-blocks not to come, but woe to him through whom they come!
It is better for him if a donkey-powered millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were thrown into the sea, than that he should cause one of these little ones to stumble.
Take heed to yourselves. And if thy brother should sin against thee, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him.
And if he should sin against thee seven times in the day, and seven times in the day turn back, saying, I repent, thou will forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord, Increase faith for us.
And the Lord said, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard plant, ye would say to this sycamine tree, Be thou uprooted and be planted in the sea, and it would have obeyed you.
But which of you having a bondman plowing or feeding livestock, who, when he comes in from the field, will straightaway say, After coming near, sit down?
Will he not rather say to him, Prepare what I may dine, and having gird thyself, serve me until I eat and drink, and after these things thou will eat and drink?
Does he have a favor for that bondman because he did the things that were commanded? I think not.
Thus ye also, when ye did all the things that were commanded you, say, We are unprofitable bondmen, because we have done what we are obligated to do.
And it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem, that he was passing through the middle of Samaria and Galilee.
And as he entered into a certain village, ten leprous men who stood from afar met him.
And they raised a voice, saying, Jesus, Master, be merciful to us.
And when he saw them, he said to them, After departing, display yourselves to the priests. And it came to pass, during their going they were cleansed.
And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back with a great voice glorifying God.
And he fell upon his face beside his feet giving him thanks. And he was a Samaritan.
And having answered, Jesus said, Were not the ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
Were there none found who returned to give glory to God, except this foreigner?
And he said to him, After rising, go. Thy faith has healed thee.
And questioned by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God comes, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God does not come with observation,
nor will they say, Lo, here! or, Lo, there! For behold, the kingdom of God is inside of you.
And he said to the disciples, The days will come when ye will long to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye will not see it.
And they will say to you, Lo, here! Lo, there! Do not depart, nor pursue.
For just as the lightning, its flashing from under the sky to under the sky, illuminates, so will the Son of man be in his day.
But first it is necessary for him to suffer many things and be rejected from this generation.
And just as it happened in the days of Noah, so also it will be in the days of the Son of man.
They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
And likewise as it happened in the days of Lot. They ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built.
But in that day Lot went out from Sodom he rained fire and brimstone from the sky, and destroyed them all.
It will be according to these things in that day the Son of man is revealed.
In that day, he who will be on the housetop, and his vessels in the house, let him not go down to take them up. And let him who is in the field likewise not return for the things behind.
Remember Lot's wife.
Whoever will seek to save his life will lose it, and whoever will lose it will keep it alive.
I say to you, in that night there will be two in one bed. The one man will be taken, and the other man will be left.
Two will be grinding together. The one woman will be taken, and the other woman will be left.
This verse is not in the majority of the Greek manuscripts.
And having answered, they say to him, Where, Lord? And he said to them, Where the body is, there the vultures will be gathered together.