When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, thou shalt consider well, what is before thee;
And shalt put a knife to thy throat, if, of great appetite, thou art:
Do not crave his dainties, for, the same, are deceitful food.
Do not toil to get wealth, of thine own understanding, forbear:
Wilt thou let thine eye fly thereupon, when it is nothing? for it will, surely make, itself wings, Like an eagle, will it wing its way across the heavens.
Do not eat the food of him that hath a begrudging eye, neither crave thou his dainties;
For, just as he hath thought in his own mind, so, he is: Eat and drink! he may say to thee, but, his heart, is not with thee.
As for thy morsel thou hast eaten, thou shalt vomit it, so shalt thou waste thy things so sweet.
In the ears of a dullard, do not speak, for he will despise the good sense of thy words.
Do not move back the ancient boundary, and, into the fields of the fatherless, do not enter;
For, their near of kin, is strong, he, will plead their cause with thee.
Bring, to correction, thy heart, and thine ears, to the sayings of knowledge.
Do not withhold, from a child, correction, When thou smitest him with the rod, he shall not die:
Thou, with the rod, shalt smite him, and, his soul from hades, shalt thou deliver.
My son! if thy heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even mine.
So shall my reins exult, when thy lips speak the things that are right.
Let not thy heart be envious of sinners, only of the reverence of Yahweh, all day long;
For surely there is a future, and, thine expectation, shall not be cut off.
Hear, thou, my son, and be wise, and lead forward, in duty, thy heart.
Do not be among them who tipple with wine,—among them who are gluttons;
For, the tippler and the glutton, shall come to poverty, and, rags, shall Slumber put on!
Hearken to thy father here, who begat thee, and despise not, when she is old, thy mother.
Truth, buy thou, but do not sell, wisdom, and correction, and understanding.
Greatly shall exult, the father of a righteous man, and, he that begetteth a wise son, shall rejoice in him:
Rejoice shall thy father and thy mother, yea she, shall exult, who bare thee.
Oh give, my son, thy mind unto me, and let, thine eyes, observe, my ways;
For, a deep chasm, is the unchaste woman, and, a narrow pit, the female unknown;
Yea, she, as for prey, lieth in wait, and, the treacherous among mankind, she causeth to abound.
Who hath woe? Who hath outcry of pain? Who hath contentions? Who hath complaining? Who hath needless wounds? Who hath dullness of eyes?
They who tarry over wine, they who go in to search for mixed wine.
Do not look on wine when it becometh red, when it giveth in the cup its sparkle, glideth down smoothly.
Its after effect, is that, like a serpent, it biteth, and, like a viper, it doth sting.
Thine eyes, will see strange women, and, thy heart, will speak perverse things:
So shalt thou become, as one lying down in the heart of the sea,—or as one lying down on the top of the mastgear:
They smote me—I felt no pain, They struck me down—I noticed it not,—When shall I wake up? I will go on, I will seek it, again!