And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each of them took his censer, and put fire in it, and laid incense on it, and offered strange fire before Jehovah, which he had not commanded them.
And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and devoured them, and they died before Jehovah.
Then Moses said to Aaron, This is it that Jehovah spoke, saying, I will be sanctified in those who come near me. And I will be glorified before all the people. And Aaron remained silent.
And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Draw near. Carry your brothers from before the sanctuary out of the camp.
So they drew near, and carried them in their tunics out of the camp, as Moses had said.
And Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons, Let not the hair of your heads go loose, neither tear your clothes, that ye not die, and that he not be angry with all the congregation, but let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which Jehovah has kindled.
And ye shall not go out from the door of the tent of meeting, lest ye die, for the anointing oil of Jehovah is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses.
And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, saying,
Drink no wine nor strong drink, thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the tent of meeting, that ye not die-it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations-
and that ye may make a distinction between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean,
and that ye may teach the sons of Israel all the statutes which Jehovah has spoken to them by Moses.
And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, Take the meal offering that remains of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, and eat it without leaven beside the altar, for it is most holy.
And ye shall eat it in a holy place, because it is thy portion, and thy sons' portion, of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire. For so I am commanded.
And ye shall eat the wave-breast and the heave-thigh in a clean place, thou, and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee. For they are given as thy portion, and thy sons' portion, out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the sons of Israel.
They shall bring the heave-thigh and the wave-breast with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave offering before Jehovah, and it shall be thine, and thy sons' with thee, as a portion forever, as Jehovah has commanded.
And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin offering, and, behold, it was burnt. And he was angry with Eleazar and with Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who were left, saying,
Why have ye not eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary, seeing it is most holy, and he has given it to you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before Jehovah?
Behold, the blood of it was not brought into the sanctuary inside. Ye should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I commanded.
And Aaron spoke to Moses, Behold, this day they have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before Jehovah, and there have befallen me such things as these. And if I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been well-pleasing in the sight of Jehovah?
And when Moses heard, it was well-pleasing in his sight.