How true is this saying: ‘To aspire to be to be a presiding officer in the church is to be ambitious for a noble task.’
The presiding officer should be of blameless character; a faithful partner; living a temperate, discreet, and well-ordered life; hospitable, and a skilful teacher,
not addicted to drink or brawling, but of a forbearing and peaceable disposition, and not a lover of money;
they should provide for own household well, and their children should kept under control and be well-behaved.
If someone does not know how to provide for their own household, how can they take charge of the church of God?
The presiding officer should not be a recent convert, or they might become blinded by pride and fall under the same condemnation as the devil.
They should also be well spoken of by outsiders, so that they may not incur censure and so fall into the devil's trap.
So, too, assistant officers should be serious and straightforward, not given to taking much drink or to questionable money-making,
but people who hold the deep truths of the faith and have a clear conscience.
They should be tested first, and only appointed to their office if no objection is raised against them.
It should be the same with the women in this office. They should be serious, not gossips, sober, and trustworthy in all respects.
Assistant officers should be faithful partners who manage their children and their households well.
Those who have filled that post with honour gain for themselves an honourable position, as well as great confidence through the faith that they place in Christ Jesus.
I am writing this to you, though I hope that I will come to see you before long;
but in case I should be delayed, I want you to know what your conduct ought to be in the Household of God, which is the church of the living God — the pillar and stay of the truth.
Yes, and confessedly wonderful are the deep truths of our religion; for —  ‘He was revealed in our nature, Pronounced righteous in spirit, Seen by angels, Proclaimed among the Gentiles, Believed on in the world, Taken up into glory.’