I waited patiently for Jehovah, and he inclined to me, and heard my cry.
He also brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.
And he has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in Jehovah.
Blessed is the man who makes Jehovah his trust, and respects not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.
Many, O Jehovah my God, are the wonderful works which thou have done, and thy thoughts which are toward us. They cannot be set in order to thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered.
Sacrifice and offering thou did not desire, but a body thou have prepared for me. Whole burnt offering and sacrifice for sin thou did not require.
Then I said, Lo, I have come. In the volume of a book it is written of me.
I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart.
I have proclaimed glad tidings of righteousness in the great assembly. Lo, I will not refrain my lips. O Jehovah, thou know.
I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart. I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation. I have not concealed thy loving kindness and thy truth from the great assembly.
Withhold thou not thy tender mercies from me, O Jehovah. Let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me,
for innumerable evils have encompassed me around. My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart has failed me.
Be pleased, O Jehovah, to deliver me. Make haste to help me, O Jehovah.
Let them be put to shame and confounded together who seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt.
Let them be desolate because of their shame who say to me, Aha, aha.
Let all those who seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee. Let such as love thy salvation say continually, Jehovah be magnified.
But I am poor and needy, yet the Lord thinks upon me. Thou are my help and my deliverer. Make no delay, O my God.