Then the scribes and Pharisees who were from Jerusalem came to Jesus, saying,
Why do your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.
But He answered and said to them, Why do you also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?
For God commanded, saying, "Honor your father and mother"; and, "He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him die by death."
But you say, Whoever says to his father or mother, Whatever you would gain from me, It is a gift to God;
and in no way he honors his father or his mother. And you voided the commandment of God by your tradition.
Hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying,
"This people draws near to Me with their mouth, and honors Me with their lips, but their heart is far from Me.
But in vain they worship Me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men."
And He called the crowd and said to them, Hear and understand.
Not that which goes into the mouth defiles a man; but that which comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man.
Then His disciples came and said to Him, Do You know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying?
But He answered and said, Every plant which My heavenly Father has not planted shall be rooted up.
Let them alone. They are blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
Then Peter answered and said to Him, Explain this parable to us.
And Jesus said, Are you also still without understanding?
Do you not yet understand that whatever enters in at the mouth goes into the belly, and is cast out into the waste-bowl?
But the things which come out of the mouth come from the heart, and they defile the man.
For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies;
these are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man.
And going out from there, Jesus withdrew to the parts of Tyre and Sidon.
And behold, a woman of Canaan coming out of these borders cried to Him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David! My daughter is grievously vexed with a demon.
But He did not answer her a word. And His disciples came and begged Him, saying, Send her away, for she cries after us.
But He answered and said, I am not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Then she came and worshiped Him, saying, Lord, help me!
But He answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and to throw it to dogs.
And she said, True, O Lord; but even the little dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' tables.
Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, great is your faith! So be it to you even as you wish. And her daughter was healed from that very hour.
And moving from there Jesus came beside the Sea of Galilee. And He went up into a mountain and sat there.
And great crowds came to Him, having with them the lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others. And they cast them down at Jesus' feet. And He healed them,
so much so that the crowd wondered when they saw the dumb speak, the maimed sound, the lame walk, and the blind see. And they glorified the God of Israel.
Then Jesus called His disciples and said, I have compassion on the crowd because they continue with Me for three days now and have nothing to eat. And I will not send them away fasting, lest they faint in the way.
And His disciples said to Him, From where should we get so many loaves in the wilderness, so as to fill so great a crowd?
And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven, and a few little fish.
And He commanded the crowd to sit on the ground.
And He took the seven loaves and the fish, and gave thanks, and broke, and gave to His disciples. And the disciples gave to the crowd.
And they all ate, and were filled; and they took up seven lunch baskets full of the pieces that was left.
And those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children.
And sending the crowd away, He went into the boat and came into the borders of Magdala.