And on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came to the sepulcher, bringing the spices which they had prepared; and with them came certain others.
And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher;
and they entered in, but found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass, while they were much perplexed at this, behold, two men stood by them in shining raiment.
And while they feared and bowed their faces to the earth, they said to them: Why seek you among the dead for him that lives?
He is not here, but he has risen; remember that he spoke to you while he was yet in Galilee,
saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
And they remembered his words,
and returned from the sepulcher, and told all these things to the eleven and to the rest.
It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James, and the others with them, that told these things to the apostles.
And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not.
But Peter arose and ran to the sepulcher, and stooping down, he saw the linen clothes lying by themselves; and he departed, wondering in himself at that which had come to pass.
And, behold, two of them were going, on the same day, to a village called Emmaus, distant from Jerusalem sixty furlongs.
And they were talking to one another about all these things which had taken place.
And it came to pass, that, while they conversed and reasoned together, Jesus himself drew near, and went on with them.
But their eyes were restrained, so that they did not recognize him.
And he said to them: What matters are these which you are discussing with one another as you walk and are sad?
And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered and said to him: Are you only a stranger in Jerusalem, and have not known the things that have taken place there in these days?
And he said to them: What things? They said to him: The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty in deed and in word before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
But we trusted that it was he that was about to redeem Israel. And besides all this, to-day is the third day since these things were done.
And further, certain women of our company, who were early at the sepulcher, astonished us:
for they found not his body, and came and told that they had seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.
And some of those who were with us went to the sepulcher, and found it even as the women had said, but him they saw not.
And he said to them: O inconsiderate, and slow of heart to believe all things that the prophets have spoken!
Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
And beginning from Moses, and all the prophets, he explained to them, in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself.
And they drew near the village to which they were going; and he made as if he would go further.
And they constrained him, saying: Remain with us, for it is near the evening, and the day has declined. And he went in to remain with them.
And it came to pass, while he reclined at table with them, that he took bread and blessed; and he broke, and gave it to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he disappeared from them.
And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?
And they arose the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven, and those who were with them, assembled,
and saying: The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon.
And they told what had taken place on the way, and how he was made known to them in the breaking of bread.
And while they were speaking of these things, Jesus him self stood in the midst of them, and said to them: Peace be to you.
But they were terrified and frightened, and thought that they saw a spirit.
And he said to them: Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?
See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; handle me and see; for a spirit has not flesh and bones, as you see me have.
And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.
And while they did not believe as yet for joy, and were astonished, he said to them: Have you any thing here to eat?
And they gave him a piece of broiled fish, and of a honeycomb.
And he took it, and did eat before them.
And he said to them: These are the words that I spoke to you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled that are written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me.
Then he opened their mind, that they might understand the scriptures,
and he said to them: Thus it is written, and thus was it necessary that the Christ should suffer, and rise again from the dead the third day,
and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
You are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you. But do you remain in the city of Jerusalem, till you be clothed with power from on high.
And he led them out as far as Bethany; and he lifted up his hands and blessed them.
And it came to pass, that as he blessed them, he was separated from them, and carried up into heaven.
And they worshiped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy;
and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God.