Do you, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus;
and the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses, these do you commit to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.
Do you, therefore, suffer evil, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
Every one that serves as a soldier keeps himself free from the business of this life, that he may please him that has chosen him to be a soldier.
And if any one also contend in the public games, he is not crowned, unless he contend according to the laws.
It is necessary that, the farmer should labor, before he partakes of the fruits.
Consider what I say, for I pray that the Lord may give you understanding in all things.
Remember that Jesus Christ, of the posterity of David, was raised from the dead, according to my gospel;
in which I suffer evil, as an evil-doer, even to bonds: but the word of God is not bound.
For this reason I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory.
Assuredly true is the saying: If indeed we have died with him, we shall also live with him;
if we are patient, we shall also reign with him; if we deny him, he will also deny us;
if we are unfaithful, he remains faithful: he can not deny himself.
Put them in mind of these things, charging them before the Lord that they dispute not about words to no profit, which disputes end in the overthrow of the hearers.
Strive to present yourself to God as approved, a workman that has no cause to be ashamed, rightly setting forth the word of truth.
But shun profane and vain babblings; for they will make further advance to ungodliness,
and their word will eat as a gangrene: of whom are Hymenæus and Philetus,
who, as it respects the truth, have erred, saying that the resurrection has already taken place; and they overthrow the faith of some.
But the foundation of God stands firm, having this inscription: The Lord knows those who are his; and, Let every one that names the name of Christ depart from iniquity.
In a great house, however, there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth, and some for honor, and some for dishonor.
If, therefore, any one will cleanse himself from these strifes about words, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, highly useful to the master, prepared for every good work.
Shun youthful desires, and follow righteousness, faithfulness, love, peace, with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
But avoid foolish and unprofitable questions, because you know that they produce contentions:
and the servant of the Lord must not be contentious, but gentle toward all men, able to teach, patient under evils,
in meekness instructing those who oppose themselves, if, possibly, God may give them repentance in order to the acknowledgment of the truth,
and that they may awake to sobriety out of the snare of the devil, after having been taken captive by him according to his will.