For, this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him,—
To whom even a tenth of all Abraham apportioned, first, indeed, when translated, King of Righteousness, but, after that, King of Salem also, which is King of Peace,—
Without father, without mother, without pedigree, having, neither beginning of days, nor of life an end, but made like unto the Son of God, abideth a priest evermore.
Now consider, how great, this man was, to whom, a tenth, Abraham gave out of the choicest spoils, [Yea Abraham] the Patriarch.
And, they, indeed, from among the sons of Levi who the priesthood receive, have commandment to take tithes of the people, according to the law, that is, of their brethren, although sprung from the loins of Abraham;
But, he who deriveth not his pedigree from among them, hath taken tithes of Abraham. And, the holder of the promises, hath he blessed.
But, apart from all gainsaying, the less, by the greater, is blessed.
And, here, indeed, dying men take tithes, but, there, one of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
And—so to say a word—through Abraham, even Levi who taketh tithes hath paid tithes;
For, even then, was he, in the loins of his father, when, Melchizedek, met him.
If indeed, therefore, there had been, a perfecting through means of the Levitical priesthood,—for, the people, thereon, have had based a code of laws, what further need, according to the rank of Melchizedek, for a different priest to be raised up, and, not according to the rank of Aaron, to be designated?
For, seeing there is to be a change of the priesthood, of necessity, of law too, a change cometh.
For, he as to whom these things are said, with a different tribe, hath taken partnership, from which, no one, hath given attendance at the altar;
For it is, very evident, that out of Judah hath sprung our Lord,—respecting which tribe, concerning priests, nothing did Moses speak,
And, yet more abundantly evident it is—that, according to the likeness of Melchizedek, there is to be raised up, a different priest.
Who, not according to a law of commandment dealing with the flesh, hath arisen, but according to the power of an indissoluble life;
For it is witnessed—Thou, art a priest, age-abidingly, according to the rank of Melchizedek.
For, a setting aside, doth, indeed, take place, of a foregoing commandment, by reason of its own weakness and unprofitableness,—
For, the law, perfected, nothing; but there is the superinducing of a better hope,—through which we draw near unto God.
And, inasmuch as not apart from oath-taking—
For, they, indeed, apart from oath-taking, have been made priests, but, he, with an oath-taking, through him that was saying unto him—The Lord sware, and will not regret,—Thou, art a priest, age-abidingly
By as much as this, hath, Jesus, become surety of a better covenant also.
And, they, indeed, in greater numbers, have been made priests, because, by reason of death, are they hindered from remaining at hand;
But, he, by reason of his remaining age-abidingly, untransmissible, holdeth, the priesthood.
Whence he is able, even to be saving unto the very end, them who approach, through him, unto God; Since he evermore liveth to be interceding in their behalf.
For, such a high-priest as this, for us, was [even] suited: Loving, noble, undefiled, set apart from sinners, and become, higher than the heavens;
Who hath no daily necessity, like the high-priests, beforehand, over his own sins, to be offering sacrifices, after that, over those, of the people,—for, this, he did once for all when, himself, he offered up.
For, the law, constituteth, men, high-priests, having, weakness; but, the word of the oath-taking, which cometh after the law, A Son, age-abidingly, made perfect.