Verily, verily, I say unto you:—He that entereth not, through the door, into the fold of the sheep, but goeth up from another place, that man, is, a thief, and, a robber.
But, he that entereth through the door, is, shepherd, of the sheep:
To him, the porter openeth, and, the sheep, unto his voice, hearken: and, his own sheep, he calleth by name, and leadeth them forth.
As soon as, all his own, he hath put forth, before them, he moveth on, and, the sheep, follow him, because they know his voice;
But, a stranger, will they in nowise follow, but will flee from him, because they know not the voice, of strangers.
This similitude, spake Jesus unto them; but, those men, understood not what the things were which he was speaking unto them.
Jesus, therefore, said, again—Verily, verily, I say unto you:—I, am the door of the sheep:
All, as many as came before me, are thieves, and, robbers: but the sheep hearkened nor unto them.
I, am the door: through me, if anyone enter, he shall be saved, and shall come in and go out, and, pasture, shall find.
The thief, cometh not, save that he may thieve and slay and destroy: I, came, that, life, they might have, and, above measure, might have.
I, am the good shepherd: The good shepherd, his life, layeth down, for the sheep.
The hireling, even because he is no shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, vieweth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth,—and, the wolf, seizeth them and scattereth,—
Because, a hireling, he is, and hath no care for the sheep.
I, am the good shepherd, and know my own, and, my own, know me,—
Just as, the Father, knoweth me, and, I, know, the Father; and, my life, I lay down for the sheep.
And, other sheep, have I, which are not of this fold: those also, I must needs bring, and, unto my voice, will they hearken, and there shall come to be, One flock, One shepherd.
Therefore, doth the Father, love, me, because, I, lay down my life, that, again, I may receive it:—
No one, forced it from me, but, I, lay it down, of myself,—Authority, have I, to lay it down, and, authority, have I, again, to receive it: This commandment, received I, from my Father.
A division, again, took place among the Jews, because of these words.
But many from among them were saying—A demon, he hath, and is raving,—Why, unto him, do ye hearken?
Others, said—These sayings, are not those of one demonized,—Can, a demon, open the eyes of, the blind?
The feast of dedication took place at that time, in Jerusalem: it was, winter,
and Jesus was walking in the temple, in the porch of Solomon.
The Jews, therefore, surrounded him, and were saying unto him—How long, holdest thou, our lives, in suspense? If, thou, art the Christ, tell us, plainly.
Jesus answered them—I told you, and ye believe not: The works which, I, am doing in the name of my Father, the same, bear witness concerning me.
But, ye, believe not, because ye are not of my sheep.
My sheep, unto my voice, hearken,—and, I, know, them, and they follow me,—
And, I, give unto them life age-abiding, and in nowise shall they perish, unto times age-abiding; and no one shall carry them off out of my hand.
What, my Father, hath given me, is, something greater than all, and, no one, can carry off out of the hand of my Father:—
I and the Father, are, one.
The Jews again lifted up stones, that they might stone him.
Jesus answered them—Many works, have I showed you, noble ones, from my Father: For which of those works are ye stoning me?
The Jews answered him—Concerning a noble work, are we not stoning thee; but concerning profane speech,—and because, thou, being, a man, art making thyself, God.
Jesus answered them—Is it not written in your law: I, said, Ye are, gods?
If, those, he called gods, unto whom, the word of God, came—and the Scripture cannot be broken—
Of him whom, the Father, hallowed and sent forth into the world, are, ye, saying—Thou speakest profanely, because I said, Son of God, I am?
If I am not doing the works of my Father, do not believe in me;
But, if I am doing them, even though, in me, ye believe not, in the works, believe,—that ye may get to know and go on to know, that the Father is, in me, and, I, am, in the Father.
They were [therefore] again seeking to take him; and he went forth out of their hand.
And he went away again, beyond the Jordan, unto the place where John was at the first, immersing; and he abode there.
And, many, came unto him, and were saying—John, indeed, did not so much as, one sign; but, all things, whatsoever John said concerning this one, were, true.
And, many, believed on him there.