Happy are they who are upright in their way, Who walk in the law of the LORD!
Happy are they who observe his ordinances, And seek him with their whole heart;
Who also do no iniquity, But walk in his ways!
Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently.
O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!
Then shall I not be put to shame, When I have respect to all thy commandments.
I will praise thee in uprightness of heart, When I shall have learned thy righteous laws.
I will keep thy statutes; Do not utterly forsake me!
How shall a young man keep his way pure? By taking heed to it according to thy word.
With my whole heart have I sought thee; O let me not wander from thy commandments!
Thy word have I hid in my heart, That I might not sin against thee.
Blessed be thou, O LORD! O teach me thy statutes!
With my lips do I declare All the precepts of thy mouth.
In the way of thine ordinances I rejoice As much as in all riches.
I meditate on thy precepts, And have respect unto thy ways.
I delight myself in thy statutes; I do not forget thy word.
Deal kindly with thy servant, that I may live, And have regard to thy word!
Open thou mine eyes, That I may behold wondrous things out of thy law!
I am a stranger in the earth; O hide not thy precepts from me!
My soul breaketh within me, On account of longing for thy judgments at all times.
Thou rebukest the proud, the accursed, Who wander from thy commandments.
Remove from me reproach and contempt, For I have kept thine ordinances!
Princes sit and speak against me, But thy servant meditateth on thy statutes.
Thine ordinances are my delight; Yea, they are my counsellors.
My soul cleaveth to the dust; O revive me, according to thy word!
I have declared my ways, and thou hast heard me; Teach me thy statutes!
Make me to understand the way of thy precepts! So will I meditate upon thy wonders.
My soul weepeth for trouble; O lift me up according to thy promise!
Remove from me the way of falsehood, And graciously grant me thy law!
I have chosen the way of truth, And set thy statutes before me.
I cleave to thine ordinances; O LORD! let me not be put to shame!
I will run in the way of thy commandments, When thou shalt enlarge my heart.
Teach me, O LORD! the way of thy statutes, That I may keep it to the end!
Give me understanding, that I may keep thy law; That I may observe it with my whole heart!
Cause me to tread in the path of thy commandments, For in it I have my delight.
Incline my heart to thine ordinances, And not to the love of gain!
Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity, And quicken me in thy law!
Fulfill to thy servant thy promise, Which thou hast made to him who feareth thee!
Turn away the reproach which I fear; For thy judgments are good.
Behold, I have longed for thy precepts; O quicken thou me in thy righteousness!
Let thy mercies come to me, O LORD! And thy help according to thy promise!
So shall I be able to answer him that reproacheth me; For I trust in thy promise.
O take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth! For I trust in thy judgments.
So shall I keep thy law continually, For ever and ever.
I shall walk in a wide path; For I seek thy precepts.
I will speak of thine ordinances before kings, And will not be ashamed.
I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I love;
I will lift up my hands to thy precepts, which I love; I will meditate on thy statutes.
Remember thy promise to thy servant, Because thou hast caused me to hope!
This is my comfort in my affliction; For thy promise reviveth me.
The proud have had me greatly in derision; Yet have I not swerved from thy law.
I remember thy judgments of old, O LORD! And I comfort myself.
Indignation burneth within me, On account of the wicked who forsake thy law.
Thy statutes have been my song In the house of my pilgrimage.
In the night, O LORD! I think of thy name, And keep thy law!
This have I as my own, That I keep thy precepts.
Thou art my portion, O LORD! I have resolved that I will keep thy precepts.
I have sought thy favor with my whole heart; Be gracious unto me according to thy promise!
I think on my ways, And turn my feet to thy statutes;
I make haste, and delay not, To keep thy commandments.
The snares of the wicked surround me; Yet do I not forget thy law.
At midnight I rise to give thanks to thee On account of thy righteous judgments.
I am the companion of all who fear thee, And who obey thy precepts.
The earth, O LORD! is full of thy goodness; O teach me thy statutes!
Thou dost bless thy servant, O LORD! According to thy promise!
Teach me sound judgment and knowledge! For I have faith in thy commandments.
Before I was afflicted, I went astray; But now I keep thy word.
Thou art good and doest good; O teach me thy statutes!
The proud forge lies against me, But I keep thy precepts with my whole heart.
Their heart is senseless like fat; But I delight in thy law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, That I might learn thy statutes.
The law of thy mouth is better to me Than thousands of gold and silver.
Thy hands have made and fashioned me; Give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments!
They who fear thee shall see me and rejoice, Because I trust in thy word.
I know, O LORD! that thy judgments are right, And that in faithfulness thou hast afflicted me.
O let thy loving-kindness be my comfort, According to thy promise to thy servant!
Let thy tender mercies come to me, that I may live! For thy law is my delight.
May the proud be put to shame, who wrong me without cause! But I will meditate on thy precepts.
Let those who fear thee turn unto me, And they that know thine ordinances!
May my heart be perfect in thy statutes, That I may not be put to shame!
My soul fainteth for thy salvation; In thy promise do I trust.
Mine eyes fail with looking for thy promise; When. say I, wilt thou comfort me?
Yea, I am become like a bottle in the smoke; Yet do I not forget thy statutes.
How many are the days of thy servant? When wilt thou execute judgment upon my persecutors?
The proud have digged pits for me; They who do not regard thy law.
All thy commandments are faithful; They persecute me without cause; help thou me!
They had almost consumed me from the earth; But I forsook not thy precepts.
Quicken me according to thy loving-kindness, That I may keep the law of thy mouth!
Thy word, O LORD! abideth for ever, Being established like the heavens;
Thy faithfulness endureth to all generations. Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.
They continue to this day according to their ordinances; For they are all subject to thee.
Had not thy law been my delight, I should have perished in my affliction.
I will never forget thy precepts; For by them thou revivest me.
I am thine, help me! For I seek thy precepts.
The wicked lie in wait to destroy me; But I will have regard to thine ordinances.
I have seen an end of all perfection; But thy law is exceeding broad.
O how I love thy law! It is my daily meditation.
Thou hast made me wiser than my enemies by thy precepts; For they are ever before me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers; For thine ordinances are my meditation.
I have more wisdom than the ancients, Because I keep thy precepts.
I have restrained my feet from every evil way, That I might keep thy word.
I depart not from thy statutes, For thou teachest me!
How sweet are thy words to my taste; Yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
From thy precepts I learn wisdom; Therefore do I hate every false way.
Thy word is a lamp to my feet, And a light to my path.
I have sworn, and I will perform it, That I will keep thy righteous statutes.
I am exceedingly afflicted; Revive me, O LORD! according to thy word!
Accept, O LORD! the free-will offering of my mouth, And teach me thy statutes!
My life is continually in my hand; Yet do I not forget thy law.
The wicked lay snares for me, Yet do I not go astray from thy precepts.
I have made thine ordinances my possession for ever; For they are the joy of my heart.
I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes, Always,—even to the end.
I hate impious men, And thy law I do love.
Thou art my hiding-place and my shield; In thy word I put my trust!
Depart from me, ye evil-doers! For I will keep the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to thy promise, that I may live; And let me not be ashamed of my hope!
Do thou hold me up, and I shall be safe, And I will have respect to thy statutes continually!
Thou castest off all who depart from thy laws; For their deceit is vain.
Thou throwest away all the wicked of the earth, like dross; Therefore I love thine ordinances.
My flesh trembleth through fear of thee, And I am afraid of thy judgments.
I have done justice and equity; O leave me not to mine oppressors.
Be surety for thy servant for good; Let not the proud oppress me!
Mine eyes fail with looking for thy help, And for thy righteous promise.
Deal with thy servant according to thy mercy, And teach me thy statutes!
I am thy servant; give me understanding, That I may know thine ordinances!
It is time for thee, O LORD! to act; For men have made void thy law.
Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; Yea, above fine gold.
Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; I hate every false way.
Wonderful are thine ordinances; Therefore do I observe them.
The communication of thy precepts giveth light; It giveth understanding to the simple.
I open my mouth and pant: For I long for thy commandments.
Look thou upon me, and be gracious to me, As is just to those who love thy name!
Establish my footsteps in thy word, And let no iniquity have dominion over me!
Redeem me from the oppression of men, So will I keep thy precepts!
Let thy face shine on thy servant, And teach me thy statutes!
Rivers of water run down mine eyes, Because men keep not thy law.
Righteous art thou, O LORD! And just are thy judgments!
Just are the ordinances which thou hast ordained, And altogether righteous.
My zeal consumeth me, Because my enemies forget thy word.
Thy word is very pure, Therefore thy servant loveth it.
Of mean condition am I, and despised; Yet do I not forget thy precepts.
Thy righteousness is everlasting righteousness, And thy law is truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me, But thy laws are my delight.
The justice of thine ordinances is everlasting; Give me understanding, and I shall live!
I cry to thee with my whole heart; Hear me, O LORD! that I may keep thy statutes.
I cry unto thee; save me, And I will observe thine ordinances.
I come before the dawn with my prayer; I trust in thy promise!
My eyes anticipate the night-watches, That I may meditate upon thy promise.
Hear my voice according to thy loving-kindness; O LORD! revive me according to thy mercy!
Near are they whose aim is mischief; They are far from thy law;
Yet thou art near, O LORD! And all thy commandments are truth!
Long have I known concerning thine ordinances, That thou hast founded them for ever.
Look upon my affliction, and deliver me! For I do not forget thy law.
Maintain my cause, and redeem me; Revive me according to thy promise!
Salvation is far from the wicked, Because they seek not thy statutes.
Great is thy compassion, O LORD! Revive thou me according to thine equity!
Many are my persecutors and my enemies, Yet do I not depart from thine ordinances.
I behold the transgressors, and am grieved Because they regard not thy word.
Behold, how I love thy precepts! O LORD! revive me according to thy loving-kindness!
The whole of thy word is truth, And all thy righteous judgments endure for ever.
Princes have persecuted me without cause; But my heart standeth in awe of thy word.
I rejoice in thy word, As one that hath found great spoil.
I hate and abhor lying, And thy law do I love.
Seven times a day do I praise thee On account of thy righteous judgments.
Great peace have they who love thy law, And no evil shall befall them.
O LORD! I wait for thy salvation, And keep thy commandments!
My soul observeth thine ordinances, And loveth them exceedingly.
I keep thy precepts and thine ordinances; For all my ways are before thee.
Let my prayer come near before thee, O LORD! According to thy promise, give me understanding!
Let my supplication come before thee; O deliver me according to thy promise!
My lips shall pour forth praise; For thou teachest me thy statutes.
My tongue shall sing of thy word; For all thy commandments are right.
Let thy hand be my help; For I have chosen thy precepts!
I long for thy salvation, O LORD! And thy law is my delight!
Let me live, and I will praise thee; Let thy judgments help me!
I wander like a lost sheep; seek thy servant, For I do not forget thy commandments!