And forthwith in the morning, the chief priests, with the elders and scribes, and the whole Sanhedrin, having held a consultation, and having bound Jesus, led him away, and delivered him to Pilate.
And Pilate asked him: Are you the King of the Jews? And he answering, said: You say it.
And the chief priests accused him of many things.
Pilate again asked him, saying: Do you make no answer? See, how many things they testify against you.
But Jesus gave no further answer; so that Pilate was astonished.
Now it was his custom to release to them, at the feast, one prisoner, whomever they desired.
And there was one called Barabbas, lying bound with his fellow-insurgents, who had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the multitude cried out, and began to ask him to do as he had always done for them.
But Pilate answered them, saying: Do you wish me to release to you the King of the Jews?
For he knew that, through envy, the chief priests had delivered him up.
But the chief priests instigated the multitude, that he should rather release Barabbas to them.
And Pilate answered and said again to them: What, then, do you wish me to do with him whom you call the King of the Jews?
They again cried out: Crucify him.
But Pilate said to them: Why, what evil has he done? But they cried vehemently: Crucify him.
And Pilate, willing to gratify the multitude, released to them Barabbas; and delivered Jesus, after he had scourged him, to be crucified.
And the soldiers led him away within the court, which is the governor’s house, and called together the whole band.
And they clothed him in purple; and having plaited a crown of thorn branches, they put it on him,
and began to salute him: Hail, King of the Jews!
And they struck him on the head with a reed, and spit upon him, and bowing their knees, did him homage.
And when they had derided him, they took off the purple from him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him.
And they compelled one Simon, a Cyrenian, (the father of Alexander and Rufus,) who was passing by, coming in from the country, to bear his cross.
And they brought him to the place Golgotha, which is, when translated, the place of a skull.
And they gave him wine mingled with myrrh, to drink: but he did not receive it.
And when they had crucified him, they divided his clothes among themselves, casting lots for them, what each one should take.
And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
And the superscription containing his accusation was written above him: THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right hand, and the other on his left.
And the scripture was fulfilled, which says: And he was numbered with transgressors.
And those who passed by reviled him, shaking their heads, and saying: Aha! you that destroy the temple, and build it in three days,
save yourself, and come down from the cross.
Likewise the chief priests, with the scribes, speaking in derision one to another, said: He saved others; himself he can not save.
Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe. Those also who were crucified with him, reproached him.
And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land, till the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying: Eloi, Eloi, lamma sabachthani? which is, when translated, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
And some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said: Behold, he calls for Elijah.
And one ran, and filled a sponge with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying: Wait; let us see if Elijah is coming to take him down.
But Jesus, having cried with a loud voice, gave up his spirit.
And the vail of the temple was rent in two, from the top to the bottom.
And when the centurion that was standing opposite him, saw that he thus cried out, and gave up his spirit, he said: Truly, this man was the Son of God.
And there were, at a distance, women also, looking on; among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome;
who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and ministered to him; and many other women, who had come up with him to Jerusalem.
And when the evening had come, because it was the preparation, which is the eve of the sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathea, an honorable counselor, who was himself looking for the kingdom of God, came, and went in boldly to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus.
But Pilate was astonished that he was already dead; and having called the centurion to him, he inquired of him whether he had been any while dead.
And having learned the fact from the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a sepulcher that had been hewed out of a rock: and he rolled a stone to the door of the sepulcher.
And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.