Am not free? Am I not an apostle? Jesus our Lord, have I not seen? Are not, ye, my work, in the Lord?
If, unto others, I am not an apostle, certainly at least, unto you, I am; for, the seal of my apostleship, ye, are in the Lord.
My defence, unto them who are examining me, is this:
Have we not a right to eat and drink?
Have we not a right to take round, a sister wife,—as even the rest of the apostles, and the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?
Or have, only I and Barnabas, not a right to forbear working?
Who serveth as a soldier, at his own charges, at any time? Who planteth a vineyard,—and, the fruit thereof, doth not eat? [Or] who shepherdeth a flock,—and, of the milk of the flock, doth not eat?
Is it, after the manner of men, that these things I am saying? Or doth not, even the law, the same things, say?
For, in the law of Moses, it is written—Thou shalt not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the corn:—Is it, for the oxen, God is caring?
Or, for our sakes altogether, is he saying it? For our sakes, it was written; because, he that ploweth, ought, to plow, in hope,—and, he that thresheth, [to thresh] in hope of partaking.
If, we, unto you, the things of the Spirit have sown, is it a great matter, if, we, of you, the things of the flesh shall reap?
If, others, of this right, over you, are partaking, [should] not rather, we? nevertheless, we used not this right; but, all [such] things, do we conceal,—lest we should cause any hindrance unto the glad message of the Christ.
Know ye not that, they who labour in the holy rites, do eat the provisions out of the holy place? They who at the altar wait, do, with the altar, share?
Thus, also, hath the Lord, appointed—that, they who the glad message tell, should, of the glad-message, live.
I, however, have not used any of these things; and have not written these things, in order that, so it should be done, in my case; for it were, good for me, rather to die than——my boast, shall, no man, make void!
For, if I be telling the glad-message, it is, with me, no matter of boasting; for, necessity, upon me, lieth,—for it is, Woe to me, if I should not be telling the glad-message;
For, if, by choice, this thing I am doing, I have, a reward; but, if not by choice, with a stewardship, have I been entrusted!
What, then, is my reward? that, in telling the glad-message, free of cost, I should put the glad-message,—to the end I should not use to the full my right in the glad-message.
For, though free from all, unto all, myself, I enslaved,—that, the larger number, I might win:
Therefore became I, to the Jews, as, a Jew,—that, Jews, I might win; to them who were under law, as, under law, not being, myself, under law,—that, them who were under law, I might win;
To them who were without law, as, without law,—not being without law to God, but lawfully subject to Christ,—that I might win them who were without law.
I became, unto the weak, weak,—that, the weak, I might win;—to all men, have I become all things, that, by all means, some, I might save.
But, all things, am I doing, for the sake of the glad-message, that a joint-partaker thereof, I may become.
Know ye not that, they who, in a racecourse, run, all, indeed, run,—but, one, receiveth the prize? So, be running, that ye may lay hold.
But, every man who striveth in the games, in all things, useth self-control;—they, indeed, then, that a corruptible crown, they may receive; but, we, an incorruptible!
I, therefore, so, am running, as, not uncertainly, so, am boxing, as not thrashing air;
But am beating my body under, and leading it captive, lest, by any means,—unto others, having proclaimed, [the contest], I myself, should be rejected.