And there appeared a great sign in the heavens, a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon was under her feet, and a crown of twelve stars on her head,
and having a babe in womb, she cries, being in travail, having been distressed to bear.
And another sign was seen in the heavens. And behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on his heads!
And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and cast them onto the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman being about to bear, so that when she bears he might devour her child.
And she bore a son, a male, who is going to rule all nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up to God and to His throne.
And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she had a place prepared by God, so that they might nourish her there a thousand, two hundred and sixty days.
And there was war in Heaven. Michael and his angels warring against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels warred,
but did not prevail. Nor was place found for them in Heaven any more.
And the great dragon was cast out, the old serpent called Devil, and Satan, who deceives the whole world. He was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
And I heard a great voice saying in Heaven, Now has come the salvation and power and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of His Christ. For the accuser of our brothers is cast down, who accused them before our God day and night.
And they overcame him because of the blood of the Lamb, and because of the word of their testimony. And they did not love their soul to the death.
Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and those tabernacling in them. Woe to the inhabitants of the earth and in the sea! For the Devil came down to you, having great wrath, knowing that he has but a little time.
And when the dragon saw that he was cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who bore the man child.
And two wings of a great eagle were given to the woman, so that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the serpent's face.
And the serpent cast out of his mouth water like a flood after the woman, so that he might cause her to be carried away by the river.
And the earth helped the woman. And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
And the dragon was enraged over the woman, and went to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.