AND after these things I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, to hold back the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, neither on the sea, nor on any tree.
And I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God; and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom power was given for them to hurt the earth and the sea,
saying, Hurt not the earth, nor the sea, nor the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.
And I heard the number of those who were sealed; one hundred and forty and four thousand were sealed out of every tribe of the children of Israel.
Of the tribe of Judah were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Nephtalim were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasseh were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Zebulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand.
After these things I looked, and beheld a great multitude, which no man could number, out of every nation, and tribe, and people, and tongue, standing before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, and palm branches in their hands
and crying with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God that sitteth on the throne, and to the Lamb.
And all the angels stood in a circle about the throne, and the presbyters and the four living beings, and fell on their faces before the throne, and worshipped God,
saying, Amen: blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might be to our God for ever and ever. Amen.
And one of the presbyters addressed me, saying, Who are these persons who are clothed in white robes? and from whence came they?
And I said to him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are persons who are come out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made their robes white in the blood of the Lamb.
Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.
They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun scorch them, nor any burning heat.
Because the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will feed them, as a shepherd, and lead them unto living fountains of waters; and God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes.