In those days, the multitude being very great, and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to him and said to them:
I have compassion on the multitude, because they have continued with me now three days, and have nothing to eat.
And if I send them home fasting, they will faint on the way; for some of them have come from afar.
And his disciples answered him: Whence will any one be able to satisfy these men with bread, here in the wilderness?
And he asked them: How many loaves have you? And they said: Seven.
And he commanded the multitude to recline on the ground. And he took the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to set before them: and they set them before the multitude.
And they had a few small fishes; and he blessed, and commanded that they also be set before them.
And they ate, and were satisfied; and they took up what remained of the broken pieces, seven baskets.
And those who had eaten were about four thousand; and he sent them away.
And he immediately entered the ship with his disciples, and went into the regions of Dalmanutha.
And the Pharisees came out, and began to put questions to him, asking of him a sign from heaven, that they might tempt him.
And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and said: Why does this generation seek for a sign? Verily I say to you, No sign will be given to this generation.
And he left them, and entered the ship again, and departed to the opposite side.
And they had forgotten to take bread; and they had but one loaf with them in the ship.
And he charged them, saying: Take heed, and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod.
And they reasoned with one another, saying: It is because we have no bread.
And Jesus perceived it, and said to them: Why do you reason, because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive, nor understand? Is your heart still hardened?
Having eyes, do you not see? and having ears, do you not hear? and do you not remember?
When I broke the five loaves among the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? They said to him: Twelve.
When I broke the seven among the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? They replied: Seven.
And he said to them: How is it that you do not understand?
And he came to Bethsaida; and they brought to him a blind man, and besought him to touch him.
And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the village. And he spit on his eyes, and laid his hands on him, and asked him if he saw any thing.
And he looked up and said: I see men, like trees, walking.
Then he again laid his hands on his eyes, and made him look up. And he was restored, and saw all things clearly.
And he sent him away to his house, and said: Neither go into the village, nor tell it to any one in the village.
And Jesus and his disciples went out into the villages of Cæsarea Philippi. And on the road, he asked his disciples, saying to them: Who do men say that I am?
They answered: John the Immerser; and others, Elijah; and others, one of the prophets.
And he said to them: But who say you that I am? Peter answered and said to him: Thou art the Christ.
And he charged them to tell no one concerning him.
And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be put to death, and after three days rise again.
And he spoke this saying plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
But he turned about, and, looking on his disciples, rebuked Peter, saying: Get behind me, adversary: for you are not thinking of the things of God, but of the things of men.
And he called to him the multitude with his disciples, and said to them: Whoever determines to follow after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever will save his life, shall lose it; but whoever will lose his life for my sake and the gospel’s, shall save it.
For what will it profit a man, if he gain the whole world, and lose his own life?
Or, what will a man give as a ransom for his life?
For whoever will be ashamed of me, and my words, in this sinful and adulterous generation, of him the Son of man also will be ashamed, when he comes in the glory of his Father, with the holy angels.