Fret not thyself because of evildoers, nor be thou envious against those who work unrighteousness.
For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.
Trust in Jehovah, and do good. Dwell in the land, and feed on his faithfulness.
Delight thyself also in Jehovah, and he will give thee the desires of thy heart.
Commit thy way to Jehovah. Trust also in him, and he will bring it to pass.
And he will make thy righteousness to go forth as the light, and thy justice as the noon-day.
Rest in Jehovah, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked devices to pass.
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath. Fret not thyself, it tends only to evil-doing.
For evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for Jehovah, they shall inherit the land.
For yet a little while, and the wicked man shall not be. Yea, thou shall diligently consider his place, and he shall not be.
But the meek shall inherit the land, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
The wicked man plots against the righteous man, and gnashes upon him with his teeth.
The Lord will laugh at him, for he sees that his day is coming.
The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, to kill such as are upright in the way.
Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
Better is a little that the righteous man has than the abundance of many wicked men.
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but Jehovah upholds the righteous.
Jehovah knows the days of the perfect, and their inheritance shall be forever.
They shall not be put to shame in the time of evil, and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of Jehovah is as the fat of lambs: they shall disintegrate; they shall disintegrate away into smoke.
The wicked man borrows, and pays not again, but the righteous man deals graciously, and gives.
For such as are blessed by him shall inherit the land, and those who are cursed by him shall be cut off.
A man's goings are established by Jehovah, and he delights in his way.
Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for Jehovah upholds him with his hand.
I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen a righteous man forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.
All the day long he deals graciously, and lends, and his seed is blessed.
Depart from evil, and do good, and dwell for evermore.
For Jehovah loves justice, and forsakes not his sanctified. They are preserved forever, but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell in it forever.
The mouth of a righteous man talks of wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice.
The law of his God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide.
A wicked man watches a righteous man, and seeks to kill him.
Jehovah will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
Wait for Jehovah, and keep his way, and he will exalt thee to inherit the land. When sinners are cut off, thou shall see it.
I have seen a wicked man in great power, and spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil.
But I passed by, and, lo, he was not. Yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.
Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright, for there is a happy end to the man of peace.
As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together. The end of the wicked shall be cut off.
But the salvation of the righteous is of Jehovah. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble,
and Jehovah helps them, and rescues them. He rescues them from sinners, and saves them, because they have taken refuge in him.