At this my heart trembleth, And leapeth out of its place.
Hear, O hear, the thunder of his voice, And the noise which goeth forth from his mouth!
He directeth it under the whole heaven, And his lightning to the ends of the earth.
After it the thunder roareth; He thundereth with his voice of majesty, And restraineth it not, when his voice is heard.
God thundereth with his voice marvellously; Great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend.
For he saith to the snow, "Be thou on the earth!" To the shower also, even the showers of his might.
He sealeth up the hand of every man, That all men whom he hath made may acknowledge him.
Then the beasts go into dens, And abide in their caverns.
Out of the south cometh the whirlwind, And cold out of the north.
By the breath of God ice is formed, And the broad waters become narrow,
Yea, with moisture he burdeneth the clouds; He spreadeth abroad his lightning-clouds.
They move about by his direction, To execute all his commands throughout the world;
Whether he cause them to come for punishment, Or for the land, or for mercy.
Give ear to this, O Job! Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God!
Dost thou know when God gave commandment to them, And caused the lightning of his cloud to flash?
Dost thou understand the balancing of the clouds, The wondrous works of Him that is perfect in knowledge?
How thy garments become warm, When he maketh the earth still by the south wind?
Canst thou like him spread out the sky, Which is firm like a molten mirror?
Teach us what we shall say to him! For we cannot set in order our words by reason of darkness.
Shall it be told him that I would speak? Shall a man speak, that he may be consumed?
For now men do not look upon the light, When it is bright in the skies, When the wind hath passed over them, and made them clear.
From the north cometh gold; But with God is terrible majesty!
The Almighty, we cannot find him out; Great is he in power and justice, Abundant in righteousness; he doth not oppress.
Therefore let men fear him! Upon none of the wise in heart will he look.