After this there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches.
In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had.
And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years.
When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he says unto him, Will you be made whole?
The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steps down before me.
Jesus says unto him, Rise, take up your bed, and walk.
And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath.
The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is not lawful for you to carry your bed.
He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up your bed, and walk.
Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto you, Take up your bed, and walk?
And he that was healed know not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place.
Afterward Jesus finds him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, you are made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto you.
The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole.
And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day.
But Jesus answered them, My Father works until now, and I work.
Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God.
Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father do: for what things whatsoever he does, these also does the Son likewise.
For the Father loves the Son, and shows him all things that himself does: and he will show him greater works than these, that all of you may marvel.
For as the Father raises up the dead, and replenishes life to them; even so the Son gives life to whom he will.
For the Father judges no man, but has committed all judgment unto the Son:
That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honors not the Son honors not the Father which has sent him.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that hears my word, (o. logos) and believes on him that sent me, has everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live.
For as the Father has life in himself; so has he given to the Son to have life in himself;
And has given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.
Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,
And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.
I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which has sent me.
If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.
There is another that bears witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesses of me is true.
All of you sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth.
But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say, that all of you might be saved.
He was a burning and a shining light: and all of you were willing for a season to rejoice in his light.
But I have greater witness than that of John: for the works which the Father has given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father has sent me.
And the Father himself, which has sent me, has borne witness of me. All of you have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape.
And all of you have not his word (o. logos) abiding in you: for whom he has sent, him all of you believe not.
Search the scriptures; for in them all of you think all of you have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me.
And all of you will not come to me, that all of you might have life.
I receive not honour from men.
But I know you, that all of you have not the love (o. agape) of God in you.
I am come in my Father's name, and all of you receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him all of you will receive.
How can all of you believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that comes from God only?
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuses you, even Moses, in whom all of you trust.
For had all of you believed Moses, all of you would have believed me; for he wrote of me.
But if all of you believe not his writings, how shall all of you believe my words? (o. rhema)