He who separateth himself seeketh his own desire; Against all sound discretion he rusheth on.
The fool hath no delight in understanding, But rather in revealing his own mind.
When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt; And with baseness, shame.
The words of a man’s mouth are deep waters, And the wellspring of wisdom is an overflowing brook.
It is not good to be partial to the wicked, So as to overthrow the righteous in judgment.
The lips of a fool enter into strife, And his mouth calleth for blows.
A fool’s mouth is his destruction, And his lips are a snare for his life.
The words of a talebearer are like sweet morsels; For they go down to the innermost parts of the body.
Moreover, he that is slothful in his work Is brother to him that is a great waster.
The name of the LORD is a strong tower; The righteous runneth to it, and is safe.
The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, And as a high wall, in his own conceit.
Before destruction the heart of a man is haughty, And before honor is humility.
He who answereth a matter before he hath heard it, It is folly and shame to him.
The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; But a wounded spirit who can bear?
The heart of the intelligent will acquire knowledge, And the ear of the wise will seek knowledge.
A gift maketh room for a man, And bringeth him into the presence of the great.
He that first pleadeth his cause appeareth just; But his opponent cometh, and searcheth him through.
The lot causeth contentions to cease, And parteth asunder the mighty.
A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city; Yea, their contentions are like the bars of a castle.
With the fruit of a man’s mouth shall his stomach be filled; He shall be filled with the produce of his lips.
Death and life are in the power of the tongue; They that love it shall eat its fruit.
He that findeth a wife findeth a blessing, And obtaineth favor from the LORD.
The poor useth entreaties; But the rich answereth roughly.
A man of many friends will show himself false; Yet there is a friend who sticketh closer than a brother.