The crowd being very great in those days, and not having anything they may eat, Jesus, calling His disciples near, said to them,
I have pity on the crowd because now three days they remain with Me, and they do not have what they may eat.
And if I send them away fasting to their house, they will faint in the way, for some of them come from afar.
And His disciples answered Him, From where will anyone here be able to satisfy these with loaves in the wilderness?
And He asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven.
And He ordered the crowd to recline on the ground. And taking the seven loaves, giving thanks, He broke and gave to His disciples, that they might serve. And they served the crowd.
And they had a few fish. And blessing, He said for these also to be served.
And they ate, and were satisfied. And they took up over and above seven lunch baskets of fragments.
And those eating were about four thousand. And He sent them away.
And at once entering into the boat with His disciples, He came into the region of Dalmanutha.
And the Pharisees went out and began to argue with Him, seeking from Him a sign from Heaven, tempting Him.
And groaning in His spirit, He said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say to you, As if this generation will be given a sign!
And leaving them, again entering into the boat, He went away to the other side.
And the disciples forgot to take loaves. And they did not have any with them, except one loaf in the boat.
And He charged them, saying, See! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod.
And they reasoned with one another, saying, Because we have no loaves.
And knowing, Jesus said to them, Why do you reason because you have no loaves? Do you not yet perceive nor realize? Have you still hardened your heart?
"Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear?" And do you not remember? Jer. 5:21
When I broke the five loaves to the five thousand, how many hand baskets full of fragments did you take up? They said to Him, Twelve.
And when the seven to the four thousand, how many lunch baskets did you take up with the fillings of fragments? And they said, Seven.
And He said to them, How do you not understand?
And He came to Bethsaida. And they carried a blind one to Him, and begged Him that He would touch him.
And laying hold of the blind one's hand, He led him forth outside the village. And spitting into his eyes, laying His hands on him, He asked him if he saw anything.
And looking, he said, I see men as trees walking.
Then He placed His hands on his eyes again, and made him look up. And he was restored and saw all clearly.
And He sent him to his house, saying, You may not go into the village, nor may tell anyone in the village.
And Jesus and His disciples went out to the villages of Caesarea of Philip. And in the way, He questioned His disciples, saying to them, Whom do men say Me to be?
And they answered, John the Baptist, and others say Elijah; but others, one of the prophets.
And He said to them, And you, whom do you say Me to be? And answering, Peter said to Him, You are the Christ.
And He warned them that they may tell no one about Him.
And He began to teach them that it is necessary for the Son of man to suffer many things and to be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and to be killed, and after three days to rise again.
And He spoke the word openly. And taking Him aside, Peter began to rebuke Him.
But turning around and seeing His disciples, He rebuked Peter, saying, Go behind Me, Satan, because you do not mind the things of God, but the things of men.
And calling near the crowd with His disciples, He said to them, Whoever desires to come after Me, let him deny himself and take his cross, and let him follow Me.
For whoever desires to save his life, he shall lose it. But whoever shall lose his life for My sake and the gospel, that one shall save it.
For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world, yet damage his soul?
Or what shall a man give as an exchange for his soul?
For whoever may be ashamed of Me and My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of man will also be ashamed of him when He comes in the glory of His Father, along with the holy angels.