And the Canaanite, the king of Arad who dwelt in the South, heard that Israel had entered by the way of Atharim,—so he made war with Israel, and took some of them captive.
Then Israel vowed vow unto Yahweh, and said,—If thou wilt, surely deliver up, this people into my hand, then will I utterly destroy their cities.
And Yahweh hearkened unto the voice of Israel and delivered up the Canaanite into his hand, so he utterly destroyed them, and their cities, and called the name of the place Hormah [that is, "Utter Destruction"].
Then brake they up from Mount Hor, by way of the Red Sea, to go round the land of Edom,—and the soul of the people became impatient because of the way,
So then the people spake against God and against Moses, Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt, to die in the desert? for there is neither bread nor water, and our soul, doth loathe this contemptible bread!
And Yahweh sent among the people the poisonous serpents, and they bit the people,—and much people out of Israel died.
Then came the people of Israel unto Moses and said—We have sinned in that we spake against Yahweh and against thee, Pray thou unto Yahweh, that he may take from us the serpent. So Moses prayed for the people.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses—Make thee a like serpent, and put it upon standard,—and it shall come to pass, that, any one who is bitten, as soon as he seeth it, shall live.
So Moses made a serpent of bronze, and put it upon the standard,—and it came to pass—that if the serpent had bitten any man, as soon as he directed his look unto the serpent of bronze, he lived.
And the sons of Israel brake up,—and encamped in Oboth.
And they brake up from Oboth,—and encamped in Ije-Abarim, in the desert which is over against Moab, towards the rising of the sun.
From thence, brake they up,—and encamped in the ravine of Zered.
From thence, brake they up, and encamped on the other side of Arnon which is in the desert, that cometh forth out of the boundary of the Amorites,—for, Arnon, is the boundary of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
For this cause is it said, in the Book of the Wars of Yahweh,— …Waheb with a hurricane, And the ravines of Arnon;
And the bottom of the ravines, that extendeth toward the dwelling of Ar,—And adjoineth to the boundary of Moab,
And from thence, towards Beer,—the same, is the well whereof Yahweh said unto Moses, Gather together the people, that I may give them water.
Then, sang Israel this song,—Spring thou up, O well! Respond ye thereunto;
A well!—princes digged it, Nobles of the people, delved it, With a sceptre, With their staves. And, from the desert, to Mattanah;
and from Mattanah, to Nahaliel; and from Nahaliel, to Bamoth;
and, from Bamoth of the valley, which is in the field-country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah,—which overlooketh Jeshimon.
Then sent Israel messengers, unto Sihon king of the Amorites, saying:
Let me pass through thy land we will not turn aside into field or into vineyard, nor will we drink the water of a well,—by the king’s road, will we go, until we get through thy boundary.
And Sihon suffered not Israel to pass through his boundary, but Sihon gathered together all his people, and came forth to meet Israel, towards the desert, and entered Jahaz, and fought with Israel.
And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword,—and took possession of his land, from Arnon unto Jabbok, unto the sons of Ammon, for strong, was the boundary of the sons of Ammon.
So Israel took all these cities,—and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon and in all her villages;
for, as for Heshbon, the city of Sihon king of the Amorites, it was, he, having fought with the former king of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, unto Arnon.
For this cause, say the poets—Enter ye Heshbon,—Built and prepared be the city of Sihon;
For, a fire, hath come forth out of Heshbon, A flame, out of the stronghold of Sihon; It hath consumed Ar of Moab, The lords of the high places of Arnon.
Woe to thee, Moab, Thou art lost, O people of Chemosh,—He hath given up his sons as fugitives, And his daughters into captivity, Unto the king of the Amorites, Sihon.
Then we shot them—Heshbon is destroyed, as far as Dibon,—Then laid we waste as far as Nophah, A fire reacheth unto Medeba.
So then Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.
And Moses sent to spy out Jazer, and they captured the villages thereof,—and dispossessed the Amorites that were there.
Then turned they, and went up by the way of Bashan,—and Og, king of Bashan, came forth to meet them—he and all his people, to give battle at Edrei.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses—Do not fear him, for into thy hand, have I delivered him and all his people, and his land,—Therefore shalt thou do unto him, as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, who was dwelling in Heshbon.
So then they smote him and his sons and all his people, until there was not left him a remnant,—and took possession of his land.