However, Job, I pray thee, hear my speech, and hearken to all my words.
Behold now, I have opened my mouth. My tongue has spoken in my mouth.
My words shall utter the uprightness of my heart, and that which my lips know they shall speak sincerely.
The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
If thou can, answer thou me. Set thy words in order before me. Stand forth.
Behold, I am toward God even as thou are. I also am formed out of the clay.
Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, nor shall my pressure be heavy upon thee.
Surely thou have spoken in my hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words, saying,
I am clean, without transgression. I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me.
Thou say, Behold, he finds occasions against me. He counts me for his enemy.
He puts my feet in the stocks. He marks all my paths.
Behold, I will answer thee. In this thou are not just, for God is greater than man.
Why do thou strive against him because he does not give account of any of his matters?
For God speaks once, yea twice, though man does not regard it.
In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls upon men, in slumberings upon the bed.
Then he opens the ears of men, and seals their instruction
that he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride from man.
He keeps back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword.
He also is chastened with pain upon his bed, and with continual strife in his bones,
so that his life abhors bread, and his soul dainty food.
His flesh is consumed away that it cannot be seen. And his bones that were not seen stick out.
Yea, his soul draws near to the pit, and his life to the destroyers.
If there be with him an agent, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to show to man what is right for him,
then God is gracious to him, and says, Deliver him from going down to the pit; I have found a ransom.
His flesh shall be fresher than a child's. He returns to the days of his youth.
He prays to God, and he is favorable to him, so that he sees his face with joy, and he restores to man his righteousness.
He sings before men, and says, I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it did not profit me.
He has redeemed my soul from going into the pit, and my life shall behold the light.
Lo, all these things God works twice, yea thrice, with a man,
to bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be enlightened with the light of the living.
Mark well, O Job, hearken to me. Keep silent, and I will speak.
If thou have anything to say, answer me. Speak, for I desire to justify thee.
If not, hearken thou to me. Keep silent, and I will teach thee.