For the Leader. A Psalm of David, a Song.
Let G-d arise, let His enemies be scattered; and let them that hate Him flee before Him.
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away; as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of G-d.
But let the righteous be glad, let them exult before G-d; yea, let them rejoice with gladness.
Sing unto G-d, sing praises to His name; extol Him that rideth upon the skies, whose name is HaShem; and exult ye before Him.
A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is G-d in His holy habitation.
G-d maketh the solitary to dwell in a house; He bringeth out the prisoners into prosperity; the rebellious dwell but in a parched land.
O G-d, when Thou wentest forth before Thy people, when Thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah
The earth trembled, the heavens also dropped at the presence of G-d; even yon Sinai trembled at the presence of G-d, the G-d of Israel.
A bounteous rain didst Thou pour down, O G-d; when Thine inheritance was weary, Thou didst confirm it.
Thy flock settled therein; Thou didst prepare in Thy goodness for the poor, O G-d.
The L-rd giveth the word; the women that proclaim the tidings are a great host.
Kings of armies flee, they flee; and she that tarrieth at home divideth the spoil.
When ye lie among the sheepfolds, the wings of the dove are covered with silver, and her pinions with the shimmer of gold.
When the Almighty scattereth kings therein, it snoweth in Zalmon.
A mountain of G-d is the mountain of Bashan; a mountain of peaks is the mountain of Bashan.
Why look ye askance, ye mountains of peaks, at the mountain which G-d hath desired for His abode? Yea, HaShem will dwell therein for ever.
The chariots of G-d are myriads, even thousands upon thousands; the L-rd is among them, as in Sinai, in holiness.
Thou hast ascended on high, Thou hast led captivity captive; Thou hast received gifts among men, yea, among the rebellious also, that HaShem G-d might dwell there.
Blessed be the L-rd, day by day He beareth our burden, even the G-d who is our salvation. Selah
G-d is unto us a G-d of deliverances; and unto GOD the L-rd belong the issues of death.
Surely G-d will smite through the head of His enemies, the hairy scalp of him that goeth about in his guiltiness.
The L-rd said: 'I will bring back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea;
That thy foot may wade through blood, that the tongue of thy dogs may have its portion from thine enemies.'
They see Thy goings, O G-d, even the goings of my G-d, my King, in holiness.
The singers go before, the minstrels follow after, in the midst of damsels playing upon timbrels.
'Bless ye G-d in full assemblies, even the L-rd, ye that are from the fountain of Israel.'
There is Benjamin, the youngest, ruling them, the princes of Judah their council, the princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.
Thy G-d hath commanded thy strength; be strong, O G-d, Thou that hast wrought for us
Out of Thy temple at Jerusalem, whither kings shall bring presents unto Thee.
Rebuke the wild beast of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples, every one submitting himself with pieces of silver; He hath scattered the peoples that delight in war!
Nobles shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall hasten to stretch out her hands unto G-d.
Sing unto G-d, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the L-rd; Selah
To Him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which are of old; lo, He uttereth His voice, a mighty voice.
Ascribe ye strength unto G-d; His majesty is over Israel, and His strength is in the skies.
Awful is G-d out of thy holy places; the G-d of Israel, He giveth strength and power unto the people; blessed be G-d.