Then, sang Moses, and the sons of Israel, this song unto Yahweh, and they spake, saying,—I will sing to Yahweh, for he is exalted, exalted,—The horse and his rider, hath he cast into the sea.
My might and melody, is Yah, And he became mine, by salvation,—This, is my GOD, and I will glorify him, The God of my father and I will set him on high.
Yahweh is a warlike one,—Yahweh, is his name.
The chariots of Pharaoh and his train, hath he cast into the sea,—Yea, the choice of his warriors, were sunk in the Sedgy Sea.
Roaring deeps, covered them,—They went down in the raging depths like a stone.
Thy right hand, O Yahweh is splendid in power,—Thy right hand, O Yahweh dasheth in pieces a foe;
And in the greatness of thine exaltation, dost thou tear down thine opposers,—Thou dost send forth thy wrath, it consumeth them as straw;
And with the blast of thy nostrils, heaped up are the waters, Upreared like a mound, are the flowing waves,—Roaring deeps are congealed in the heart of the sea.
Said the foe—I will pursue—overtake divide spoil,—Take her fill of them—shall my soul, I will bare my sword, root them out—shall my hand.
Thou didst blow with thy wind they were covered by the sea,—They rolled like lead, into the waters so wide.
Who is, like unto thee, among the mighty O Yahweh? Who is, like unto thee, Majestic in holiness,—To be revered in praises, Doing a marvellous thing?
Thou didst stretch forth thy right hand, earth swallowed them up.
Thou hast led forth in thy lovingkindness, the people which thou hast redeemed,—Thou hast guided them in thy might into the home of thy holiness.
Peoples have heard they tremble,—A pang, hath seized the dwellers of Philistia:
Then, were amazed the chiefs of Edom, The mighty ones of Moab, there seizeth them, a trembling,—Melted away, have all the dwellers of Canaan:
There falleth upon them a terror and dread, With the greatness of thine arm, are they struck dumb as a stone,—Till thy people pass over O Yahweh, Till the people pass over, which thou hast made thine own:—
Thou bringest them in and plantest them, In the mountain of thine inheritance, Thy dwelling-place to abide in which thou hast made, O Yahweh,—A hallowed place O My Lord which thy hands have established.
Yahweh, shall reign unto times age-abiding and beyond.
For the horses of Pharaoh, with his chariots and his horsemen, entered into the sea, Then did Yahweh bring back upon them the waters of the sea,—But the sons of Israel, had gone their way on the dry ground through the midst of the sea.
Then took Miriam the prophetess, sister of Aaron the timbrel in her hand,—and all the women came forth after her with timbrels and dances,
And Miriam responded to the men, Sing to Yahweh for he is exalted—exalted, The horse and his rider, hath he cast into the sea.
And Moses caused Israel to break up from the Red Sea, and they went out into the desert of Shur,—and journeyed three days in the desert and found no water;
and, when they came in towards Marah they could not drink the waters of Marah, for they were bitter,—for this cause, was the name thereof called Marah.
So the people murmured against Moses—saying, What are we to drink?
And he made outcry unto Yahweh, and Yahweh pointed out a tree, and he cast it into the waters, and the waters became sweet,—There, he appointed him a statute and regulation And, there, he put him to the proof.
And he said: If thou, wilt indeed hearken, to the voice of Yahweh thy God, And the thing that is right in his eyes, thou wilt do, And so give ear to his commandments, And keep all his statutes, None of the sicknesses which I laid on the Egyptians, will I lay upon thee, For, I, am Yahweh, thy physician.
Then came they in to Elim, and there, were twelve fountains of water and seventy palm-trees,—so they encamped there, by the waters.