But concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not wish you to be ignorant.
You know that you were Gentiles, carried away to those dumb idols, as you might be led.
For this reason, I make known to you, that no one, speaking by the Spirit of God, calls Jesus accursed: and no one can say that Jesus is Lord, but by the Holy Spirit.
Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit;
and there are diversities of ministries, but the same Lord;
and there are diversities of operations, but the same God, who makes them all effectual in all.
But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one, for the good of all.
For to one is given, by the Spirit, the word of wisdom; to another, the word of knowledge, by the same Spirit;
to another, faith, by the same Spirit; to another, gifts of healing, by the same Spirit;
to another, the working of mighty deeds; to another, prophecy; to another, the discerning of spirits; to another, different kinds of tongues; to another, the interpretation of tongues.
But all these, the one and the same Spirit makes effectual, distributing to each, respectively, as he wills.
For as the body is one, and has many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ.
For by one Spirit we all were immersed into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and we all have been made to drink of one Spirit.
For the body is not one member, but many.
If the foot shall say: Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, is it, for this reason, no part of the body?
And if the ear shall say: Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body, is it, for this reason, no part of the body?
If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
But now God has placed the members, each of them, in the body, as it has pleased him.
And if they were all one member, where were the body?
But now there are many members, but one body.
The eye can not say to the hand: I have no need of you; or again, the head to the feet: I have no need of you.
But much more are those members of the body necessary, which seem to be more feeble.
And those members of the body, which, we think, are less honorable, around these we place the more abundant honor; and our uncomely members have the more abundant comeliness:
for our comely members have no need. But God has so arranged the body, giving more abundant honor to that part which is deficient,
that there may be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same anxious care, one for another;
and if one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
Now, you are the body of Christ, and, as individuals, you are members.
And God has placed some in the church, first, apostles; secondly, prophets; thirdly, teachers; then mighty deeds; then gifts of healing; helps, governments, kinds of tongues.
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of mighty deeds?
Have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
But seek earnestly the best gifts; and yet I show you a more excellent way.