Now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, having seen that his hour has come that he would depart out of this world to his Father, having loved his own in the world, he loved them to the end.
And supper having occurred, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, that he would betray him,
Jesus, having seen that the Father has given all the things to him, into his hands, and that he came from God, and goes to God,
rises from supper, and set his garments aside, and after taking a towel, he girded himself.
Then he pours water into the wash-basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded.
So he comes to Simon Peter, and that man says to him, Lord, do thou wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said to him, What I do thou do not know now, but thou will understand after these things.
Peter says to him, Thou may, no, not wash my feet into the age. Jesus answered him, If I may not wash thee, thou have no part with me.
Simon Peter says to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and head.
Jesus says to him, He who is bathed has no need to wash the feet either, but is entirely clean. And ye are clean, but not all.
For he knew the man betraying him. Because of this he said, Ye are not all clean.
When therefore he washed their feet, and took his garments, having sat down again, he said to them, Do ye understand what I have done to you?
Ye call me, Teacher, and, Lord. And ye say well, for I am.
If I then, the Lord and the teacher, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash each other's feet.
For I have given you an example, so that just as I have done to you ye also should do.
Truly, truly, I say to you, a bondman is not greater than his lord, nor is an apostle greater than he who sent him.
If ye have seen these things, blessed are ye if ye do them.
I speak not about you all. I have seen whom I chose, but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He who eats bread with me lifted up his heel against me.
From henceforth I tell you before it happens, so that when it happens, ye may believe that I am.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who receives any man whomever I may send, receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
Having said these things, Jesus was troubled in the spirit, and testified and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, that one of you will betray me.
Therefore the disciples looked at each other, being uncertain about whom he speaks.
And one of his disciples whom Jesus loved was sitting at Jesus' bosom.
Simon Peter therefore gestured to this man to inquire whoever he may be about whom he speaks.
And that man, having leaned thus toward Jesus' breast, says to him, Lord, who is he?
Jesus replies, He is that man to whom I, having dipped the morsel, will give. And when he dipped the morsel, he gives it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
And after the morsel, then Satan entered into that man. Jesus therefore says to him, What thou do, do more quickly.
But no man who was sitting knew why he said this to him.
For some thought, since Judas had the purse, that Jesus said to him, Buy what things we have need of for the feast, or that he should give something to the poor.
Therefore having received the morsel, straightaway that man went out, and it was night.
When he went out, Jesus says, Now the Son of man is glorified, and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorify in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him straightaway.
Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, Where I go, ye cannot come, I also now say to you.
A new commandment I give to you, that ye should love each other, just as I loved you, so that ye also should love each other.
By this all men will know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love among each other.
Simon Peter says to him, Lord, where do thou go? Jesus answered him, Where I go, thou cannot follow me now, but thou will follow me afterwards.
Peter said to him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thee.
Jesus answered him, Will thou lay down thy life for me? Truly, truly, I say to thee, A cock will, no, not sound, until thou will deny me thrice.