And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for, the first heaven and the first earth, have passed away, and, the sea, is no more.
And, the holy city, new Jerusalem, saw I coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a loud voice out of the throne, saying—Lo! the tent of God, is with men, and he will tabernacle with them, and, they, shall be, his peoples, and, he, shall be, God with them;
And he will wipe away every tear out of their eyes,—and, death, shall be no more, and grief and outcry and pain shall be no more: the first things, have passed away.
And he that was sitting upon the throne said— Lo! I make all things, new. And he saith—Write! because, these words, are, faithful and true.
And he said unto me—Accomplished! I, am the A, and the Z, the Beginning and the End: I, unto him that is thirsting, will give of the fountain of the water of life, freely:
He that overcometh, shall inherit these things,—And I will be, to him, a God, and, he, shall be, to me, a son;
But, as for the timid, and disbelieving, and abominable, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all the false, their part, is in the lake that burneth with fire and brimstone,—which is the second death.
And there came one of the seven messengers which had the seven bowls, that were full of the seven last plagues, and spake with me, saying— Hither! I will point out to thee the bride, the wife of the Lamb.
And he carried me away, in spirit, unto a mountain great and high, and pointed out to me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God;
having the glory of God,—her lustre, like unto a stone most precious, as a jasper stone, shining as crystal;
having a wall great and high, having twelve gates, and, at the gates, twelve messengers, and names inscribed, which are [the names] of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel,—
on the east, three gates, and, on the north, three gates, and, on the south, three gates, and, on the west, three gates;
and, the wall of the city, having twelve foundations, and, upon them, twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And, he that was talking with me, had, for a measure, a reed of gold, that he might measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.
And, the city, four-square, lieth, and, the length thereof, is as great as the breadth. And he measured the city, with the reed,—twelve thousand furlongs: the length, and the breadth, and the height thereof, are, equal.
And he measured the wall thereof,—a hundred and forty-four cubits: the measure of a man, which is [the measure] of a messenger.
And, the structure of the wall thereof, was jasper, and, the city, was pure gold, like unto pure glass.
The foundations of the wall of the city, with every precious stone were adorned: the first foundation, was jasper, the second, sapphire, the third, chalcedony, the fourth, emerald,
the fifth, sardonyx, the sixth, sardius, the seventh, chrysolite, the eighth, beryl, the ninth, topaz, the tenth, chrysoprase, the eleventh, hyacinth, the twelfth, amethyst;
and, the twelve gates, were twelve pearls,—each one of the gates, severally, was of one pearl; and, the broadway of the city, was pure gold, as transparent glass.
And, sanctuary, saw I none therein; for, the Lord, God, the Almighty, is the sanctuary thereof, and the Lamb.
And, the city, hath no need of the sun, nor of the moon, that they should shine therein; for, the glory of God, illumined it, and, the lamp thereof, was the Lamb.
And the nations, shall walk, through her light; and, the kings of the earth, do bring their glory into it,
and, the gates thereof, shall in nowise be shut, by day,—night, in fact, shall not be there,—
and they shall bring the glory and the honour of the nations into it.
And in nowise shall there enter into it, anything common, or he that doeth abomination and falsehood,—but only they who are written in the Lamb’s book of life.