And God spoke all these words, saying,
I am Jehovah thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Thou shall have no other gods before me.
Thou shall not make to thee a graven image, nor any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Thou shall not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, Jehovah thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the sons, upon the third and upon the fourth generation of those who hate me,
and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
Thou shall not take the name of Jehovah thy God in vain, for Jehovah will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Six days thou shall labor, and do all thy work,
but the seventh day is a sabbath to Jehovah thy God. Thou shall not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates,
for in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore Jehovah blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.
Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long in the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee.
Thou shall not murder.
Thou shall not commit adultery.
Thou shall not steal.
Thou shall not bear false witness against thy neighbor.
Thou shall not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shall not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is thy neighbor's.
And all the people perceived the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the voice of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. And when the people saw it, they trembled, and stood afar off.
And they said to Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear, but let not God speak with us, lest we die.
And Moses said to the people, Fear not, for God has come to prove you, and that his fear may be before you, that ye not sin.
And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Thus thou shall say to the sons of Israel, Ye yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.
Ye shall not make other gods with me; gods of silver, or gods of gold, ye shall not make to you.
An altar of earth thou shall make to me, and shall sacrifice on it thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen. In every place where I record my name I will come to thee and I will bless thee.
And if thou make to me an altar of stone, thou shall not build it of hewn stones, for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou have polluted it.
Neither shall thou go up by steps to my altar, that thy nakedness be not uncovered on it.