On that day, Jesus, going out of the house, was sitting near the sea:
and there were gathered unto him, large multitudes, so that, he, into a boat, entered, and was sitting, and, all the multitude, on the beach was standing.
And he spake unto them many things, in parables, saying: Lo! the sower went forth to sow,—
and, as he sowed, some, indeed, fell by the pathway, and, the birds, came, and devoured it;
And, some, fell on the rocky places, where it had not much earth,—and, straightway, it sprang up, because if had no depth of earth;
and, the sun arising, it was scorched, and, because it had no root, it withered away;
And, some, fell upon the thorns, and the thorns came up, and choked it;
But, some, fell upon the good ground, and did yield fruit,—this, indeed a hundred fold, and, that, sixty, and, the other, thirty.
He that hath ears, let him hear.
And the disciples, coming near, said to him, Wherefore, in parables, art thou speaking to them?
And, he, answering, said, Because, unto you, hath it been given, to get to know the sacred secrets of the kingdom of the heavens,—whereas, unto them, hath it not been given.
For, whosoever hath, it shall be given, to him, and he shall be made to abound,—but, whoever hath not, even what he hath, shall be taken from him?
For this reason, in parables, unto them, do I speak,—because, seeing, they see not, and, hearing, they hear not,—neither do they understand.
And, again is being fulfilled in them, the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith,—They shall, surely hear, and yet will not understand, and, surely see, and yet not perceive;
For the heart of this people hath become dense, and, with their ears, heavily have they heard, and, their eyes, have they closed,—lest, once they should see with their eyes, and, with their ears, should hear, and, with their hearts, should understand, and return; when I would certainly heal them.
But happy are, your, eyes, that they see, and your ears, that they hear;
For, verily, I say unto you—Many prophets and righteous men, have coveted to see what ye see, and have not seen, and to hear what ye hear, and have not heard.
Hear, ye, then, the parable of him that sowed:—
When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, the wicked one cometh, and catcheth up that which hath been sown in his heart,—this, is he, by the pathway, sown.
And, he on the rocky places sown, the same, is he that, heareth the word, and, straightway, with joy, receiveth it;
yet hath he no root in himself, but is, only for a season,—and, there arising, tribulation or persecution because of the word, straightway, he findeth cause of stumbling.
And, he among the thorns sown, the same, is he that, heareth the word,—and, the anxiety of the age and the deceit of riches, choke up the word, and, unfruitful, it becometh.
But, he on the good ground sown, the same, is he who doth hear and understand the word, who, indeed, beareth fruit and produceth,—this, a hundred, and, that, sixty, and, the other, thirty.
Another parable, put he before them, saying—The kingdom of the heavens hath become like a man sowing good seed in his field;
and, while men were sleeping, his enemy came, and sowed over darnel, in among the wheat,—and away he went.
And, when the blade shot up, and brought forth, fruit, then, appeared, the darnel also.
And the servants of the householder, coming near, said to him,—Sir! was it not, good seed, thou didst sow in thy field? Whence then hath it, darnel?
And he said unto them—An enemy, hath, done this. And they say, unto him—Wilt thou, then, that we go and collect it?
And, he, saith—Nay! lest, at any time, while collecting the darnel, ye uproot, along with it, the wheat:
Suffer both to grow together until the harvest, and at, harvest time, I will say unto the reapers,—Collect ye first, the darnel, and bind it into bundles, with a view to the burning it up; but, the wheat, be gathering it into my barn.
Another parable, put he before them, saying—The kingdom of the heavens is like unto, a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field;
which, indeed, is, less, than all seeds, but, when grown, is greater than garden-plants, and becometh a tree,—so that the birds of heaven come, and lodge among its branches.
Another parable, [spake he unto them]:—The kingdom of the heavens is like, unto leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until, the whole, was leavened.
All these things, spake Jesus in parables, unto the multitudes, and, without a parable, was he speaking, nothing, unto them:
that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken through the prophet, saying—I will open, in parables, my mouth, I will bring up things hidden from the foundation!
Then, dismissing the multitudes, he went into the house, and his disciples came near to him, saying—Make quite plain to us the parable of the darnel of the field.
And, he, answering, said—He that soweth the good seed, is the Son of Man;
And, the field, is the world, and, the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom,—and, the darnel seeds, are the sons of the evil one;
And, the enemy that sowed them, is the adversary, and, the harvest, is, the conclusion of an age, and, the reapers, are, messengers.
Just, therefore, as collected is the darnel, and, with fire is burned, so, will it be in the conclusion of the age:—
The Son of Man will send forth his messengers, and they will collect, out of his kingdom, all the causes of stumbling, and the doers of lawlessness,
and will cast them into the furnace of fire: there, will be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Then, the righteous, will shine forth as the sun, in the kingdom of their Father. He that hath ears, let him hear!
The kingdom of the heavens is like unto, a treasure hid in the field, which a man, finding, hid,—and, by reason of his joy, withdraweth and selleth whatsoever he hath, and buyeth that field.
Again, the kingdom of the heavens is, like, unto, a merchant, seeking beautiful pearls,—
and, finding one very precious pearl, departing, he at once sold all things, whatsoever he had, and bought it.
Again, the kingdom of the heavens is like unto, a large drag-net, cast into the sea and gathering of every kind,—
which, when it was filled, they dragged up on the beach, and, sitting down, collected the good into vessels, but, the worthless, forth they cast.
So, will it be in the conclusion of the age: The messengers will come forth, and separate the wicked from among the righteous;
and will cast them into the furnace of fire: there, will be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Have ye understood all these things? They say unto him, Yea!
And, he, said unto them—Wherefore, every scribe, discipled unto the kingdom of the heavens, is like unto a householder, who putteth forth out of his treasure, things new and old.
And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these parables, he removed from thence;
and, coming into his own city, began teaching them in their synagogue, so that with astonishment were they being struck, and were saying—Whence, hath, this one, this wisdom, and the mighty works?
Is not, this one, the carpenter’s, son? Is not, his mother, called Mary, and are not his brethren—James and Joseph, and Simon, and Judas?
and, his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence, then hath, this one, all these things?
And they began to find cause of stumbling in him. But, Jesus, said unto them—A prophet is not without honour, save in his city, and in his house.
And he did not, there, many mighty works, because of their unbelief.