And Yahweh spake unto Moses in the desert of Sinai, in the second year by their coming forth out of the land of Egypt in the first month, saying:
Let the sons of Israel therefore, keep the passover in its appointed season:
on the fourteenth day of this month between the two evenings, shall ye keep it, in its appointed season,—according to all the statute thereof and according to all the regulations thereof, shall ye keep it.
Then spake Moses unto the sons of Israel that they should keep the passover.
So they kept the passover in the first [month], on the fourteenth day of the month between the two evenings, in the desert of Sinai,—according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so, did the sons of Israel.
But so it was that there were, certain men who had become unclean by a dead person, and could not keep the passover on that day,—therefore came they near before Moses and before Aaron on that day.
Then said those men unto him, We, are unclean by a dead person,—wherefore should we become of less esteem for want of offering the oblation of Yahweh in its appointed season, in the midst of the sons of Israel?
And Moses said unto them,—Stay, and let me hear, what Yahweh shall command concerning you!
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, saying,—Though, any man, be unclean by a dead person or be on a journey afar off, whether in the case of yourselves or of your generations, yet shall he keep a passover unto Yahweh.
In the second month, on the fourteenth day between the two evenings, shall they keep it,—with unleavened cakes and bitter herbs, shall they eat it.
They shall not leave thereof until morning, and no bone, shall they break therein—according to all the statutes of the passover, shall they keep it.
But as for the man who is, clean, and no a journey, doth not chance to be and yet faileth to keep the passover, that person shall he cut off from among his kinsfolk,—for the oblation of Yahweh, hath he not offered in its appointed season, his own sin, shall, that man, bear.
When moreover there may sojourn with you a sojourner, who would keep a passover unto Yahweh, according to the statute of the passover, and according to the regulation thereof, so, must he keep [it],—one statute, shall there be for you, both for the sojourner and for the native of the land.
Now, on the day the habitation was reared, the cloud covered the habitation, even the tent of the testimony,—and in the evening, it was over the habitation, like an appearance of fire, until morning,
Thus, came it to pass continually, the cloud, covered it,—and an appearance of fire, by night;
but at the bidding of the upgoings of the cloud from off the tent, then, after that, the sons of Israel set forward,—and in the place where the cloud abode, there the sons of Israel encamped:
at the bidding of Yahweh, the sons of Israel set forward, and at the bidding of Yahweh, they encamped,—all the days that the cloud abode upon the habitation, they remained encamped.
And when the cloud lengthened out its stay upon the habitation, many days, then would the sons of Israel keep the watch of Yahweh, and would not set forward.
And, so it was, when the cloud would be a few days upon the habitation, at the bidding of Yahweh, they remained encamped, and at the bidding of Yahweh, they set forward.
And, so it was, when the cloud would be from evening until morning, as soon as the cloud went up in the morning, so soon did they set forward: whether by day or by night, as soon as the cloud went up, so soon did they set forward.
Whether for two days or a month or a year, the cloud lengthened out its stay upon the habitation abiding thereupon, the sons of Israel remained encamped and set not forward,—but at the upgoings thereof, they set forward.
At the bidding of Yahweh, they encamped, and at the bidding of Yahweh, they set forward,—the watch of Yahweh, they kept, at the bidding of Yahweh by the hand of Moses.