And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they came out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Moreover let the sons of Israel keep the Passover in its appointed season.
In the fourteenth day of this month, at evening, ye shall keep it in its appointed season. According to all the statutes of it, and according to all the ordinances of it, ye shall keep it.
And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, that they should keep the Passover.
And they kept the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at evening, in the wilderness of Sinai. According to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so did the sons of Israel.
And there were certain men who were unclean by reason of the dead body of a man, so that they could not keep the Passover on that day. And they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day,
and those men said to him, We are unclean by reason of the dead body of a man. Why are we kept back, that we may not offer the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season among the sons of Israel?
And Moses said to them, Stay ye, that I may hear what Jehovah will command concerning you.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your generations shall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be on a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the Passover to Jehovah.
In the second month on the fourteenth day at evening they shall keep it. They shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
They shall leave none of it to the morning, nor break a bone of it. According to all the statute of the Passover they shall keep it.
But the man who is clean, and is not on a journey, and forbears to keep the Passover, that soul shall be cut off from his people, because he did not offer the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season; that man shall bear his sin.
And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the Passover to Jehovah, according to the statute of the Passover, and according to the ordinance of it, so shall he do. Ye shall have one statute, both for the sojourner, and for him who is born in the land.
And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the tent of the testimony, and at evening it was upon the tabernacle, as it were the appearance of fire, until morning.
So it was always: the cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night.
And whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tent, then after that the sons of Israel journeyed. And in the place where the cloud abode, there the sons of Israel encamped.
At the commandment of Jehovah the sons of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of Jehovah they encamped. As long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they remained encamped.
And when the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle many days, then the sons of Israel kept the charge of Jehovah, and did not journey.
And sometimes the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle, then according to the commandment of Jehovah they remained encamped, and according to the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed.
And sometimes the cloud was from evening until morning, and when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they journeyed, or if by day and by night, when the cloud was taken up, they journeyed.
Whether it was two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, abiding on it, the sons of Israel remained encamped, and did not journey, but when it was taken up, they journeyed.
At the commandment of Jehovah they encamped, and at the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed. They kept the charge of Jehovah, at the commandment of Jehovah by Moses.