My heart trembles at this also, and it leaps out of its place.
Listen carefully to the thunder of His voice, and the rumbling that comes out of His mouth.
He loosens it under the whole heavens, and His lightning to the ends of the earth.
After it a voice roars; He thunders with the voice of His majesty, and He will not hold them when His voice is heard.
God thunders marvelously with His voice; He does great things, and we do not understand.
For He says to the snow, Fall on the earth; also to the shower of rain, and to the shower of heavy rains in its strength.
He seals up the hand of every man, so that all men may know His work.
Then the beast goes into its lair, and it remains in its dens.
Out of the storeroom comes the tempest; and cold from scattering winds.
By the breath of God ice is given; and the expanse of waters is frozen tight.
Also He loads the clouds with moisture; He scatters the lightning cloud,
and it is turned around by His guidance, so that they may do whatever He commands them on the face of the world in the earth.
Whether as a whip, or for His land, or for mercy, He finds it.
Listen to this, Job; stand still, and consider the wonderful works of God.
Do you know when God placed them, and caused the lightning of His cloud to shine?
Do you know the balancing of the clouds, the wonderful works of Him who is perfect in knowledge?
You whose clothes warm when He quiets the earth from the south wind?
Have you beat out the expanse with Him, hard like a cast mirror?
Teach us what we shall say to Him; for because of darkness we cannot arrange our case.
Shall it be told Him that I would speak? If a man speaks, surely he shall be swallowed up.
And now men cannot look upon the light; it is in the clouds; but the wind passes and clears them.
Golden splendor comes out of the north; God is awesome in His majesty.
The Almighty, whom we cannot find out, is exalted in power; and to judgment and overflowing righteousness He does no violence.
Therefore, men fear Him; He does not respect any who are wise in heart.