For every thing there is a fixed period, and an appointed time to every thing under heaven:—
A time to be born, and a time to die. A time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted.
A time to kill, and a time to heal. A time to breaking down, and a time to build up.
A time to weep, and a time to laugh. A time to mourn, and a time to dance.
A time to cast stones asunder, and a time to gather stones together. A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing.
A time to seek, and a time to lose. A time to keep, and a time to cast away.
A time to rend, and a time to sew. A time to keep silence, and a time to speak.
A time to love, and a time to hate. A time of war, and a time of peace.—
What profit hath he who laboreth from that with which he wearieth himself?
I have seen the business which God hath given to the sons of men to exercise themselves therewith.
God maketh every thing good in its time; but he hath put the world into the heart of man, so that he understandeth not the work which God doeth, from the beginning to the end.
I know that there is nothing better for a man than that he should rejoice and enjoy good his life long.
But when a man eateth and drinketh, and enjoyeth good through all his labor, this is the gift of God.
I know that whatever God doeth, that shall be for ever. Nothing can be added to it, and nothing taken from it; and God doeth it that men may fear before him.
That which is, was long ago; and that which is to be, hath already been; and God recalleth that which is past.
Moreover, I saw under the sun that in the place of justice there was iniquity; and in the place of righteousness, iniquity.
Then said I in my heart, "God will judge the righteous and the wicked." For there shall be a time for every matter and for every work.
I said in my heart concerning the sons of men, that God will prove them, in order that they may see that they are like the beasts.
For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts: one lot befalleth both. As the one dieth, so dieth the other. Yea, there is one spirit in them, and a man hath no pre-eminence above a beast; for all is vanity.
All go to one place; all are from the dust, and all turn to dust again.
Who knoweth the spirit of man, whether it goeth upward, and the spirit of a beast, whether it goeth downward to the earth?
And so I saw that there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his labors; for that is his portion. For who shall bring him to see what shall be after him?