So they brought in the ark of God, and placed it in the midst of the tent, which David had pitched for it,—and they brought near ascending-sacrifices and peace-offerings, before God.
And, when David had made an end of offering the ascending-sacrifices, and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people, in the name of Yahweh.
And he apportioned, to every one of Israel, both man and woman,—to every one, a loaf of bread, and a sweet drink, and a raisin cake.
And he placed before the ark of Yahweh certain of the Levites, as attendants,—and to celebrate, and to give thanks and render praise, unto Yahweh, God of Israel;
Asaph the chief, and, second to him, Zechariah,—Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with instruments of harps, and with lyres, and Asaph with cymbals, sounding aloud:
and Benaiah and Jahaziel, the priests,—with trumpets continually, before the ark of the covenant of God.
On that day, then, David gave [these songs] in chief, to give thanks unto Yahweh,—through Asaph, and his brethren:—
Give ye thanks to Yahweh, Call upon his name, Make known among the peoples, his doings;
Sing ye to him, Make music unto him, Speak ye of all his wonders.
Boast yourselves in his holy name, Joyful be the heart of them who are seeking Yahweh.
Search out Yahweh, and his power, Seek diligently his face, at all times.
Remember his wonders which he hath done, His splendid deeds, and the just decisions of his mouth.
O ye seed of Israel his servant, sons of Jacob his chosen ones:
Yahweh himself, is our God, through all the land, are his just decisions.
Remember yea to times age-abiding, his covenant, the word he hath commanded, to a thousand generations;
Which he solemnised with Abraham, and his oath, to Isaac;
And confirmed it, unto Jacob, for a statute, unto Israel, as a covenant age-abiding:
Saying, To thee, will I give the land of Canaan, as your inherited portion:
While, as yet, ye were men who could be counted, a very few, and sojourners therein:
And they wandered from nation to nation, and from one kingdom, to another people:
He suffered no man to oppress them, And reproved—for their sakes—kings!
Ye may not touch mine Anointed ones, And, to my Prophets, may ye do no wrong.
Sing to Yahweh, all the earth, Tell the tidings, from day to day, of his salvation:
Recount, among the nations, his glory, among all the peoples, his wonders.
For great is Yahweh, and worthy to be mightily praised, and to be revered is he above all gods;
For, all the gods of the peoples, are things of nought, but, Yahweh, made, the heavens.
Praise and majesty, are before him, Strength and joy, are in his dwelling-place.
Give to Yahweh, ye families of the peoples, Give to Yahweh, glory and strength:
Give to Yahweh, the glory of his name,—Bring ye a present, and enter before him, Bow down to Yahweh, in the adornment of holiness:
Tremble at his presence, all the earth, But the world, shall be established, it shall not be shaken.
Let the heavens rejoice, and the earth exult, Let them say among the nations, Yahweh, hath become king!
Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof, Let the field leap for joy, and all that is therein:
Then, shall shout in triumph, the trees of the forest, before Yahweh, for he is coming, to judge the earth.
Give ye thanks unto Yahweh, For he is good, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us and deliver us, from among the nations,—that we may give thanks unto thy holy name, that we may triumph aloud in thy praise.
Blessed be Yahweh, God of Israel, from one age even to another age. Then said all the people, Amen, And gave praise to Yahweh.
So he left there, before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, Asaph and his brethren,—to be in attendance before the ark continually, for the duty of a day on its day;
and Obed-edom with his brethren, sixty-eight,—and Obed-edom son of Jedithun and Hosah to be doorkeepers;
and Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the habitation of Yahweh,—in the high place that was in Gibeon:
to offer ascending-sacrifices unto Yahweh, upon the altar of ascending-sacrifice,—continually, morning and evening,—even according to all that is written in the law of Yahweh, which he commanded concerning Israel;
and, with them, Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest of the chosen ones, who were distinguished by name,—to give thanks unto Yahweh, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness!
And, with them, Heman and Jeduthun, [with] the trumpets, and the cymbals, for sounding aloud, and the instruments for the songs of God,—and the sons of Jeduthun, for the gate.
And all the people departed, every man to his house,—and David went round, to bless his own household.