TO the angel of the Ephesian church write; These things saith he who grasps the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh round in the midst of the seven golden lamps;
I know thy works, and thy travail, and thy patience, and that thou canst not bear the wicked; and hast tried those who give themselves out as apostles, yet are not, and hast found them liars;
and hast borne, and hast exercised patience, and for my name sake hast endured great toil, and hast not fainted.
Yet have I a charge against thee, that thou art gone back from thy first love.
Remember then from whence thou hast fallen, and repent, and practise thy first works; but if not, I am coming to thee quickly, and I will remove thy lamp out of its place, except thou repent.
But this thou holdest, that thou abhorrest the deeds of the Nicolatans, which I also abhor.
He that hath ears, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches, To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.
And to the angel of the church of the Smyrnians write, These things saith the first and the last, who was dead, and is alive:
I know thy works, and thy tribulation, and thy poverty (though thou art rich), and the calumnies of those who say they are Jews, yet are not, but are Satan’s synagogue.
Fear nothing from the things which thou shalt suffer: lo! the devil will cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have a ten day’s tribulation: be thou faithful until death, and I will give thee a crown of life.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. He that overcometh shall receive no injury from the second death.
And to the angel of the church at Pergamos write, These things saith he who holdeth the sharp two-edged sword;
I know thy works and where thou hast thy abode, even where Satan’s throne is erected: and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those days when Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was put to death among you, where Satan dwelleth.
Yet I have a few things against thee, that thou hast there some who hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to lay a stumbling-block before the children of Israel, to eat of idol sacrifices, and to commit whoredom.
Thou hast also some who hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which I abhor.
Repent! but if not, I am coming to thee quickly, and will war against them with the sword of my mouth.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches, To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white pebble, and upon the pebble a new name inscribed, which no man knoweth except the person who receiveth it.
And to the angel of the church which is at Thyatira write, These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes as a flame of fire, and his feet like the molten brass;
I know thy deeds, and thy love, and thy charity to the poor, and thy faith, and thy patience, and thy works, and that the last are more abundant than the first.
Yet I have a few things against thee, because thou hast suffered that woman Jezabel, calling herself a prophetess, to teach, and to lead my servants into error, to commit whoredom, and eat the idol sacrifices.
And I gave her a space that she should repent of her whoredom, and she hath not repented.
Behold, I am about to cast her on a bed, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of their deeds.
And I will slay her children by death; and all the churches shall know that I am he who searcheth the reins and the hearts: and I will give to you, even to every one, according to your works.
But to you I say, and to the rest that are at Thyatira, as many as do not hold this doctrine, and who have not known the depths of Satan, as they speak, I will lay upon them no other burden.
Nevertheless that which you have, hold fast till I come.
And he who overcometh, and perseveres in my works unto the end, to him will I give authority over the nations;
he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as a potter’s vessels they shall be broken in pieces, even as I have received authority from my Father:
and I will give him the star of the morning.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.