Then came the men of Kiriath-jearim and fetched up the ark of Yahweh, and brought it into the house of Abinadab, in the hill,—and, Eleazar his son, hallowed they, to guard the ark of Yahweh.
And so it was, that, from the day the ark came to dwell in Kiriath-jearim, the days multiplied, and became twenty years,—and all the house of Israel went mourning after Yahweh.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If, with all your heart, ye are returning unto Yahweh, then put away the gods of the foreigner out of your midst, and the Ashtoreths—and firmly set your heart towards Yahweh, and serve him, alone, that he may deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
So the sons of Israel put away the Baals, and the Ashtoreths,—and served Yahweh, alone.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah,—that I may pray for you, unto Yahweh.
So they gathered themselves unto Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Yahweh, and fasted on that day, and said, there, We have sinned against Yahweh. And Samuel judged the sons of Israel in Mizpah.
And, when the Philistines heard that the sons of Israel had gathered themselves together unto Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel,—and, when the sons of Israel heard it, they shrank with fear, from the face of the Philistines.
And the sons of Israel said unto Samuel, Do not turn in silence from us, from making outcry unto Yahweh our God,—that he would save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
So Samuel took one sucking lamb, and offered it up, as an entire ascending-sacrifice unto Yahweh,—and Samuel made outcry unto Yahweh, for Israel, and Yahweh answered him.
And, when Samuel was offering up the ascending-sacrifice, the Philistines, drew near to fight against Israel,—but Yahweh thundered with a great noise throughout that day, over the Philistines, and confused them, and they were smitten before Israel.
And the men of Israel went forth out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines,—and smote them as far as under Beth-car.
And Samuel took a certain stone, and set it between Mizpah and Yeshanah, and called the name thereof Eben-ezer,—and said, Hitherto, hath Yahweh helped us.
So the Philistines were subdued, and, no more, came within the boundary of Israel,—and the hand of Yahweh was against the Philistines, all the days of Samuel.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even as far as Gath; even the boundaries thereof, did Israel rescue out of the hand of the Philistines,—thus came there to be peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel judged Israel, all the days of his life.
And he used to take his journey, from year to year, and go round to Bethel, and Gilgal, and Mizpah,—and used to judge Israel, at all these places.
And, his returning, was to Ramah, for, there, was his house, and, there, judged he Israel,—so he built there an altar unto Yahweh.