I will sing evermore of the love of the Lord, proclaiming to all generations his faithfulness.
For your love you did promise to build up forever, your faithfulness firm as the heavens themselves.
“I have made with my chosen a covenant, and sworn to David my servant,
to establish his seed forever, and to build up his throne to all ages.” (Selah)
Then the holy assembly in heaven praised your marvellous faithfulness, Lord.
For who in the skies may compare with the Lord? Who is like the Lord among the gods?
A God to be feared in the holy assembly, awful and great above all who are round him.
O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty as you? Your strength and faithfulness, Lord, surround you.
You are the Lord of the raging sea: when its waves surge, it is you who still them.
It was you who did pierce and crush Rahab in pieces, and scatter your foes by your mighty arm.
Yours are the heavens, yours also the earth, the world and its fulness, it’s you who did found them.
The north and the south, it’s you have created them; Tabor and Hermon shout praise to your name.
You have an arm with the might of a hero; strong is your hand, high uplifted your right hand.
Justice and right are the base of your throne, kindness and faithfulness ever attend you.
Happy the people who know the glad shout, who walk, O Lord, in the light of your face.
They exult in your name all the day, and your righteousness they extol.
For you are our strength and our pride. Your favour will lift us to honour.
For the holy Lord of Israel keeps our defender and king.
In a vision of old you did speak in this way to the one whom you loved, “A crown I have set on the hero I chose to be over the people
I found my servant David, and anointed with holy oil.
My hand will be with him forever, my arm will give him strength.
No enemy will dare to assail him, nor the wicked to oppress him;
but his foes I will shatter before him, I will strike down those who hate him.
My loyal love shall attend him, and I will lift him to honour.
I will set his hand on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers.
As for him, he will call me ‘My father, my God, and my rock of salvation.’
And I will make him my first-born, highest of kings on the earth.
My love will I keep for him ever, my covenant with him shall stand fast.
His line will I make everlasting, and his throne as the days of the heavens.
If his children forsake my law, and walk not as I have ordained;
if they profane my statutes, and do not keep my commandments;
I will punish their sin with the rod, their iniquity with scourges.
But my love will I not take from him, nor will I belie my faithfulness.
I will not profane my covenant by changing the word that has passed my lips.
Once have I solemnly sworn and I would not lie to David,
that his line should endure forever, and his throne as the sun before me,
firm as the moon which for ever and ever is fixed in the sky.” (Selah)
But you have cast off in contempt, and been furious with your anointed.
You have spurned the covenant with your servant, and his sacred crown dashed to the ground.
You have broken down all his walls, and laid his bulwarks in ruins.
All who pass on their way despoil him, the scorn of his neighbours is he now.
You have given his foes the victory, and made all his enemies glad.
You have turned back his sword from the foe, you did not lift him up in the battle.
The sceptre you took from his hand, and his throne you did hurl to the ground.
You have shortened the days of his youth, and covered him with shame. (Selah)
How long, Lord will you hide you forever? How long are the fires of your wrath to burn?
Remember, Lord, the shortness of life how fleeting you made all people.
Who can live without seeing death? Who can rescue their life from the clutch of Sheol? (Selah)
Where, Lord, is your kindness of old, which you in your faithfulness swore to David?
Remember, O Lord, how your servants are mocked, how I bear in my heart the scorn of all nations
The scorn which your enemies hurl, O Lord, which they hurl at the footsteps of your anointed.      Blest be the Lord, for ever and ever. Amen and Amen.
