My dear children! these things, am I writing unto you, in order that ye may not be committing sin. And, if anyone should commit sin, an Advocate, have we, with the Father, Jesus Christ, the Righteous;
And, he, is, a propitiation, concerning our sins,—and, not concerning our own only, but, also concerning those of the whole world.
And, hereby, perceive we, that we understand him,—if, his commandments, we are keeping.
He that saith—I understand him! And, his commandments, is not keeping, is false, and, in him, the truth is not!
But whosoever may be keeping his word, of a truth, in this man, the love of God hath been made perfect. Hereby, perceive we, that, in him, we are.
He that saith, that, in him, he abideth, ought, just as He walked, himself also, to be walking.
Beloved! no new commandment, am I writing unto you; but an old commandment, which ye have been holding from the beginning: The old commandment is the word which ye have heard.
Again, a new commandment, am I writing unto you,—which thing is true, in him and in you, because, the darkness, is passing away, and, the real light, already is shining.
He that saith he is, in the light, and hateth, his brother, is, in the darkness, until even now!
He that loveth his brother, is abiding, in the light, and, cause of stumbling, in him, is there none.
Whereas, he that hateth his brother, in the darkness, dwelleth, and in the darkness, walketh; and knoweth not whither he is drifting, because the, darkness, hath blinded his eyes.
I write unto you, dear children, because your sins have been forgiven you, for the sake of his name:
I write unto you, fathers, because ye understand him who was from the beginning: I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one. I have written unto you, little children, because ye understand the Father:
I have written unto you, fathers, because ye understand him who was from the beginning: I have written you, young men, because ye are, strong, and the word of God, within you, abideth, and ye have overcome the wicked one.
Be not loving the world, nor yet the things that are in the world: if anyone be loving the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
Because, all that is in the world—the coveting of the flesh, the coveting of the eyes, and the vain grandeur of life—is not of the Father, but is, of the world;
And, the world, passeth away, and the coveting [thereof], but, he that doeth the will of God, endureth unto times age-abiding.
Little children! it is, the last hour; and, just as ye have heard that, an antichrist, is coming, even now, antichrists have become, many, whence we perceive that it is, the last hour:
From among us, they went out, but they were not of us; for, if, of us, they had been, they would in that case have abode with us; but [it came to pass] in order that they might be made manifest, because, all, are not of us.
And, ye, have, an anointing, from the Holy One,—Ye all, know:
I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and because, no falsehood, is, of the truth.
Who, is the False One;—save he that denieth that, Jesus, is the Christ? The same, is the Antichrist,—he that denieth the Father and the Son.
Whosoever denieth the Son, neither hath he, the Father: He that confesseth the Son, hath, the Father also.
As for you, what ye have heard from the beginning, in you, let it abide. If, in you, shall abide, that which, from the beginning, ye have heard, ye also, in the Son, and [in] the Father, shall abide.
And, this, is the promise, which he hath promised unto us,—The age-abiding life.
These things, have I written unto you, concerning them who would lead you astray.
And, as for you, the anointing which ye have received from him, abideth in you, and ye have, no need, that anyone be teaching you; but, as, his anointing, is teaching you, and is, true, and is no falsehood, even just as it hath taught you, abide ye in him.
And, now, dear children, abide ye in him, in order that, if he be made manifest, we may have boldness, and not be shamed away from him by his presence.
If ye know that he is, righteous, ye perceive that—whosoever doeth righteousness, of him, hath been born.