Therefore shalt thou love Yahweh thy God and keep his observance and his statutes and his regulations and his commandments all the days.
And ye must know to-day, (for not with your sons [do I speak] who know not, neither have they seen) the discipline of Yahweh your God,—his greatness, his firm hand, and his stretched-out arm;
and his signs and his doings, which he did in the midst of Egypt,—unto Pharaoh king of Egypt and unto all his land;
and what he did unto the forces of Egypt—unto his horses and unto his chariots in that he caused the waters of the Red Sea to flow over their faces, when they were pursuing after you,—and so Yahweh destroyed them (unto this day);
and what he did unto you, in the desert,—until ye came in as far as this place;
and what he did to Dathan and to Abiram, sons of Eliab, son of Reuben, in that the earth opened wide her mouth, and swallowed-up them and their households and their tents,—and all the living things that attended them, in the midst of all Israel.
For yours, are the eyes that have seen every great deed of Yahweh,—which he hath done.
Therefore shall ye keep all the commandment which I am commanding thee, today,—that ye may be strong, and so enter and possess the land, whither ye are passing over to possess it;
and that ye may prolong your days upon the soil which Yahweh sware unto your fathers, to give unto them and unto their seed,—a land flowing with milk and honey.
For the land which thou art entering to, possess, not like the land of Egypt, it is, from whence ye came out,—where thou didst sow thy seed, and then water it with thy foot, like a garden of herbs;
but the land whereinto ye are passing over to, possess it, is a land of hills, and valleys,—which of the rain of the heavens, doth drink water:
a land which Yahweh thy God careth for,—continually are the eyes of Yahweh thy God upon it, from the beginning of the year, even unto the end of the year.
And it shall come to pass, if ye will hearken, unto my commandments, which, I am commanding you to-day,—to love Yahweh your God, and to serve him, with, all your heart, and with all your soul,
then [saith he] I will give the rain of your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain; so shalt thou gather in thy corn, and thy new wine and thine oil;
and I will give grass in thy field for thy cattle,—and thou shalt eat and be satisfied.
Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be befooled,—and ye turn aside and serve other gods, and bow down to them.
So would the anger of Yahweh kindle upon you and he would shut up the heavens, that there should be no rain, and the ground, would not yield her increase,—so should ye perish speedily, from off the good land, which Yahweh is giving unto you.
Therefore shall ye lay these my words upon your heart, and upon your soul,—and bind them for a sign upon your hand, and they shall serve as bands between your eyes;
and ye shall teach them unto your children by speaking of them,—when thou sittest in thy house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down and when thou risest up;
and thou shalt write them upon the door-posts of thy house and within thy gates:
that your days may multiply, and the days of your children, upon the soil which Yahweh sware unto your fathers, to give unto them,—like the days of the heavens upon the earth.
For if ye do, indeed keep, all this commandment which I am commanding you to do it,—to love Yahweh your God, to Walk in all his ways, and to cleave unto him,
then will Yahweh dispossess all these nations, from before you,—and ye shall dispossess nations greater and stronger than ye:
every place whereon the sole of your foot shall tread yours, shall it be,—from the desert and the Lebanon from the river—the river Euphrates, even unto the hinder sea, shall be your boundary.
No man shall stand before you,—the dread of you and the fear of you, will Yahweh your God put forth over the face of all the land whereon ye shall tread, as he spake unto you.
See! I am setting before you to-day,—a blessing, and a curse:
the blessing, when ye shall hearken unto the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I am commanding you to-day;
and the curse if ye, shall not hearken unto the commandments of Yahweh your God, but shall turn aside out of the way which I am commanding you to-day,—to go after other gods which ye know not.
And it shall come to pass when Yahweh thy God shall bring thee into the land which thou art entering to possess, then shalt thou put the blessing, upon Mount Gerizim, and the curse, upon Mount Ebal.
Are, they, not over the Jordan on the way towards the entering in of the sun, in the land of the Canaanite who dwelleth in the plain over against Gilgal beside the Teacher’s Terebinths?
For ye are passing over the Jordan, to enter to possess the land which Yahweh your God, is giving unto you,—so shall ye possess it and dwell therein.
Therefore shall ye observe to do all the statutes and the regulations,—which I am setting before you to-day.