Here the Pharisees and Sadducees came up, and, to test Jesus, requested him to show them some sign from the heavens.
But Jesus answered: “In the evening you say ‘It will be fine weather, for the sky is as red as fire.’
But in the morning you say ‘To-day it will be stormy, for the sky is as red as fire and threatening.’ You learn to read the sky; yet you are unable to read the signs of the times!
A wicked and unfaithful generation is asking for a sign, but no sign shall be given it except the sign of Jonah.”  So he left them and went away.
Now the disciples had crossed to the opposite shore, and had forgotten to take any bread.
Presently Jesus said to them: “Take care and be on your guard against the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
But the disciples began talking among themselves about their having brought no bread.
On noticing this, Jesus said: “Why are you talking among yourselves about your being short of bread, O men of little faith?
Do not you yet see, nor remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you took away?
Nor yet the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many basketfuls you took away?
How is it that you do not see that I was not speaking about bread? Be on your guard against the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
Then they understood that he had told them to be on their guard, not against the leaven of bread, but against the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
On coming into the neighbourhood of Caesarea Philippi, Jesus asked his disciples this question — “Who do people say that the Son of Man is?”
“Some say John the Baptist,” they answered, “Others, however, say that he is Elijah, while others again say Jeremiah, or one of the Prophets.”
“But you,”  he said, “who do you say that I am?”
And to this Simon Peter answered: “You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God.”
“Blessed are you, Simon, Son of Jonah,”  Jesus replied. “For no human being has revealed this to you, but my Father who is in Heaven.
Yes, and I say to you, Your name is ‘Peter — a Rock, and on this rock I will build my Church, and the Powers of the Place of Death shall not prevail over it.
I will give you the keys of the Kingdom of Heaven. Whatever you forbid on earth will be held in Heaven to be forbidden, and whatever you allow on earth will be held in Heaven to be allowed.”
Then he charged his disciples not to tell any one that he was the Christ.
At that time Jesus Christ began to explain to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem, and undergo much suffering at the hands of the Councillors, and Chief Priests, and Teachers of the Law, and be put to death, and rise on the third day.
But Peter took Jesus aside, and began to rebuke him. “Master,” he said, “please God that shall never be your fate!”
Jesus, however, turning to Peter, said: “Out of my way, Satan! You are a hindrance to me; for you look at things, not as God does, but as man does.”
Then Jesus said to his disciples: “If any man wishes to walk in my steps, let him renounce self, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, and whoever, for my sake, loses his life shall find it.
What good will it do a man to gain the whole world, if he forfeits his life? or what will a man give that is of equal value with his life?
For the Son of Man is to come in his Father’s Glory, with his angels, and then he ‘will give to every man what his actions deserve.’
I tell you, some of those who are standing here will not know death till they have seen the Son of Man coming into his Kingdom.”