PAUL, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy a brother, to Philemon the beloved, and our fellow-labourer,
and to Apphia the beloved, and to Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the church at thy house:
grace be to you, and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God always, making mention of thee in my prayers,
hearing of thy love and faith which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus, and unto all the saints;
that there may be an operative communication of thy faith made known by every good thing, which is in you towards Jesus Christ.
For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints have been refreshed by thee, brother.
Wherefore, though I have in Christ great liberty to enjoin thee what is becoming,
I rather for love’s sake entreat, being such as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner for Jesus Christ.
I entreat thee for my son, whom I have begotten during my bonds, Onesimus:
who in time past hath been an unprofitable servant to thee, but now very profitable to thee and to me:
whom I have sent back; thou therefore receive him, even as my own bowels:
whom I wished to detain about myself, that in thy stead he might have waited upon me during my bonds for the gospel:
but without thy consent would I do nothing; that this good deed of thine might not be as of necessity, but from thy own choice.
For to this end perhaps was he separated from thee for a season, that thou mightest receive him for ever;
no longer as a slave, but above a slave, as a brother beloved, especially by me, but how much more by thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?
If therefore thou holdest me a sharer with thee, receive him as myself.
If he hath injured thee or oweth thee ought, put that to my account;
I Paul have given it under my own hand, I will repay it, not to say to thee, that thou owest even thine own self unto me.
Yea, brother, I wish to have joy in thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord.
Having confidence in thy obedience, I have written unto thee, knowing that thou wilt do more than I say.
But at the same time prepare me also a lodging: for I hope that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.
There salute thee Epaphras, my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus;
Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow-labourers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Amen.   Written to Philemon from Rome, by Onesimus one of his household. \p