And, certain persons, coming down from Judea, began to teach the brethren—Except ye be circumcised according to the custom of Moses, ye cannot be saved.
And, when Paul and Barnabas had had no little dissension and discussion with them, it was arranged that Paul and Barnabas and certain others from among them should go up unto the Apostles and Elders in Jerusalem concerning this question,
They, therefore, being set forward by the Assembly, began passing through Phoenicia and Samaria, fully relating the conversion of them of the nations, and were causing great joy unto all the brethren.
And, having arrived in Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the Assembly and the Apostles and the Elders; and they recounted all things God had done with them.
But there [had] stood forth some of those who, from the sect of Pharisees, had believed, saying—It is needful to be circumcising them, also to charge them to be keeping the law of Moses.
And the Apostles and Elders were gathered together to see about this matter.
And, when much discussion had arisen, Peter standing up, said unto them—Brethren! Ye yourselves, well know that, in days long past, amongst you, God chose that, through my mouth, the nations should hear the word of the glad tidings, and believe.
And, the heart-observing God, bare witness,—unto them, giving the Holy Spirit, just as, even unto us;
and made no distinction at all betwixt us and them, by their faith, purifying their hearts.
Now, therefore, why are ye proving God, that ye should put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which, neither our fathers, nor we, have been able to bear.
But, through the favour of the Lord Jesus, we believe we shall be saved, in like manner as, even they.
And all the throng held their peace, and began to hearken unto Barnabas and Paul relating how many signs and wonders God had done among the nations, through them.
And, after they held their peace, James answered, saying—Brethren! hearken unto me.
Symeon, hath fully told how God, first visited, to take out of the nations, a people for his name.
And, with this, agree the words of the prophets, according as it is written—
After these things, will I return, and will rebuild the tent of David that hath fallen, and, the ruins thereof, will I rebuild, and will set it up again:
That the residues of men may seek out the Lord, and all the nations upon whom my name hath been called, saith the Lord that doeth these things,
Known from age-past times.
Wherefore, I, judge, not to be troubling them who, from the nations, are turning unto God;
but to write unto them, to abstain from the pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from what is strangled, and from blood.
For, Moses, out of ancient generation, hath, in every city, them who proclaim him; seeing, that in the synagogues, every sabbath, he is read.
Then, seemed it good unto the Apostles and the Elders with the whole Assembly to send chosen men from among them unto Antioch, with Paul and Barnabas,—even Judas who is called Barsabbas, and Silas, men taking a lead among the brethren:
writing through their hand—The Apostles and the Elder Brethren, unto the brethren throughout Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, who are from among the nations, wish joy!
Inasmuch as we had heard that, certain from among us, had troubled you with words, dismantling your souls,—unto whom we had given no instructions,
It seemed good unto us, coming to be of one accord, that we should choose men and send them unto you, with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,—
men who have given up their lives in behalf of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We have sent, therefore, Judas and Silas, who also, themselves, by word of mouth, can tell you the same things.
For it hath seemed good unto the Holy Spirit and unto us, no greater burden, to be laying upon you, than these necessary things:—
To be abstaining from idol sacrifices, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from fornication,—From which, if ye keep yourselves, ye shall prosper. Fare ye well.
They, therefore, being let go, came down unto Antioch; and, having gathered together the throng, delivered the letter,
and, when they read it, they rejoiced for the consolation.
And, both Judas and Silas, being themselves also prophets, with much discourse, consoled and confirmed the brethren.
And, when they had spent a time, they were let go, in peace, from the brethren, unto them who had sent them.

But, Paul and Barnabas, tarried in Antioch, teaching and telling the joyful tidings,—along with many others also,—of the word of the Lord.
And, after certain days, Paul, said unto Barnabas—Let us now return, and visit the brethren in every city in which we have declared the word of the Lord, and see how they are.
And, Barnabas, was minded to take with them John also, called Mark;
but Paul deemed it right, as to him who had withdrawn from them, back from Pamphylia, and had not gone with them unto the work, not to be taking with them, this, man.
And there arose an angry feeling, so that they separated one from the other: and, Barnabas, taking Mark, sailed away unto Cyprus,—
whereas, Paul, choosing Silas, went forth, committed unto the favour of the Lord by the brethren,
and proceeded to pass through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the assemblies.