And Yahweh spake unto Moses, after the death of the two sons of Aaron,—when they had offered strange fire before Yahweh and died.
And Yahweh said unto Moses—Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he do not come at all times into the holy place, within the veil,—into the presence of the propitiatory, which is upon the ark, so shall he not die, for, in the cloud, will I appear upon the propitiatory.
Herewith, shall Aaron come into the holy place,—With a bullock the choice of the herd as a sin-bearer, and a ram as an ascending-sacrifice.
A holy tunic of linen, shall he put on and drawers of linen, shall be upon his flesh, and with a band of linen, shall he gird himself, and with a turban of linen, shall his head be wrapped about,—holy garments, they are, therefore shall he bathe in water his flesh, and so put them on.
And, from the assembly of the sons of Israel, shall he receive two he-goats, for bearing sin,—and one ram, as an ascending-sacrifice.
Then shall Aaron bring near the sin-bearing bullock which is for himself,—and put a propitiatory-covering about himself, and about his household.
Then shall he take the two goats,—and cause them to stand before Yahweh, at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
And Aaron shall cast lots over the two goats,—one lot for Yahweh, and one lot for Azazel.
Then shall Aaron bring near the goat over which came up the lot for Yahweh,—and shall make of him a sin-bearer;
but, the goat over which came up the lot for Azazel, shall he cause to stand alive—before Yahweh to put a propitiatory-covering over him,—to send him away unto Azazel, towards the desert.
So Aaron shall bring near the sin-bearing bullock which is for himself, and shall put a propitiatory-covering about himself, and about his household,—and shall slay the sin-bearing bullock which is for himself;
and shall take the censer-full of burning coals of fire from off the altar from before Yahweh, and his hands full of fragrant incense, beaten small,—and bring within the veil;
and shall put the incense upon the fire before Yahweh,—and the cloud of incense shall cover the propitiatory which is over the testimony, and he shall not die.
Then shall he take of the blood of the bullock, and shall sprinkle with his finger upon the face of the propitiatory, eastwards,—and before the propitiatory, shall he sprinkle seven times, of the blood, with his finger.
Then shall he slay the sin-bearing goat which is for the people, and bring in its blood, within the veil,—and do with its blood, as he did to the blood of the bullock, and shall sprinkle it, upon the propitiatory and before the propitiatory:
so shall he put a propitiatory-covering, over the holy place because of the uncleanness of the sons of Israel, and because of their transgressions to the extent of all their sins,—and, so, shall he do for the tent of meeting which abideth with them, in the midst of their uncleanness.
And no human being, shall be in the tent of meeting, when he cometh in to make a covering by propitiation in the holy place, until he goeth out,—so shall he put a propitiatory-covering about himself and about his household and about all the convocation of Israel.
Then shall he go out unto the altar which is before Yahweh and shall put a propitiatory-covering thereupon,—and shall take of the blood of the bullock, and of the blood of the goat, and put upon the horns of the altar, round about;
and shall sprinkle upon it, of the blood with his finger seven times,—and shall cleanse it and hallow it, from the uncleannesses of the sons of Israel.
And, when he hath made an end of covering by propitiation the holy place, and the tent of meeting, and the altar, then shall he bring near the living goat.
And Aaron shall lean his two hands upon the head of the living goat, and confess over him, all the iniquities of the sons of Israel, and all their transgressions, to the extent of all their sins,—and shall put them upon the head of the goat, and then send him away, by the hand of a man appointed towards the desert:
so shall the goat bear upon him all their iniquities into a lone land,—and he shall set the goat free, in the desert.
Then shall Aaron come into the tent of meeting, and put off the linen garments which he put on when he came into the holy place,—and shall leave them there;
and shall bathe his flesh in water in a holy place, and put on his [other] garments,—and go forth, and offer his own ascending-sacrifice, and the ascending-sacrifice of the people, so shall he put a propitiatory-covering about himself, and about the people;
and, with the fat of the sin-bearer, shall he make a perfume at the altar.
And he that sent away the goat unto Azazel, shall wash—his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water,—and, after that, shall he come into the camp.
And the, sin-bearing bullock, and the sin-bearing goat whose blood was brought in to make a propitiatory-covering in the holy place, shall be carried forth outside the camp,—and they shall burn up, in fire, their skins and their flesh, and their dung;
and he that hath burned them, shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water,—and, after that, shall he come into the camp.
And it shall become unto you, a statute age-abiding,—In the seventh month on the tenth of the month, Shall ye humble you souls And, no work, shall ye do, The home-born, Or the sojourner that sojourneth in your midst;
For on this day, shall a propitiatory-covering, be put over you, to cleanse you,—From all your sins before Yahweh, shall ye be clean.
A sabbath of sacred rest, it is unto you, Therefore shall ye humble your souls, A statute age-abiding.
Therefore shall the priest who shall be anointed, and installed, to minister as priest in the stead of his father make propitiation,—So then he shall put on the linen garments the holy garments;
And make propitiation for the holy sanctuary, And for the tent of meeting, and for the altar, shall he make propitiation,—Over the priests also and over all the people of the convocation, shall he put a covering by propitiation.
So shall this become unto you an age-abiding statute,—to put a propitiatory-covering over the sons of Israel because of all their sins, Once in the year. And he did, As Yahweh commanded Moses.