Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to the ones called in God the Father, having been set apart, and having been kept to Jesus Christ:
Mercy and peace, and love be multiplied to you.
Having made all haste to write to you about the common salvation, beloved, I had need to write to you to exhort you to contend earnestly for the faith once delivered to the saints.
For certain men crept in secretly, those having been of old marked out to this condemnation, ungodly ones perverting the grace of God for unbridled lust, and denying the only Master, God, even our Lord Jesus Christ.
But I intend to remind you, you once knowing these things, that the Lord having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, in the second place destroyed the ones not believing.
And those angels not having kept their first place, but having deserted their dwelling-place, He has kept in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of a great Day;
as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, in like manner to these, committing fornication, and going away after other flesh, laid down an example before-times, undergoing vengeance of everlasting fire.
Likewise, indeed, also those dreaming ones even defile flesh, and despise rulership, and speak evil of glories.
But Michael the archangel, when contending with the Devil, he argued about the body of Moses; he dared not bring a judgment of blasphemy, but said, "Let the Lord rebuke you!" Zech. 3:2
But what things they do not know, they speak evil of these. And what things they understand naturally, like the animals without reason, they are corrupted by these.
Woe to them, because they went the way of Cain, and gave themselves up to the error of Balaam for reward, and perished in the speaking against of Korah!
These are sunken rocks in your love feasts, feasting together with you, feeding themselves without fear, waterless clouds being carried about by winds, fruitless autumn trees, having died twice, having been plucked up by the roots;
wild waves of the sea foaming up their shames, wandering stars for whom blackness of darkness has been kept forever.
And "the seventh from Adam," Enoch, also prophesied to these men, saying, Behold, "the Lord came with" myriads "of His saints,"
"to do judgment against all, and to rebuke all" the ungodly of them concerning all their ungodly works which :they ungodly" did, "and concerning all the hard things ungodly sinners spoke against Him." I Enoch 1:9; 5:4; 60:8
These are murmurers, complainers, having gone according to their lusts, and their mouth speaks proud things, admiring faces for the sake of gain.
But you, beloved, remember the words spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
because they told you that at the last time there will be mockers following ungodlinesses according to their lusts.
These are the ones setting themselves apart, animal-like ones, not having the Spirit.
But you, beloved, building yourselves up by your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
keep yourselves in the love of God, eagerly awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to everlasting life.
And pity some, making distinction.
But save others with fear, snatching them out of the fire, hating even the garment having been stained from the flesh.
Now to Him being able to keep you without stumbling, and to set you before His glory without blemish, with unspeakable joy;
to the only wise God, our Savior, be glory and majesty and might and authority, even now and forever. Amen.