And it came to pass, after this, that Nahash king of the sons of Ammon died,—and Hanun his son reigned in his stead.
Then said David—I will show lovingkindness unto Hanun, son of Nahash,—for his father shewed unto me lovingkindness. So David sent messengers to console him concerning his father,—and the servants of David came into the land of the sons of Ammon unto Hanun, to console him.
Then said the rulers of the sons of Ammon unto Hanun, Doth David honour thy father in thine eyes, that he hath sent to thee comforters? Is it not, for the sake of exploring and overthrowing, and spying out the land, that his servants have come to thee?
So Hanun took the servants of David, and shaved them, and cut off their upper garments in the middle, as far as their parts of shame,—and let them go.
And people went and told David, concerning the men, so he sent to meet them, because the men were greatly ashamed,—and the king said—Tarry at Jericho, until your beards be grown, and then return.
And, when the sons of Ammon saw, that they had made themselves odious with David, Hanun and the sons of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver, to hire for themselves—out of Mesopotamia, and out of Aram-maacah, and out of Zobah,—chariots, and horsemen.
So they hired for themselves thirty-two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah, and his people, who came and pitched before Medeba,—and the sons of Ammon gathered themselves together out of their cities, and entered into the war.
Now, when David heard, he sent Joab and all the army of heroes.
And the sons of Ammon came out, and set in array for the battle, at the opening of the city,—whereas, the kings who had come, were by themselves, in the field.
So, when Joab saw that the battle confronted him, before and behind,—he chose out of all the choice in Israel, and set in array to meet the Syrians;
and, the rest of the people, delivered he into the hand of Abishai his brother,—and they set in array, to meet the sons of Ammon.
And he said—If, too strong for me, be the Syrians, then shalt thou come to my help,—but, if, the sons of Ammon, be too strong for thee, then will I help thee.
Be strong, and let us put forth our strength, for the sake of our people, and for the sake of the cities of our God,—and let, Yahweh, do, what is good in his own eyes.
Then did Joab, and all the people who were with him, draw near before the Syrians unto the battle,—and they fled from before him.
And, when, the sons of Ammon, saw that the Syrians had fled, then fled, they also, from before Abishai his brother, and entered the city,—and Joab came to Jerusalem.
And when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated before Israel, then sent they messengers, and brought out the Syrians who were Beyond the River,—with Shophach captain of the army of Hadarezer, before them.
And it was told David, and he gathered together all Israel, and crossed the Jordan, and came unto them, and set in array against them,—and, when David had set in array against the Syrians for battle, they fought with him.
And the Syrians fled from before Israel, and David slew of the Syrians [the men of] seven thousand chariots, and forty thousand footmen,—and, Shophach captain of the army, he put to death.
And, when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were defeated before Israel, they made peace with David and served him,—neither would the Syrians help the sons of Ammon any more.