AND there was given me a cane like a measuring staff; and the angel stood by, saying, Arise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and those who worship therein.
But the exterior court of the temple leave out, and measure it not; because it is given to the Gentiles: and they shall trample under foot the holy city forty-two months.
And I will give charge to my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
These are the two olive trees, and the two lamps which stand before the face of the God of the earth.
And if any person attempts to hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any person attempts to injure them, he must thus be slain.
These have power to shut up the heaven, that no rain water the earth during the days of their prophecy: and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to smite the earth with every plague, as often as they will.
And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast which ascendeth out of hell shall make war with them, and shall overcome them, and put them to death.
And their corpses shall be exposed in the streets of the great city, which is called spiritually Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.
And they of the people and tribes and tongues and nations will look upon their corpses three days and half, and they will not permit their corpses to be laid in sepulchres.
And the dwellers upon earth will rejoice over them, and be very glad, and will send gifts to each other; because these two prophets were a torment to those who dwell on the earth.
And after three days and half, the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood up on their feet; and great terror fell on those who beheld them.
And they heard a great voice out of heaven, saying unto them, Ascend up hither. And they ascended into heaven in a cloud: and their enemies beheld them.
And in the same hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and there were slain in the earthquake seven thousand men of note: and the rest were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second woe is past; behold the third woe is coming quickly.
And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of the world are become our Lord’s, and his Messiah’s, and he shall reign for ever and ever.
And the four and twenty presbyters, who were seated before God upon their thrones, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God,
saying, We give thanks to thee, Lord the Almighty God, who is and who was, and who is coming, because thou hast assumed thy great power, and hast set up the throne of thy kingdom.
Though the nations were incensed, yet thy wrath came, and the time of the dead to be judged, and to give the reward to thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to all who fear thy name, to the small and to the great; and to destroy those who have destroyed the earth.
And the temple of God was opened in the heaven, and there appeared the ark of his covenant in his temple: and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and earthquake, and a great hail.