As it respects the collection which is for the saints, as I have given orders to the churches of Galatia, so also do you.
On the first day of the week, let each of you lay by him, and treasure up as he has prospered, that there may be no collections when I come.
And when I come, whatever persons you approve, I will send with letters to carry your favor to Jerusalem.
And if it be proper that I also should go, they shall go with me.
Now I will come to you, when I have passed through Macedonia, for I intend to go through Macedonia;
and perhaps I may abide with you, or even spend the winter, that you may conduct me on my way to whatever place I may go.
For I do not wish to see you now in passing; for I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permit.
But I will continue in Ephesus till Pentecost:
for a great and effective door is opened to me, and there are many adversaries.
If Timothy come, see that he be with you without fear: for he works the work of the Lord, as I also do.
Therefore, let no one despise him; but conduct him forth in peace, that he may come to me: for I look for him with the brethren.
As it respects Apollos my brother, I urged him much to go to you with the brethren, yet he was not at all inclined to go now; but he will go when he has a suitable time.
Be watchful, stand fast in the faith, be men, be resolute.
Let every thing be done by you in love.
I beseech you, brethren, (you know the house of Stephanas, that they are the first-fruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints,)
that you submit yourselves to such, and to every one that works and labors with us.
I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus; for they have supplied what was wanting on your part:
for they have refreshed my spirit, and yours. There fore, acknowledge such.
The churches of Asia salute you: Aquila and Priscilla, with the church that is in their house, send you many salutations in the Lord.
All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss.
The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand.
If any one loves not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. The Lord comes.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.