I solemnly testify therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is going to judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom,
preach the word, stand ready in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all longsuffering and teaching.
For there will be time when they will not tolerate sound doctrine, but they will accumulate teachers to themselves according to their own desires, who tickle the ear,
and will indeed turn the ear away from the truth, and will be turned aside to myths.
But be thou sober in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, bring thy ministry to fullness.
For I am already poured out a libation, and the time of my dissolution is imminent.
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith.
Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me in that day, and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing.
Hurry to come to me quickly,
for Demas forsook me having loved the present age, and he went to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
Only Luke is with me. Having taken Mark, bring him with thee, for he is useful to me for service.
But Tychicus I sent to Ephesus.
Bring the cloak that I left behind at Troas with Carpus when thou come, and the books, especially the parchments.
Alexander the coppersmith did many evil things to me. May the Lord repay him according to his works,
of whom thou also beware, for he extremely opposed our words.
At my first defense no man came with me, but all forsook me. May it not be reckoned to them.
But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the sacred message might be brought to fullness, and all the Gentiles might hear. And I was rescued out of the mouth of the lion.
And the Lord will rescue me from every evil work, and will save me for his heavenly kingdom, to whom is the glory into the ages of the ages. Truly.
Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus.
Erastus remained at Corinth, but Trophimus I left being sick at Miletus.
Hurry to come before winter. Eubulus salutes thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers.
The Lord Jesus Christ is with thy spirit. Grace is with you. Truly.