Brethren! the delight of my own heart and my supplication God-ward in their behalf, are for salvation;
For I bear them witness that they have, a zeal for God,—but not according to correct knowledge;
For, not knowing God’s righteousness and, their own, seeking to establish, unto the righteousness of God, have they not submitted;
For Christ is an end of law, for righteousness, unto every one that believeth.
For, Moses, writeth that—as touching the righteousness that is by law, The man that hath done [it], shall live thereby;
Whereas, the righteousness by faith, thus speaketh—Do not say in thy heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? That is, to bring, Christ, down,
Or, Who shall descend into the abyss? That is, to bring up, Christ, from among the dead;
But what saith it? Near thee, is the declaration, In thy mouth and in thy heart,—that is, the declaration of the faith, which we proclaim:—
That, if thou shalt confess the declaration with thy mouth—That Jesus is, Lord, and shalt believe with thy hear—That, God, raised him from among the dead, thou shalt be saved;—
For, in heart, it is to be believed unto righteousness, and, by mouth, it is to be confessed unto salvation.
For the scripture saith—No one that resteth faith thereupon, shall be put to shame?
For there is no distinction—of Jew or Greek,—for, the same [Lord], is Lord of all, being rich unto all who call upon him;
For, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved:—
How, then, shall men call upon one in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in one of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear, without one to proclaim?
And how shall they proclaim, except they be sent? Even as it is written—How beautiful the feet of them that bring glad tidings of good things!
But, not all, have become obedient unto the glad tidings;—for, Isaiah, saith—Lord! who believed what we have heard?
Hence, our faith, cometh by something heard, and, that which is heard, through a declaration of Christ.
But I say: Have they not heard? Yea indeed,—into all the earth, hath gone forth their sound, and, unto the ends of the inhabited world, their declarations.
But I say: Hath, Israel, not come to know? First, Moses, saith—I, will provoke you to jealousy on account of a no-nation, on account of an undiscerning nation, will I make you very angry.
Isaiah, however, waxeth daring, and saith,—I have been found by them who after me were not seeking, manifest have I become unto them who for me were not enquiring;
Whereas, regarding Israel, he saith—All day long, have I stretched forth my hands unto a people unyielding and contradicting.