Then, there come unto Jesus from Jerusalem Pharisees and Scribes, saying—
Wherefore do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands, when they eat bread!
But, he, answering, said unto them—Wherefore do, ye also, transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition?
For, God, said—Honour thy father and thy mother, and—He that revileth father or mother, let him, surely die!
But, ye, say—Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother—A gift! Whatsoever, out of me, thou mightest be profited,
in nowise, shall honour his father or his mother—and so ye have cancelled, the word of God, for the sake of your, tradition.
Hypocrites! well prophesied concerning you, Isaiah, saying—
This people, with the lips, do, honour, me, while, their heart, far off, holdeth from me;
But, in vain, do they pay devotions unto me, teaching, for teachings, the commandments of men.
And, calling near the multitude, he said to them—Hear and understand!
Not that which entereth into the mouth, defileth the man, but, that which proceedeth out of the mouth, the same, defileth the man,
Then, coming near, his disciples say unto him—Knowest thou, that the Pharisees, hearing the word, were caused to stumble?
And, he, answering, said—Every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted, will be uprooted:
Let them alone! they are, blind leaders; and, if the, blind, lead the, blind, both, into a ditch, will fall.
And Peter, answering, said unto him, Declare to us the parable.
And, he, said, To this moment, are, ye also, without discernment?
Perceive ye not that, every thing which entereth into the mouth, into the stomach, findeth way, and, into the draught, is passed;
while, the things which proceed out of the mouth, out of the heart, come forth, and, they, defile the man.
For, out of the heart, come forth wicked designs,—murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimonies, profane speakings:
these, are the things which defile the man, but, the eating with unwashed hands, doth not defile the man.
And, going forth from thence, Jesus retired into the parts of Tyre and Zidon.
And lo! a Canaanite woman, from those bounds, coming forth, began crying out, saying, Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter, is miserably demonized.
But, he, answered her no a word. And his disciples, coming forward began requesting him, saying—Dismiss her, because she is crying out after us.
But, he, answering, said, I was not sent forth, save unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And, she, coming, began bowing down to him, saying, Lord! help me.
But, he, answering, said, It is, not seemly, to take the loaf of, the children, and cast, to the little dogs.
And, she, said, True, Lord! [for], even the little dogs, eat of the crumbs which are falling from the table of, their masters.
Then, answering, Jesus said to her—O woman! great, is, thy faith! Be it, done, for thee, as thou desirest. And her daughter was healed, from that hour.
And, passing on from thence, Jesus came near the sea of Galilee, and, going up into the mountain, was sitting there.
And there came unto him large multitudes, having with themselves the lame, the maimed, the blind, the dumb, and many others,—and they cast them near his feet, and he cured them;
so that the multitude marvelled, seeing the dumb speaking, the lame walking, and the blind seeing,—and they glorified the God of Israel.
But, Jesus, calling near his disciples, said—My compassions are moved towards the multitude, because [even now], three days, abide they with me, and they have nothing to eat,—and, to dismiss them fasting, I am not willing, lest by any means they faint in the way.
And his disciples say unto him—Whence, to us, in a wilderness, loaves in such numbers as to fill a multitude, so great?
And Jesus saith unto them—How many, loaves have ye? And, they, said,—Seven, and a few small fishes.
And, sending word to the multitude to recline upon the ground,
he took the seven loaves, and the fishes, and, giving thanks, brake,—and began giving to his disciples, and, the disciples, to the multitudes.
And they all did eat and were filled,—and, the remainder of the broken pieces, took they up, seven hampers, full.
And, they who did eat, were four thousand men, besides women and children.
And, dismissing the multitudes, he went up into the boat,—and came into the bounds of Magadan.