False scales are an abomination to the LORD; But a perfect weight is his delight.
When pride cometh, then cometh disgrace; But with the humble is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them; But the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.
Riches do not profit in the day of wrath; But righteousness delivereth from death.
The righteousness of the good man maketh his way plain; But the wicked falleth through his wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright delivereth them; But transgressors are ensnared in their own mischief.
When the wicked man dieth, his hope cometh to an end; Yea, the expectation of the unjust cometh to an end.
The righteous man is delivered from trouble, And the wicked cometh into it in his stead.
By his mouth the vile man destroyeth his neighbor; But by the knowledge of the righteous are men delivered.
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth; And when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted; But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He who despiseth his neighbor is void of understanding; A man of discernment holdeth his peace.
He who goeth about as a tale-bearer revealeth secrets; But he who is of a faithful spirit concealeth a matter.
Where there is no counsel, the people fall; But in a multitude of counsellors there is safety.
He that is surety for another shall smart for it; But he that hateth suretyship is sure.
A graceful woman obtaineth honor, Even as strong men obtain riches.
He that doeth good to himself is a man of kindness; But he that tormenteth his own flesh is cruel.
The wicked toileth for deceitful wages; But he who soweth righteousness shall have a sure reward.
As righteousness tendeth to life, So he who pursueth evil pursueth it to his death.
The perverse in heart are the abomination of the LORD; But the upright in their way are his delight.
From generation to generation the wicked shall not go unpunished; But the posterity of the righteous shall be delivered.
As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, So is a beautiful woman who is without discretion.
The desire of the righteous is only good; But the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; And there is that withholdeth more than is right, yet he cometh to want.
The bountiful man shall be enriched, And he that watereth shall himself be watered.
Him that keepeth back corn the people curse; But blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.
He, who earnestly seeketh good, seeketh favor; But he that seeketh mischief, it shall come upon him.
He who trusteth in his riches shall fall; But the righteous shall flourish as a leaf.
He that harasseth his household shall inherit wind; And the fool shall be the servant of the wise.
The fruit of a righteous man is a tree of life; And the wise man winneth souls.
Behold, the righteous man is requited on the earth; Much more the wicked man and the sinner!