Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus,
to Timothy my beloved son; grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father, and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve with a pure conscience, after the custom of my forefathers, that, without ceasing, I have remembrance of you in my prayers night and day,
greatly desiring to see you, being mindful of your tears, that I may be filled with joy;
for I remember the unfeigned faith that is in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois, and in your mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that it dwells in you also.
Wherefore I exhort you to kindle up the gift of God that is in you by the laying on of my hands.
For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.
Be not, therefore, ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner: but jointly suffer evil in the gospel according to the power of God,
who has saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the times of the ages,
but is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has deprived death of its power, and brought life and incorruptibility to light through the gospel;
to which I have been appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles;
for which cause I also suffer these things; yet I am not ashamed: for I know in whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have intrusted to him till that day.
Hold fast the form of sound words which you have heard from me, in faithfulness and in love which is in Christ Jesus.
That good thing which was intrusted to you, keep by the Holy Spirit that dwells in us.
You know this, that all those who are in Asia have turned away from me; all those, I say, of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
May the Lord give mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain:
but when he was in Rome, he sought for me very diligently, and found me.
The Lord grant to him, that he may find mercy from the Lord in that day. And in how many things he ministered to me in Ephesus, you know very well.