In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of יהוה by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, saying,
Thus speaketh יהוה of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come, the time that יהוה's house should be built.
Then came the word of יהוה by Haggai the prophet, saying,
Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this house lie waste?
Now therefore thus saith יהוה of hosts; Consider your ways.
Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes.
Thus saith יהוה of hosts; Consider your ways.
Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith יהוה.
Ye looked for much, and, lo, it came to little; and when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why? saith יהוה of hosts. Because of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house.
Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit.
And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labour of the hands.
Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of יהוה their Elohim, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as יהוה their Elohim had sent him, and the people did fear before יהוה.
Then spake Haggai יהוה's messenger in יהוה's message unto the people, saying, I am with you, saith יהוה.
And יהוה stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work in the house of יהוה of hosts, their Elohim,
In the four and twentieth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.