And Elihu proceeded, and said:
Hear my words, ye wise men! Give ear to me, ye that have knowledge!
For the ear trieth words, As the mouth tasteth meat.
Let us examine for ourselves what is right; Let us know among ourselves what is true.
Job hath said, "I am righteous, And God refuseth me justice.
Though I am innocent, I am made a liar; My wound is incurable, though I am free from transgression."
Where is the man like Job, Who drinketh impiety like water;
Who goeth in company with evil-doers, And walketh with wicked men?
For he hath said, "A man hath no advantage, When he delighteth himself in God."
Wherefore hearken to me, ye men of understanding! Far be iniquity from God; Yea, far be injustice from the Almighty!
For what a man hath done he will requite him, And render to every one according to his deeds.
Surely God will not do iniquity, Nor will the Almighty pervert justice.
Who hath given him the charge of the earth? Or who hath created the whole world?
Should he set his heart against man, Should he take back his spirit and his breath,
Then would all flesh expire together; Yea, man would return to the dust.
If thou hast understanding, hear this! Give ear to the voice of my words!
Shall he, that hateth justice, govern? Wilt thou then condemn the just and mighty One?
Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art wicked; Or to princes, Ye are unrighteous?
How much less to him that is not partial to princes, Nor regardeth the rich more than the poor? For they are all the work of his hands.
In a moment they die; yea, at midnight Do the people stagger and pass away, And the mighty are destroyed without hand.
For his eyes are upon the ways of man; He seeth all his steps.
There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, Where evil-doers may hide themselves.
He needeth not attend long to a man, That he may go into judgment before God;
He dasheth in pieces the mighty without inquiry, And setteth up others in their stead.
Therefore he knoweth their works, And in a night he overthroweth them, so that they are destroyed.
On account of their wickedness he smiteth them, In the presence of many beholders;
Because they turned away from him, And had no regard to his ways,
And caused the cry of the poor to come before him; For he heareth the cry of the oppressed.
When he giveth rest, who can cause trouble? And when he hideth his face, Who can behold him?
So is it with nations and individuals alike! That the wicked may no more rule, And may not be snares to the people.
Surely thou shouldst say unto God, "I have received chastisement; I will no more offend;
What I see not, teach thou me! If I have done iniquity, I will do it no more."
Shall he recompense according to thy mind, Because thou refusest, or because thou choosest, and not he? Speak, if thou hast knowledge!
Men of understanding, Wise men, who hear me, will say,
"Job hath spoken without knowledge, And his words are without wisdom."
I desire that Job may be tried to the last, For answering like wicked men.
For he addeth impiety to his sin; He clappeth his hands among us, And multiplieth words against God.