AND there appeared a great sign in the heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars:
and being with child, she cried out in travailing pain, and in anguish to be delivered.
And there appeared another sign in the heaven; and lo! a great fiery dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his heads seven crowns.
And his tail drew a third part of the stars of heaven, and cast them on the earth: and the dragon placed himself before the woman who was ready to be delivered, that when she should bring forth, he might devour her babe.
And she brought forth a male child, who should rule the nations with an iron sceptre: and her infant was caught up to God, and his throne.
And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God, that she might there be fed during a thousand two hundred and sixty days.
Then was there war in the heaven: Michael and his angels warred against the dragon; and the dragon warred and his angels,
and they could not prevail; neither was there any more place found for them in the heaven.
And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, who is called the Devil, and Satan, who deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
And I heard a great voice saying in the heaven, Now is come the salvation, and the power, and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ; because the accuser of our brethren is cast down, who accused them before our God day and night.
And they have vanquished him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto death.
Therefore be exceeding glad ye heavens, and ye who dwell in them. Wo to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, knowing that he hath but a short time.
And when the dragon saw that he was cast out into the earth, he persecuted the woman which had brought forth the male child.
And there were given to the woman two wings of a great eagle, that she should fly into the wilderness, unto her place, where she is supported there for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.
And the serpent cast out after the woman, from his mouth water, as a river, that he might sweep her away with the flood.
And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
And the dragon was incensed against the woman, and went forth to make war against the remnant of her seed, who keep the commandments of God, and hold the testimony of Jesus Christ.