And after five days Ananias the high priest came down with the elders, and a certain orator, Tertullus, who appeared to the governor against Paul.
And when he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Experiencing much peace because of thee, and worthy deeds happening to this nation because of thy foresight,
we welcome, both always and everywhere, eminent Felix, with all thankfulness.
But, that I may not detain thee on more, I entreat thee in thy clemency to hear us briefly.
For we have found this man a plague, who even instigates sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes,
who also attempted to profane the temple, whom also we took,
[This verse is not in the majority of the Greek manuscripts.]
from whom thou will be able, having examined him, to learn about all these things of which we accuse him.
And the Jews also agreed, claiming to have these things this way.
And when the governor gestured to him to speak, Paul answered, Knowing for many years thou being a judge to this nation, I gladly make a defense of these things about myself,
thou being able to learn that there are for me not more than twelve days from which I went up to worship in Jerusalem.
And they found me neither in the temple disputing against any man, nor making a gang of a group, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city.
Neither can they prove against me of which things they now accuse me.
But this I confess to thee, that according to the Way that they call a sect, so serve I the paternal God, believing all things written according to the law and the prophets,
having hope toward God, which they themselves also await, to come to be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.
And in this I fashion myself, having a conscience always non-stumbling before God and men.
Now after more years I came, going to make donations to my nation, and offerings,
during which certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, not with a crowd or with a tumult,
who ought to be here before thee, and to accuse, if they would have anything against me.
Or let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found in me, having stood before the council,
or about this one voice that I cried out standing among them: About a resurrection of the dead I am judged by you this day.
Now Felix, having heard these things, having known more precisely the things about the Way, he deferred them, having said, When Lysias the chief captain comes down, I will determine the things toward you.
He also arranged for the centurion to guard Paul, and to have reduced confinement, and to forbid none of his own men to serve or to come to him.
And after some days, Felix having arrived with Drusilla, his wife being Jewish, he summoned Paul, and heard him about the faith in Christ.
And as he discoursed about righteousness, and self-control, and the judgment going to be, Felix, having become afraid, answered, Go now, and having a convenient time, I will summon thee.
He also hoped simultaneously that money would be given him by Paul so that he might free him. And so, summoning him more frequently, he conversed with him.
But two years having been fulfilled, Felix received a successor, Porcius Festus. And wanting to lay down favors to the Jews, Felix left behind Paul bound.