He who, being often reproved, hardeneth his neck, Shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.
When the righteous are powerful, the people rejoice; But when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.
He who loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father; But he who is a companion of harlots destroyeth his substance.
A king by equity establisheth a land; But he who receiveth gifts overthroweth it.
A man who flattereth his neighbor Spreadeth a net for his feet.
In the transgression of a wicked man there is a snare; But the righteous shall sing and rejoice.
A righteous man careth for the cause of the poor; A wicked man discerneth not knowledge.
Scoffers kindle a city into a flame; But wise men pacify wrath.
If a wise man contend in a cause with a fool, Whether he rage or laugh, there will be no rest.
The bloodthirsty man hateth the upright; But the righteous seek to preserve his life.
A fool letteth all his anger come out; But a wise man keepeth it back.
If a ruler listen to words of falsehood, All his servants become wicked.
The poor man and the oppressor meet together: The LORD giveth light to the eyes of them both.
The king that judgeth the poor with uprightness, His throne shall be established for ever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom; But a child left to himself bringeth shame to his mother.
When the wicked are powerful, transgression increaseth; But the righteous shall see their fall.
Chastise thy son, and he will give thee rest; Yea, he will give delight to thy soul.
Where there is no vision, the people become unruly; But he that keepeth the law, happy is he.
A servant will not be corrected by words; For, though he understand, he will not obey.
Seest thou a man hasty in his words? There is more hope of a fool than of him.
He that bringeth up his servant delicately from childhood Shall have him become a son at the last.
An angry man stirreth up strife, And a passionate man aboundeth in transgression.
A man’s pride will bring him low; But he that is of a humble spirit shall obtain honor.
He who shareth with a thief hateth himself: He heareth the curse, but maketh no discovery.
The fear of man bringeth a snare; But whoso putteth his trust in the LORD shall be safe.
Many are they who seek the ruler’s favor; But every man’s judgment cometh from the LORD.
As the unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, So the upright in his way is an abomination to the wicked.