Now concerning the spiritual things, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant.
Ye know that, while Gentiles, ye were being carried away to the voiceless idols, as ye were led.
Therefore I make known to you, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God says, Jesus is accursed, and no man can say, Jesus is Lord, except by the Holy Spirit.
Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit.
And there are varieties of services, and the same Lord.
And there are varieties of functions, but it is the same God who works all in all.
But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each man toward that which is beneficial.
For to one, the word of wisdom is given through the Spirit, and to another, the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
to a different man, faith by the same Spirit, and to another, gifts of healings by the same Spirit,
and to another, workings of miracles, and to another, prophecy, and to another, discerning of spirits, and to a different man, kinds of tongues, and to another, the interpretation of tongues.
But the one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each man individually as it wills.
For just as the body is one and has many parts, and all the parts of the body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ.
For also by one Spirit we are all immersed into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bondmen or freemen, and we were all made to drink into one Spirit.
For the body also is not one part, but many.
If the foot should say, Because I am not a hand I am not of the body, it is not by this not of the body.
And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye I am not of the body, it is not by this not of the body.
If the whole body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where would be the smelling?
But now God has placed the parts, each one of them, in the body just as he intended.
And if they were all one part, where would be the body?
But now of course there are many body-parts, but one body.
And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
Instead, much more the parts of the body that seem to be more feeble are necessary.
And those things of the body presumed to be without esteem, we place around these more abundant worth. And our unpresentable parts have more abundant propriety,
whereas our presentable parts have no need. Instead, God united the body together, having given more abundant worth to the part that lacks,
so that there would be no schisms in the body, but that the parts would have the same care for each other.
And if one part suffers, all the parts suffer together, or one part is honored, all the parts rejoice together.
Now ye are the body of Christ, and body-parts individually.
And in the church God has placed men who are first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, kinds of tongues.
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all do miracles?
Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
But be zealous for the better gifts. And yet I show you a more excellent way.