And it came to pass afterward, that he went through every city and village, preaching, and making known the good news of the kingdom of God; and the twelve were with him;
and also certain women that had been cured of evil spirits and diseases; Mary, called Magdalene, out of whom had gone seven demons,
and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod’s steward, and Susanna, and many others, who ministered to him from their means.
And when a great multitude had assembled, and they were coming to him from every city, he spoke by a parable:
The sower went forth to sow his seed; and as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and it was trodden down, and the birds of the air ate it up.
And some fell upon the rock; and when it had sprung up, it withered, because it had no moisture.
And some fell in the midst of thorns; and the thorns grew up with it and choked it.
And other seed fell into good ground, and sprung up, and produced fruit a hundred-fold. When he had said these things, he cried: He that has ears to hear, let him hear.
And the disciples asked him, saying: What does this parable mean?
He replied: To you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others in parables; that when they see, they may not see, and when they hear, they may not understand.
But the meaning of the parable is this: The seed is the word of God;
those by the wayside are they that hear; then comes the devil and takes the word from their heart, lest they should believe and be saved.
Those on the rock are they that, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, who, for awhile, believe, and in time of temptation apostatize.
That which fell among thorns are those who hear, and so conduct themselves, that they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to perfection.
But that on the good ground are those who, in a good and honest heart, hear the word, and keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience.
No one when he has lighted a lamp, covers it with a vessel, or puts it under a divan, but sets it on a lamp-stand, that they who come in may see the light.
For there is nothing concealed, that shall not be made manifest, nor hid, that shall not be known and brought into view.
Take heed, therefore, how you hear; for whoever has, to him shall be given; and whoever has not, even that which he seems to have shall be taken from him.
And his mother and his brothers came to him, but were not able to get near him on account of the multitude.
And it was told him by some that said: Thy mother and thy brothers stand without, desiring to see thee.
But he answered and said to them: My mother and my brothers are they that hear the word of God and do it.
And it came to pass, on a certain day, that he entered a ship with his disciples; and he said to them: Let us go over to the other side of the lake. And they set sail.
And while they were sailing, he fell asleep. And a storm of wind came down upon the lake, and they began to be filled, and were in danger.
And they came to him, and awoke him, saying: Master, master, we perish. But he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm.
And he said to them: Where is your faith? And being afraid, they wondered, and said one to another: Who, then, is this, that he commands even the wind and the water, and they obey him?
And they sailed to the country of the Gadarenes, which is opposite to Galilee.
And when he came out upon the land, there met him a certain man from the city, who had been possessed with demons for a long time, and who wore no clothes, and dwelt in no house, but in the tombs.
When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and said with a loud voice: What have I to do with thee, Jesus, Son of God Most High? I beseech thee, torment me not.
For he had O; commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For it had often seized upon him, and he had been bound with chains and fetters, and kept in confinement; and he broke the bonds, and was driven by the demon into the deserts.
And Jesus asked him, saying: What is your name? He answered, Legion; for many demons had entered into him.
And they be sought him, that he would not command them to go away into the abyss.
And there was in that place a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain. And they besought him to permit them to go into them. And he permitted them.
And the demons came out of the man, and went into the swine; and the herd rushed down a steep place into the lake, and were drowned.
And when those who fed them saw what was done, they fled, and told it in the city and in the country.
And they came out to see what had been done; and they came to Jesus, and saw the man out of whom the demons had gone, clothed, and in his right mind, sitting at the feet of Jesus; and they were afraid.
And those who had seen it, told them by what means the man who had been possessed with the demons, was saved.
And the whole multitude of the neighboring country of the Gadarenes besought him to depart from them; for they were seized with great fear. And he entered the ship and returned.
And the man out of whom the demons had gone, besought him that he might be with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying:
Return to your house, and tell what things God has done for you. And he went away, proclaiming through the whole city what Jesus had done for him.
And it came to pass, when Jesus returned, that the multitude received him gladly; for they were all waiting for him.
And, behold, there came a man, whose name was Jairus; and he was a ruler of the synagogue; and he fell down at the feet of Jesus, and besought him to come into his house;
for he had a daughter, his only child, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. And as he went, the multitude pressed upon him.
And a woman that had been afflicted with an issue of blood for twelve years, who had spent her whole living upon physicians, and could be cured by no one,
came behind, and touched the fringe of his mantle; and her issue of blood immediately ceased.
And Jesus said: Who touched me? When they all denied, Peter and those with him said: Master, the multitudes press upon thee, and throng thee, and dost thou say, Who touched me?
But Jesus said: Some one touched me; for I perceive that power has gone forth from me.
And the woman, seeing that she had not escaped notice, came trembling, and fell down before him, and told him, before all the people, for what cause she had touched him, and that she was immediately restored to health.
And he said to her: Take courage, daughter; your faith has saved you; go in peace.
While he was yet speaking, there came some one from the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and said to him: Your daughter is dead; trouble not the Teacher.
But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying: Fear not, only believe, and she shall be saved.
And when he came to the house, he permitted no one to go in but Peter and James and John, and the father and the mother of the child.
And all were weeping and lamenting her. But he said: Weep not; she is not dead, but sleeps.
And they derided him, knowing that she was dead.
But he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, and said: Child, arise.
And her spirit returned, and she arose immediately. And he commanded that food should be given her.
And her parents were amazed. But he charged them to tell no one what had been done.