Now concerning the collection for the saints, according to the directions which I gave to the churches of Galatia, so also do ye.
Every first day of the week let each of you lay by him something in store, according as he hath prospered; that the collections may not have to be made when I come.
And when I am with you, I will send with letters whomever you may approve to carry your bounty to Jerusalem;
and if it be worth while for me to go also, they shall go with me.
Now I will come to you, when I have passed through Macedonia; for I am about to pass through Macedonia;
and perhaps I may remain, or even spend the winter with you, that ye may set me forward on my journey whithersoever I may be going.
For I am unwilling to see you now in passing; for I hope to stay some time with you if the Lord permit.
But I shall remain at Ephesus until the Pentecost;
for a door hath been opened to me great and effective, and there are many adversaries.
Now if Timothy come, see that he be with you without fear; for he is laboring in the work of the Lord, as I am;
let no one therefore despise him. But conduct him on in peace, that he may come to me; for I am waiting for him with the brethren.
As regards Apollos, the brother, I urged him much to come to you with the brethren; and it was not at all his will to come at this time; but he will come when he hath a convenient opportunity.
Watch, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong;
let all your doings be in love.
And I exhort you, brethren,—ye know the family of Stephanas, that they are the first-fruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the service of the holy,—
that ye submit yourselves to such as they are, and to every one that worketh with us, and laboreth.
I am glad of the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus; for what was lacking on your part, they supplied;
for they refreshed my spirit and yours. Pay regard then to those that are such.
The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Prisca, with the church that is in their house, send you many salutations in the Lord.
All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss.
The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand.
If any one loveth not the Lord, let him be accursed! The Lord is at hand.
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
My love is with you all in Christ Jesus.