And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, that they set themselves apart from the holy things of the sons of Israel, and that they do not profane My holy name in what they devote to Me. I am the LORD.
Say to them, Any man of all your seed among your generations who draws near to the holy things, which the sons of Israel set apart to the Lord, if he has his uncleanness on him, that soul shall be cut off from My presence. I am the LORD.
Any man of the seed of Aaron who is leprous, or has a discharge, he shall not eat of the holy things until he is clean. And he who touches any uncleanness of a person, or a man whose semen has gone out from him,
or a man who touches any swarming thing by which he may be made unclean, or touches a man who is unclean to him, by any uncleanness he has,
the soul which has touched it shall be unclean until evening. And he shall not eat of the holy things unless he washes his flesh with water.
And when the sun is down, he shall be clean, and shall afterward eat of the holy things, because it is his food.
He shall not eat a dead body or one torn, to defile himself with them. I am the LORD.
And they shall keep My ordinance, lest they bear sin for it, that they may not die for it when they defile it. I the LORD sanctify them.
There shall no stranger eat of the holy things. A tenant of a priest, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.
But if the priest buys a soul with his silver, he shall eat of it. And one born in his house shall eat of his food.
And a priest's daughter, when she belongs to a man, a stranger, she may not eat of the heave offering of the holy things.
But if the priest's daughter is a widow, or put away, and has no child, and has returned to her father's house, as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's food. But no stranger shall eat of it.
And if a man eats a holy thing without knowing it, then he shall put the fifth part to it, and shall give to the priest with the holy thing.
And they shall not profane the holy things of the sons of Israel which they offer to the LORD,
and so load on them the iniquity of the guilt offering in their eating of their holy things. For I am the LORD who sanctifies them.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the sons of Israel, and say to them: Any man of the house of Israel, or of the strangers in Israel, who offers his sacrifices for his vows, for all his free-will offerings, which they will offer to the LORD for a burnt offering,
you shall offer at your own will a male without blemish, of the cattle, of the sheep, or of the goats.
You shall not offer that which has a blemish. For it shall not be acceptable for you.
And when a man offers a sacrifice of peace offerings to the LORD to carry out his vow, or a free-will offering in cattle or sheep, it shall be perfect to be accepted. There shall be no blemish in them.
Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a flow, or having scurvy, or scabbed, you shall not offer these to the LORD, nor make an offering by fire of them on the altar to the LORD.
As to a young bull or a sheep that is deformed or dwarfed, you may offer that for a free-will offering. But for a vow it shall not be accepted.
You shall not offer to the LORD that which is bruised or crushed, or broken or cut. You shall not make any offering of it in your land.
And you shall not offer the bread of your God out of the hand of a son of a stranger, or any of these, because their uncleanness is in them, and blemishes are in them. They shall not be accepted for you.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
When a bull or a lamb or a goat is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam. And from the eighth day and from then on, it shall be accepted for a fire offering to the LORD.
But a bull or sheep, it and its young one, you shall not kill it in one day.
And when you will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving to the LORD, offer it at your own will.
On the same day it shall be eaten up. You shall leave none of it until morning. I am the LORD.
And you shall keep My commandments, and do them. I am the LORD.
And you shall not profane My holy name. But I will be holy among the sons of Israel. I am the LORD who is sanctifying you,
who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am the LORD.