And of the blue and the purple, and the crimson, made they cloths of variegated stuff for ministering in the sanctuary,—and they made the holy garments which were for Aaron,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
So he made the ephod,—of gold, blue, and purple, and crimson, and fine twined linen,
And they did beat out the plates of gold and he proceeded to cut them into threads, to work into the midst of the blue and into the midst of the purple and into the midst of the crimson, and into the midst of the fine linen,—with the work of a skilful weaver.
Shoulder-pieces, made they thereto, for joining,—at its two edges, was it joined.
And as for the curious fastening girdle which was thereon, of the same, it was according to the working thereof, gold blue, and purple, and crimson and fine twined linen,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And they wrought the onyx stones, enclosed in ouches of gold,—graven with the engravings of a seal-ring, after the names of the sons of Israel.
And he put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, as stones of memorial for the sons of Israel,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he made the breastpiece the work of a skilful weaver like the work of the ephod,—of gold blue and purple and crimson, and fine twined linen.
Foursquare, it was doubled, made they the breastpiece,—a span, was the length thereof, and, a span, the breadth thereof, doubled.
And they set therein four rows of stones,—one row a sardius, a topaz and an emerald, the first row;
and the second row,—a carbuncle a sapphire, and a diamond;
and the third row,—an opal an agate and an amethyst;
and the fourth row, a Tarshish stone, a sardonyx, and a jasper,—enclosed in ouches of gold, when they were set
And as for the stones, after the names of the sons of Israel, they were twelve, after their names,—with the engravings of a seal-ring, each one, after his name, for the twelve tribes,
And they made, upon the breastpiece, chains like cords of wreathen work,—of pure gold.
And they made two ouches of gold, and two rings of gold,—and they placed the two rings upon the two ends of the breastpiece;
and they placed the two wreathen chains of gold upon the two rings,-upon the ends of the breastpiece;
and the other two ends of the two wreathen chains, placed they upon the two ouches,—and placed them upon the shoulder-pieces of the ephod in the forefront thereof.
And they made two rings of gold, and put on the two ends of the breastpiece, upon the border thereof, which is towards the ephod, inwards.
And they made two other rings of gold, and placed them upon the two shoulder-pieces of the ephod below on the front of the face thereof, to match the joining thereof.—above the curious girdle of the ephod,
And they bound the breastpiece by the rings thereof into the rings of the ephod, with a cord of blue that it might remain upon the curious girdle of the ephod, and the breastpiece not be removed from upon the ephod,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he made the robe of the ephod, the work of a weaver, wholly of blue;
with the opening of the robe in the midst thereof, like the opening of a coat of mail,—a border to the opening thereof round about it might not be rent open.
And they made upon the skirts of the robe, pomegranates—of blue and purple and crimson,—twined.
And they made bells of pure gold, and placed the bells in the midst of the pomegranates upon the skirts of the robe, roundabout, in the midst of the pomegranates:
a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, upon the skirts of the robe, round about, to minister in—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And they made the tunics of fine linen the work of a weaver, for Aaron and for his sons:
and the turban of fine linen, and the ornamental caps of fine linen,—and the linen drawers, of fine twined linen:
and the girdle of fine twined linen, and blue and purple and crimson the work of an embroiderer,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And they made the burnished plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote thereupon a writing, with the engravings of a seal-ring Holy unto Yahweh.
And they placed there, upon a cord of blue, to fasten it upon the turban up above, As Yahweh commanded Moses.
Thus was finished all the work of the habitation of the tent of meeting,—thus did the sons of Israel, according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so, did they.
And they brought in the habitation unto Moses, the tent, and all its furniture,—its clasps, its boards, its bars, and its pillars and its sockets;
and the covering of rams’ skins dyed red, and the covering of badgers’ skins, and the screening veil;
the ark of the testimony, with its staves,—and the propitiatory;
the table all its utensils, and the Presence-bread;
the pure lampstand the lamps thereof the lamps to be put in order, and all the utensils thereof,—and the oil for giving light;
and the altar of gold, and the oil of anointing, and the fragrant incense,—and the screen for the opening of the tent;
the altar of bronze and the grating of bronze which pertaineth thereto, the staves thereof, and all the utensils thereof,—the laver, and its stand,
the hangings of the court its pillars and its sockets, and the screen for the gate of the court, its cords and its pins,—and all the utensils for the service of the habitation for the tent of meeting;
them cloths of variegated stuff, for ministering in the sanctuary,—the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for ministering as priests.
According to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so, did the sons of Israel make all the work.
And Moses looked upon all the structure and lo! they had made it, as Yahweh had commanded, so, had they made it,—and Moses blessed them.