Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest; for in that which thou dost judge another, thou dost condemn thyself; for thou that judgest [others] doest the same things.
For we are sure that the judgment of God is according to [the] truth against those who do such things.
And dost thou think this, O man, that judgest those who do such things and [doest the same], that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?
Or dost thou despise the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, ignoring that the goodness of God leads thee to repentance?
But after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasures up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God,
who will render to everyone according to his deeds:
to those who persevered in well doing, glory and honour and incorruption, to those who seek eternal life;
but unto those that are contentious and do not obey the truth, but are persuaded by unrighteousness, indignation and wrath.
Tribulation and anguish [shall be] upon every human soul that does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek;
but glory, honour, and peace to everyone that works good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
For there is no respect of persons with God.
For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without law, and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law
(for not the hearers of the law [are] just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified;
for when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature that which is of the law, these, not having the law, are a law unto themselves;
which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, accusing and also excusing their reasonings one with another)
in the day when God shall judge that which men have covered up, according to my gospel by Jesus, the Christ.
Behold, thou doth call thyself a Jew and art supported by the law and doth glory in God
and dost know [his] will and approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law,
and art confident that thou thyself art [a] guide of the blind, [a] light of those who [are] in darkness,
an instructor of the ignorant, a teacher of children, who hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law.
Thou, therefore, who teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? Thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal?
Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? Thou that dost abhorr idols, dost thou commit sacrilege?
Thou that makest thy boast of the law, with rebellion to the law doth thou dishonour God?
For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written.
For circumcision verily profits if thou keep the law, but if thou art a rebel to the law, thy circumcision is made [into] a foreskin.
Therefore if the uncircumcised keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his foreskin be counted for circumcision?
And that which is by nature foreskin, but keeps the law perfectly, shall judge thee who with the letter and with the circumcision art rebellious to the law.
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is circumcision that which is done outwardly in the flesh;
but he [is] a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision [is that] of the heart, in the spirit [and] not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God.: