And HaShem said unto Moses: 'Say unto Aaron: Stretch forth thy hand with thy rod over the rivers, over the canals, and over the pools, and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt.'
And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.
And the magicians did in like manner with their secret arts, and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt.
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said: 'Entreat HaShem, that He take away the frogs from me, and from my people; and I will let the people go, that they may sacrifice unto HaShem.'
And Moses said unto Pharaoh: 'Have thou this glory over me; against what time shall I entreat for thee, and for thy servants, and for thy people, that the frogs be destroyed from thee and thy houses, and remain in the river only?'
And he said: 'Against to-morrow.' And he said: 'Be it according to thy word; that thou mayest know that there is none like unto HaShem our G-d.
And the frogs shall depart from thee, and from thy houses, and from thy servants, and from thy people; they shall remain in the river only.'
And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh; and Moses cried unto HaShem concerning the frogs, which He had brought upon Pharaoh.
And HaShem did according to the word of Moses; and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the courts, and out of the fields.
And they gathered them together in heaps; and the land stank.
But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart, and hearkened not unto them; as HaShem had spoken.
And HaShem said unto Moses: 'Say unto Aaron: Stretch out thy rod, and smite the dust of the earth, that it may become gnats throughout all the land of Egypt.'
And they did so; and Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and smote the dust of the earth, and there were gnats upon man, and upon beast; all the dust of the earth became gnats throughout all the land of Egypt.
And the magicians did so with their secret arts to bring forth gnats, but they could not; and there were gnats upon man, and upon beast.
Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh: 'This is the finger of G-d'; and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them; as HaShem had spoken.
And HaShem said unto Moses: 'Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh; lo, he cometh forth to the water; and say unto him: Thus saith HaShem: Let My people go, that they may serve Me.
Else, if thou wilt not let My people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies upon thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people, and into thy houses; and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.
And I will set apart in that day the land of Goshen, in which My people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end that thou mayest know that I am HaShem in the midst of the earth.
And I will put a division between My people and thy people--by to-morrow shall this sign be.'
And HaShem did so; and there came grievous swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants' houses; and in all the land of Egypt the land was ruined by reason of the swarms of flies.
And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said: 'Go ye, sacrifice to your G-d in the land.'
And Moses said: 'It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to HaShem our G-d; lo, if we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us?
We will go three days' journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to HaShem our G-d, as He shall command us.'
And Pharaoh said: 'I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to HaShem your G-d in the wilderness; only ye shall not go very far away; entreat for me.'
And Moses said: 'Behold, I go out from thee, and I will entreat HaShem that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people, tomorrow; only let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to HaShem.'
And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and entreated HaShem.
And HaShem did according to the word of Moses; and He removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; there remained not one.
And Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and he did not let the people go.