Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, any solace of charity, any fellowship of the Spirit, any feelings of commiseration:
complete my joy by having the same understanding, holding to the same charity, being of one mind, with the same sentiment.
Let nothing be done by contention, nor in vain glory. Instead, in humility, let each of you esteem others to be better than himself.
Let each of you not consider anything to be your own, but rather to belong to others.
For this understanding in you was also in Christ Jesus:
who, though he was in the form of God, did not consider equality with God something to be seized.
Instead, he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and accepting the state of a man.
He humbled himself, becoming obedient even unto death, even the death of the Cross.
Because of this, God has also exalted him and has given him a name which is above every name,
so that, at the name of Jesus, every knee would bend, of those in heaven, of those on earth, and of those in hell,
and so that every tongue would confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
And so, my most beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but even more so now in my absence: work toward your salvation with fear and trembling.
For it is God who works in you, both so as to choose, and so as to act, in accord with his good will.
And do everything without murmuring or hesitation.
So may you be without blame, simple sons of God, without reproof, in the midst of a depraved and perverse nation, among whom you shine like lights in the world,
holding to the Word of Life, until my glory in the day of Christ. For I have not run in vain, nor have I labored in vain.
Moreover, if I am to be immolated because of the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and give thanks with all of you.
And over this same thing, you also should rejoice and give thanks, together with me.
Now I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, in order that I may be encouraged, when I know the things concerning you.
For I have no one else with such an agreeable mind, who, with sincere affection, is solicitous for you.
For they all seek the things that are of themselves, not the things that are of Jesus Christ.
So know this evidence of him: that like a son with a father, so has he served with me in the Gospel.
Therefore, I hope to send him to you immediately, as soon as I see what will happen concerning me.
But I trust in the Lord that I myself will also return to you soon.
Now I have considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and co-worker, and fellow soldier, and an attendant to my needs, but your Apostle.
For certainly, he has desired all of you, and he was saddened because you had heard that he was sick.
For he was sick, even unto death, but God took pity on him, and not only on him, but truly on myself also, so that I would not have sorrow upon sorrow.
Therefore, I sent him more readily, in order that, by seeing him again, you may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.
And so, receive him with every joy in the Lord, and treat all those like him with honor.
For he was brought close even to death, for the sake of the work of Christ, handing over his own life, so that he might fulfill what was lacking from you concerning my service.