AND it came to pass afterwards, that he went through every city and village, preaching and publishing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God, and the twelve with him.
And certain women who had been cured of evil spirits and sicknesses, Mary called Magdalene, from whom seven devils had gone out.
And Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod’s lieutenant-governor, and Susanna, and many others, who ministred to his support out of their possessions.
Now when a vast multitude was collected, even those who came to him out of every city, he spake by a parable.
A sower went out to sow his seed; and as he sowed, some fell by the road side, and was trodden under foot, and the birds of the air devoured it up.
And other seed fell on a rock, and vegetating, withered because it had no moisture.
And other seed fell amidst thorns, and the thorns springing up with it, choked it.
And some fell on good ground, and shooting up, produced fruit an hundred fold. So saying, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Then his disciples asked him, saying. What might this parable mean?
And he said, To you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God; but to the rest in parables: that seeing they may not perceive, and hearing may not comprehend.
Now this is the parable: The seed is the word of God.
They by the road side, are such as hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh the word from their heart, that they should not be saved in believing.
And they on the rock, are such as when they have heard, with joy embrace the word; and these have not root, who for a time believe, and in a season of trial apostasize.
And that which fell among thorns, are they having heard, and going away, are choked by the cares, and wealth, and pleasures of life, and bring forth no perfect fruit.
But that on the good ground are they who having heard the word, retain it in a heart excellent and good, and bring forth fruit with patience.
No man lighting a lamp hides it with a cover, or putteth it under a bed, but on a stand, that they who are coming in, may see the light.
For there is nothing hid which shall not be made manifest, nor concealed, which shall not be known and brought to light.
Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not, even what he seemeth to have shall be taken away from.
Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come near him because of the crowd.
And it was told him, saying, Thy mother and thy brethren are standing without, desirous of seeing thee.
Then he answered and said to them, My mother and my brethren are they, who hear the word of God, and practise it.
And it came to pass on one of the days, that he went himself into a ship, and his disciples, and said unto them, Let us pass over to the farther side of the lake. And they set fail.
And while they were on the passage, he went to sleep: and a hurricane of wind rushed down on the lake; and they were filled with water, and imminent danger.
Then they came and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we are perishing. Then arising, he issued his command to the wind, and the billows of water, and they subsided, and there was a calm.
And he said to them, Where is your faith? And they feared and were astonished, saying one to another, Well! what a man is this! that he commands even the winds and the sea, and they obey him.
And they sailed over unto the region of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee.
And as he landed, there met him a certain man from the city, who had devils for a long while, and kept no clothes on him, and never abode in a house, but in the tombs.
But when he saw Jesus, roaring out, he fell down before him, and said with a loud voice, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God Most High? I pray thee, torment me not.
For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man; for many times it had seized on him; and though under a guard, and bound with chains and fetters; yet bursting the bonds, he was driven by the devil into the desert places.
Then Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? and he said, Legion: for many devils were entered into him.
And he besought him that he would not order them to go into the abyss.
Now a herd of many swine was there feeding on the mountain; and they besought him that he would permit them to enter into them. And he permitted them.
Then the devils going out of the man, entered into the swine; and the herd rushed down a precipice into the lake, and was suffocated.
But when those who fed them saw what was done they fled, and went and told it in the city and in the country places.
And they came out to see what had happened; and they came to Jesus, and found the man sitting, from whom the devils were gone out, clothed, and in his sound mind, at the feet of Jesus; and they were afraid.
Then they also who had seen how the demoniac was recovered, told them.
And the whole multitude of the country around the Gadarenes, entreated him to depart from them; for they were seized with great terror: and he embarked on the vessel, and returned.
And the man out of whom the devils had gone, besought him to be with him; but Jesus sent him away, saying,
Return to thy house, and declare what things God hath done for thee. And he went away, and published through the whole city what things Jesus had done for him.
And it came to pass, when Jesus returned, the people welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.
And, behold, there came a man whose name was Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and falling at the feet of Jesus, he entreated him to come to his house;
for he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying: and as he was going, the multitude thronged him.
And a woman, who had a flux of blood, for twelve years, who had spent all her substance on physicians, and could not get a cure from any;
coming behind him, touched the fringe of his garment; and instantly the flux of her blood stopped.
And Jesus said, Who touched me? And when all denied, Peter, and those who were with him, said, Master, the multitudes throng and press thee, and sayest thou, Who hath touched me?
Then said Jesus, Some person hath touched me, for I know that miraculous power is gone out from me.
Then the woman seeing she was not hid, came trembling, and falling down before him, declared to him before all the people, for what cause she had touched him; and how she was cured instantaneously.
Then he said unto her, Be of good cheer, daughter, thy faith hath made thee well; go in peace.
And while he was yet speaking, a person came to the ruler of the synagogue, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead, give the master no further trouble.
Then Jesus hearing it, addressed him, saying, Fear not, only believe, and she shall be saved.
And entering into the house, he suffered no person to come in, but Peter, and James, and John, and the father and mother of the child.
Now all were weeping and lamenting her: and he said, Weep not, she is not dead, but asleep.
And they derided him, for they knew that she was dead.
And he put them all without, and taking her by the hand, cried, saying, Maid, arise!
And her spirit returned, and she immediately arose; and he commanded to give her something to eat.
And her parents were struck with amazement. But he enjoined them to tell no man what was done.