And the famine was severe in the land.
And it happened, when they had eaten up the grain which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said to them, Go again, buy us a little food.
And Judah spoke to him, saying, The man solemnly protested to us, saying, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.
If you will send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food.
But if you will not send him, we will not go down. For the man said to us, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.
And Israel said, Why have you dealt ill with me, to tell the man whether you had yet a brother?
And they said, The man asked us strictly of our state and of our kindred, saying, Is your father still alive? Have you yet another brother? And we told him according to the tenor of these words. Could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down?
And Judah said to Israel his father, Send the boy with me, and we will arise and go, so that we may live and not die, both we and you, also our little ones.
I will be surety for him. You shall require him of my hand. If I do not bring him to you and set him before you, I shall be a sinner against you all the days.
For unless we had lingered, surely now we would have returned the second time.
And their father Israel said to them, If it be so now, do this. Take of the best fruits of the land in your vessels, and bring a present down to the man, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds.
And take double silver in your hand, and the silver that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand. Perhaps it was an oversight.
Take also your brother, and arise, go again to the man.
And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, so that he may send away your other brother and Benjamin. If I am bereaved, I am bereaved.
And the men took that present, and they took double silver in their hand, and Benjamin. And they rose up and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph.
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of his house, Bring the men into the house, and kill an animal and make ready. For the men shall dine with me at noon.
And the man did as Joseph said. And the man brought the men into Joseph's house.
And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's house. And they said, Because of the silver that was returned in our sacks at the first time we are brought in, to throw himself on us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.
And they came near to the man over Joseph's house, and they talked with him at the door of the house,
and said, Oh sir, we indeed came down the first time to buy food.
And it happened, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, every man's silver was in the mouth of his sack, our silver in full weight. And we have brought it again in our hands.
And we have brought down other silver in our hands to buy food. We cannot tell who put our silver in our sacks.
And he said, Peace to you, do not fear. Your God, and the God of your father, has given you treasure in your sacks. I had your silver. And he brought Simeon out to them.
And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave them water, and they washed their feet. And he gave fodder to their asses.
And they made ready the presents for the coming of Joseph at noon. For they heard that they should eat bread there.
And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth.
And he asked them as to their welfare, and said, Is your father well, the old man of whom you spoke? Is he still alive?
And they answered, Your servant, our father, is in good health. He is still alive. And they bowed down their heads and fell before him.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother of whom you spoke to me? And he said, God bless you, my son.
And Joseph made haste, for his bowels yearned toward his brother. And he sought a place to weep. And he entered into his room and wept there.
And he washed his face, and went out, and controlled himself, and said, Set the bread on.
And they set it on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians may not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an abomination to the Egyptians.
And they sat before him, the first-born according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth. And the men marveled at one another.
And one took portions to them from before him. But Benjamin's portion was five times as much as any of theirs. And they drank, and were merry with him.