Now after these things the Lord also appointed seventy other men, and sent them by twos before his face into every city and place where he himself was going to come.
Therefore he said to them, The harvest indeed is plentiful, but the workmen are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth workmen into his harvest.
Go ye. Behold, I send you forth as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Carry no bag, no pouch, no shoes, and greet no man on the way.
And into whatever house ye enter, first say, Peace to this house.
And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him, and if not, it will return to you.
And remain in the same house eating and drinking from their things, for the workman is worthy of his wage. Do not depart from house to house.
And into whatever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat the things that are set before you.
And heal the weak in it, and say to them, The kingdom of God has come near to you.
But into whatever city ye enter, and they will not receive you, after departing into the thoroughfares of it, say,
Even the dust that clings on us from your city, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know ye this, that the kingdom of God has come near to you.
I say to you, that it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom, than for that city.
Woe to thee, Chorazin! Woe to thee, Bethsaida! Because if the mighty works were done in Tyre and Sidon, which were done in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment, than for you.
And thou, Capernaum, which was exalted to the sky, will be thrust down to Hades.
He who hears you hears me, and he who rejects you rejects me, and he who rejects me rejects him who sent me.
And the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are made subject to us in thy name.
And he said to them, I beheld Satan fallen as lightning from the sky.
Behold, I give you authority to tread over serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and, no, nothing will harm you.
Nevertheless do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are made subject to you, but rejoice because your names are written in the heavens.
In the same hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit, and said, I thank thee, Father, Lord of the heaven and the earth, that thou hid these things from the wise and astute, and revealed them to the childlike. Yea, Father, because it became pleasing this way in thy sight.
And having turned to the disciples, he said, All things were delivered to me by my Father. And no man knows who the Son is, except the Father, and who the Father is, except the Son, and he to whomever the Son wants to reveal him.
And having turning toward the disciples in private, he said, Blessed are the eyes that see what ye see.
For I say to you, that many prophets and kings desired to see what ye see, and did not see, and to hear what ye hear, and did not hear.
And behold, a certain lawyer stood up testing him, and saying, Teacher, having done what, would I inherit eternal life?
And he said to him, What is written in the law? How read thou?
And having answered, he said, Thou shall love the Lord thy God from thy whole heart, and from thy whole soul, and from thy whole strength, and from thy whole mind, and thy neighbor as thyself.
And he said to him, Thou answered correctly. Do this and thou will live.
But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor?
And having replied, Jesus said, A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho. And he encountered bandits, who also, having stripped him and having beat him, departed having left him being half dead.
And by coincidence a certain priest was going down on that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
And likewise also a Levite who happened upon the place, having come, and having looked, passed by on the other side.
But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to him, and when he saw him, felt compassion.
And having come, he wrapped up his wounds, pouring on olive oil and wine. And having set him on his own beast, he brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
And on the morrow when departing, after taking out two denarii, he gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him, and whatever thou might spend more, I will repay thee at my return.
Which therefore, of these three, appears to thee to have become neighbor to the man who fell among the bandits?
And he said, He who did mercy with him. Therefore Jesus said to him, Go, and do thou likewise.
And it came to pass as they went, he also entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
And she was sister to this woman called Mary, who also, having sat at Jesus' feet, was listening to his word.
But Martha was encumbered about much serving. And having stood near, she said, Lord, do thou not care that my sister left me behind to serve alone? Speak to her therefore that she may help me.
But having answered, Jesus said to her, Martha, Martha, thou are anxious and troubled about many things,
but one thing is necessary, and Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken away from her.