And, the Pharisees and Sadducees coming near, putting him to the test, requested him, a sign out of the heaven, to shew unto them.
But, he, answering said unto them—[[When evening cometh ye say, Fair! for fiery is the heaven;
And at morn, To-day, a storm! for fiery, and yet sad, is the heaven. The face of the heaven indeed, ye learn to distinguish,—but, the signs of the times, ye cannot.]]
A wicked and adulterous generation, a sign, doth seek after, and, a sign, will not be given it,—save the sign of Jonah. And, leaving them behind, he departed.
And the disciples coming, to the other side, had forgotten to take loaves.
And, Jesus, said unto them—Mind! and beware, of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And, they, began to deliberate among themselves, saying—Because, loaves, we took not.
And, observing it, Jesus said—Why are ye deliberating among yourselves, ye little-of-faith! because, loaves, ye have not?
Not yet, perceive ye, neither remember,—The five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets ye received?
Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many hampers ye received?
How is it ye perceive not, that, not concerning loaves, spake I unto you,—but beware of the leaven, of the Pharisees and Sadducees?
Then, understood they that he did not bid them beware of [the] leaven [of loaves] but of, the teaching, of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And, Jesus coming into the parts of Caesarea of Philip, began questioning his disciples, saying—Who are men saying that, the Son of Man, is?
And, they, said—Some, indeed, John the Immerser, and, others, Elijah,—but, others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
He saith unto them—But who say, ye, that I am?
And, Simon Peter, answering, said—Thou, art the Christ, the Son of the Living God.
And Jesus, answering, said to him—Happy, art thou, Simon Bar-yona,—because, flesh and blood, revealed it not unto thee, but my Father who is in the heavens.
And, I also, unto thee, say—Thou, art Peter,—and, upon this rock, will I build my assembly, and, the gates of hades, shall not prevail against it.
I will give thee, the keys of the kingdom of the heavens,—and, whatsoever thou shalt bind upon the earth, shall be bound in the heavens, and, whatsoever thou shalt loose upon the earth, shall be loosed in the heavens.
Then, straitly charged he the disciples, lest, to any man, they should say—He, is, the Christ.
From that time, began Jesus Christ to be pointing out to his disciples that he must needs, into Jerusalem, go away, and, many things, suffer, from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain,—and on, the third day, arise.
And, taking him aside, Peter began to rebuke him, saying—Mercy on thee Lord! In nowise, shall, this, befall thee.
But, he, turning, said to Peter—Withdraw behind me, Satan! A snare, art thou of mine, because thou art not regarding the things of God, but the things of men.
Then, Jesus said unto his disciples—If any one intendeth, after me, to come, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and be following me;
For, whosoever intendeth, his life, to save, shall lose it,—but, whosoever shall lose his life, for my sake, shall find it.
For what shall a man be profited, though, the whole world, he gain, and, his life, he forfeit? Or what shall a man give, in exchange for his life?
For the Son of Man is destined to be coming, in the glory of his Father, with his messengers,—and, then, will he give back unto each one, according to his practice.
Verily, I say unto you—There are some of those, here standing, who, indeed, shall in nowise taste of death, until they see the Son of Man, coming in his kingdom.