Now, Moses, was shepherding the flock of Jethro his father-in-law priest of Midian,—so he led forth the flock behind the desert, and came in unto the mountain of God to Horeb.
Then appeared the messenger of Yahweh unto him, in a flame of fire from the midst of the thorn-bush,—so he looked and lo! the thorn-bush burning with fire and yet the thorn-bush, was not consumed.
And, Moses said, Let me turn aside, pray, and see this great sight,—why the thorn-bush, doth not burn up.
And Yahweh saw, that he turned aside to see,—so God called unto him out of the midst of the thorn-bush, and said—Moses! Moses! And he said—Behold me!
And he said—Do not draw nigh hither,—put off thy sandals from thy feet, for, the place whereon thou art standing is holy ground.
And he said—I, am the God of thy father, God of Abraham, God of Isaac and God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God.
Then said Yahweh, I have, seen, the humiliation of my people, who are in Egypt,—and their outcry, have I heard, by reason of their task-masters, for I know their pains;
therefore have I come down to deliver them from the hand of the Egyptians, and to take them up out of that land, into a land good and large, into a land flowing with milk and honey,—into the place of the Canaanite and the Hittite, and the Amorite and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Now, therefore, lo! the outcry of the sons of Israel, hath come in unto me,—moreover also, I have seen the oppression, wherewith the Egyptians are oppressing them.
Now, therefore, come thou! that I may send thee unto Pharaoh,—and bring thou forth my people—the sons of Israel—out of Egypt.
And Moses said unto God, Who am, I, that I should go unto Pharaoh,—and that I should bring forth the sons of Israel out of Egypt?
And he said—I will be with thee, and, this, to thee, [shall be] the sign, that, I have sent thee,—When thou bringest forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall do service unto God, upon this mountain.
And Moses said unto God—Lo! as surely as, I, go in unto the sons of Israel, and say unto them, The God of your fathers, hath sent me unto you, So surely will they say unto me—What is his name? What shall I say unto them?
And God said unto Moses, I Will Become whatsoever I please, And he said—Thus, shalt thou say to the sons of Israel, I Will Become hath sent me unto you.
And God said yet further unto Moses—Thus shalt thou say unto the sons of Israel, Yahweh God of your fathers. God of Abraham God of Isaac and God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you. This, is my name to times age-abiding, And, this, my memorial to generation after generation.
Go—and thou shalt gather together the elders of Israel and shalt say unto them-Yahweh God of your fathers, hath appeared unto me, the God of Abraham Isaac, and Jacob saying,—I am, concerned, for you, and for what is done to you in Egypt;
therefore do I say—I will bring you up out of the humiliation of Egypt, into the land of the Canaanite and the Hittite, and the Amorite and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite,—into a land flowing with milk and honey.
So will they hearken to thy voice,—and thou shalt go in—thou, and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt and ye shall say unto him—Yahweh, God of the Hebrews, hath fallen in with us, Now, therefore let us go, we pray thee, a journey of three days into the desert, that we may sacrifice to Yahweh, our God.
But, I, know, that the king of Egypt will not suffer you to go,—not even by a firm hand.
So then I will put forth my hand and smite Egypt, with all my wonders, which I will do in the midst thereof,—and, after that, he will send you forth.
Thus will I give favour to this people in the eyes of the Egyptians,—so shall it come to pass that when ye do go, ye shall not go empty;
but every woman shall ask of her neighbour, and of her that sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold and mantles,—and ye shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters, so shall ye spoil the Egyptians.