The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by the hand of Malachi:
I have loved you, says Jehovah. But you say, In what way have You loved us? Was not Esau the brother to Jacob? Yet Jehovah declares, I loved Jacob,
and I have hated Esau and have made his mountains a desolation, and his inheritance to be for the jackals of the wilderness.
If Edom says, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the ruined places; so says Jehovah of hosts: They shall build, but I will tear down. And they shall call them the region of wickedness, and the people with whom Jehovah is indignant until forever.
And your eyes shall see, and you shall say, Jehovah will be magnified beyond the border of Israel.
A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a father, where is My honor? And if I am a master, where is My fear? says Jehovah of hosts to you, O priests who despise My name. But you say, In what have we despised Your name?
You are offering defiled food on My altar, and you say, In what have we defiled You? It is in your saying, The table of Jehovah, it is to be despicable.
And if you offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if you offer the lame and the sick, is it not evil? Bring it now to your governor. Will he accept you or lift up your face? says Jehovah of hosts.
And now entreat the face of God, that He favor us. This has been by your hands; will He lift up your faces? says Jehovah of hosts.
Who is even among you that will shut the doors, and you not kindle fire on My altar in vain? There is no delight to Me in you, says Jehovah of hosts. I will not be pleased with a food offering from you.
For from the east to the west, My name shall be great among the nations, and everywhere incense shall be offered to My name; and a pure food offering; for My name shall be great among the nations, says Jehovah of hosts.
But you are profaning it when you say, The table of the Lord, it is polluted; and its fruit, His food is despicable.
And you have said, Behold, what weariness! And you have sniffed at it, says Jehovah of hosts. And you bring plunder, and the lame, and the sick; and you bring the meal offering. Should I accept it from your hand? says Jehovah.
But cursed be a deceiver and there is a male in his flock, yet he vows it , but he sacrifices a blemished one to the Lord. For I am a great King, says Jehovah of hosts, and My name is feared among the nations.