And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, prophesy and say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Howl, Alas for the day!
For the day is near, even the day of Jehovah is near, a day of clouds; it shall be the time of the nations.
And the sword shall come on Egypt, and anguish shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt. And they shall take her host, and her foundations shall be razed.
Ethiopia, and Lydia, and Lud, and all the mixed people, and Chub, and the sons of the land of the covenant with them, shall fall by the sword.
So says Jehovah: Even those leaning on Egypt shall fall, and the pride of her power shall go down. From Migdol to Syene they shall fall with her by the sword, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And they will be ruined amidst the wasted lands. And her cities shall be in the midst of the desolated cities.
And they shall know that I am Jehovah when I set a fire in Egypt, and all her helpers shall be crushed.
In that day messengers shall go out from before Me in ships, to terrify the confident Ethiopia, and anguish shall be on them as on the day of Egypt. For behold it is coming.
So says the Lord Jehovah: I will make the multitude of Egypt cease by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.
He and his people with him, awesome of the nations, shall be brought to corrupt the land. And they shall draw their swords against Egypt and fill the lands with the slain.
And I will make the rivers dry and sell the land into the hand of evil ones. And I will waste the land and her fullness by the hand of strangers. I, Jehovah, have spoken.
So says the Lord Jehovah: I will also destroy the idols, and I will make vanities cease from Noph. And there shall not any longer be a prince of the land of Egypt. And I will put fear in the land of Egypt.
And I will make Pathros desolate, and I will set a fire in Zoan, and I will do judgments in Thebes.
And I will pour my fury on Sin, the strength of Egypt. And I will cut off the multitude of Thebes.
And I will set a fire in Egypt; Sin shall greatly anguish, and Thebes shall be broken through, and Noph shall have daily woes.
The young men of Aven and Pibeseth shall fall by the sword, and they shall go into captivity.
At Tahpanhes, the day will be held back when I shatter there the yokes of Egypt. And the pride of her strength shall cease in her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity.
And I will do judgments in Egypt. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
And it happened in the eleventh year, in the first month in the seventh of the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, I have shattered the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt. and behold, it shall not be bound up to give healing, to set a bandage to bind it, to make it strong to handle the sword.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and I will shatter his arms, the strong one, and the shattered one. And I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
And I will scatter Egypt among the nations, and will sow them through the lands.
And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put My sword in his hand. But I will shatter the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan with the groanings of the slain before him.
But I will make the arms of the king of Babylon stronger, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall. And they shall know that I am Jehovah when I put My sword into the king of Babylon's hand. And he will stretch it against the land of Egypt.
And I will scatter Egypt among the nations and sow them among the lands. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.