Then came near the daughters of Zelophehad, son of Hepher, son of Gilead son of Machir son of Manasseh pertaining to the families of Manasseh, son of Joseph,—these being the names of his daughters, Mahlah Noah and Hoglah and Milcah, and Tirzah.
So they stood before Moses and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes, and all the assembly,—at the entrance of the tent of meeting, saying:
Our father, died in the desert, although, he, was not among the assembly that conspired against Yahweh, in the assembly of Korah,—but, in his own sin, died he; and sons, had he none.
Wherefore should the name of our father be withdrawn out of the midst of his family, because he had no son? Give ye unto us a possession, in the midst of the brethren of our father.
And Moses brought near their cause before Yahweh.
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
A right thing, are the daughters of Zelophehad speaking: Thou shalt, surely give, them a possession for an inheritance, in the midst of the brethren of their father,—and shalt cause the inheritance of their father to pass over unto them.
And unto the sons of Israel, shalt thou speak, saying,—When, any man, shall die, having no son, then shall ye cause his inheritance to pass over to his daughter.
And, if he hath no daughter, then shall ye give his inheritance unto his, brethren.
And if he hath no brethren, then shall ye give his inheritance unto the brethren of his father.
And, if his father hath no brethren, then shall ye give his inheritance unto his blood-relation that is near unto him of his family, and he shall possess it,—So shall it serve the sons of Israel as a regulative statute, As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And Yahweh said unto Moses, Go up into this mount of Abarim,—and see, the land which I have given unto the sons of Israel;
And, when thou hast seen it, then shalt thou also be withdrawn unto thy kinsfolk,—as Aaron thy brother was withdrawn;
because ye resisted my bidding—in the desert of Zin when the assembly contended,—that ye should hallow me regarding the waters, before their eyes,—the same, were the waters of Meribah, of Kadesh in the desert of Zin.
Then spake Moses unto Yahweh saying:
Let Yahweh, God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the assembly;
who may go out before them and who may come in before them, and who may take them out and who may bring them in,—that the assembly of Yahweh become not as sheep that have no shepherd.
And Yahweh said unto Moses: Take thee Joshua son of Nun, a man in whom is spirit,—then shalt thou lean thy hand upon him;
and shalt cause him to stand before Eleazar the priest, and before all the assembly,—and shalt charge him before their eyes;
and shalt put some of thine honour upon him,—that all the assembly of the sons of Israel may hearken.
And, before Eleazar the priest, shall he stand, and shall ask by him for the decision of the Lights, before Yahweh,—at the bidding thereof, shall they go out, and at the bidding thereof, shall they come in—he, and all the sons of Israel with him, even all the assembly.
And Moses did as Yahweh commanded him,—and took Joshua, and caused him to stand before Eleazar the priest, and before all the assembly;
and leaned his hands upon him and charged him,—As Yahweh spake by the hand of Moses.