Joash was a son of seven years when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Zibiah of Beersheba.
And Joash did the right in the eyes of Jehovah all the days of Jehoiada the priest.
And Jehoiada took two wives for him, and he fathered sons and daughters.
And after this it happened; it had been in the heart of Joash to renew the house of Jehovah;
and he gathered the priests and the Levites, and said to them, Go out to the cities of Judah, and gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God fully from year to year; and you shall do the matter quickly. But the Levites did not act quickly.
And the king called for Jehoiada the head, and said to him, Why have you not required the Levites to bring in out of Judah and out of Jerusalem the tribute of Moses, the servant of Jehovah, and of the congregation of Israel, for the tabernacle of the testimony?
For the sons of Athaliah, the wicked one, have broken up the house of God, and also they have prepared all the holy things of the house of Jehovah for the Baals.
And the king commanded, and they made one chest, and put it at the gate of the house of Jehovah outside;
and they gave a call in Judah and in Jerusalem to bring in to Jehovah the tribute of Moses, the servant of God, laid on Israel in the wilderness.
And all the leaders, and all the people rejoiced; and they brought in and threw into the chest until it was finished.
And it happened, at the time one brought in the chest to the king's overseers, by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that the silver was much a scribe of the king came in, and an officer of the head priest, and they emptied the chest and took it up and returned it to its place; so they did day by day, and gathered much silver.
And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who did the work of the service of the house of Jehovah; and they hired stone cutters and carpenters to repair the house of Jehovah; and also artisans in iron and bronze to strengthen the house of Jehovah.
And the workmen did the work and the repair work prospered in their hands; and they set up the house of God by its proper measure, and made it strong.
And when they had finished, they brought the rest of the silver in before the king and Jehoiada; and they made vessels of it for the house of Jehovah, vessels of serving, and of offering, and spoons, even vessels of gold and silver; and they offered burnt offerings in the house of Jehovah continually all the days of Jehoiada.
And Jehoiada was old and satisfied with days, and died, a son of a hundred and thirty years at his death.
And they buried him in the city of David with the kings, for he had done good in Israel, and with God, and his house.
And after the death of Jehoiada, the leaders of Judah came in and bowed themselves to the king; then the king listened to them.
And they forsook the house of Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and served the Asherah poles and the idols; and there was wrath on Judah and Jerusalem because of this guilt.
And He sent prophets among them to bring them back to Jehovah; and they testified against them, but they did not listen.
And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, and he stood before the people and said to them, So says God, Why do you transgress the commandments of Jehovah, and do not prosper? Because you have forsaken Jehovah, He has forsaken you.
And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones by the command of the king, in the court of the house of Jehovah.
And Joash the king did not remember the kindness that Jehoiada his father had done to him, and killed his son. And when he died, he said, Jehovah shall seek you out .
And it happened, at the turn of the year, that the army of Syria came up against him; and they came into Judah and Jerusalem and destroyed all the leaders of the people from among the people; and they sent all their spoil to the king of Damascus.
For with few men the army of Syria came in, and Jehovah gave a mighty force for multitude into their hand, because they had forsaken Jehovah, the God of their fathers. And they executed judgment against Joash.
And when they departed from him (they left him with many diseases) his own servants conspired against him, because of the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and killed him on his bed; and he died. And they buried him in the city of David, and did not bury him in the graves of the kings.
And these are those who conspired against him: Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess.
As to his sons, and the greatness of the burdens upon him, and the foundation of the house of God, behold, they are written in the inquiry of the Book of the Kings. And his son Amaziah reigned in his place.