For the Law had a shadow of the coming good things, not the image itself of those things. Appearing year by year with the same sacrifices, which they offer continually, they never are able to perfect the ones drawing near.
Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, because those serving did not still have conscience of sins, having once for all been cleansed?
But in these there is a remembrance of sins year by year,
for it is not possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
For this reason, coming into the world, He says, "Sacrifice and offering You did not desire, but You prepared a body for Me.
You did not delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices concerning sins."
"Then I said, Lo, I come, in the heading of the Book, it was written concerning Me, to do Your will, O God." LXX-Psa. 39:7 -9; MT-Psa. 40:6 -8
Above, saying, "You did not desire nor were pleased with sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings and sacrifices concerning sins," (which are offered according to the Law),
then He said, "Lo, I come to do Your will, O God." He takes away the first in order that He may set up the second;
by which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And indeed every priest stands day by day ministering, and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
But He, offering but one sacrifice for sins, "sat down" in perpetuity " at the right hand " of God,
from then on expecting "until His enemies are placed as a footstool" of His feet. Psa. 110:1
For by one offering He has perfected in perpetuity the ones being sanctified.
And the Holy Spirit witnesses to us also. For after having said before,
"This is the covenant which I will covenant to them after those days, says the Lord: Giving My laws on their hearts, and I will write them on their minds;"
also He adds , "I will not at all still remember their sins" and their lawless deeds. LXX-Jer. 38:33, 34 MT-Jer. 31:33, 34
But where remission of these is , there is no longer offering concerning sins.
Then, brothers, having confidence for the entering of the Holy of Holies by the blood of Jesus,
which He consecrated for us, a new and living way through the veil; that is, His flesh;
and having a Great Priest over the house of God,
let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, our hearts having been sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our body having been washed in pure water;
let us hold fast the confession of the hope without yielding, for He who has promised is faithful.
And let us consider one another, to incitement of love and of good works,
not forsaking the assembling together of ourselves, as is the custom of some, but exhorting, and by so much more as you see the Day drawing near.
For if we are willfully sinning after receiving the full knowledge of the truth, there remains no more sacrifice concerning sins,
but a certain fearful expectation of judgment and "zealous fire being about to consume the adversaries." Isa. 26:11
If anyone did not regard the Law of Moses, that one dies without pities on " the word of two or three witnesses." Deut. 17:6
How much worse punishment do you think will be thought worthy to receive , the one trampling the Son of God, and having counted common the blood of the covenant in which he was sanctified, and having insulted the Spirit of grace?
For we know Him who has said, "Vengeance belongs to Me; I will repay," says the Lord. And again, "The Lord will judge His people." Deut. 32:35, 36
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But call to mind the former days in which being enlightened you endured much conflict of sufferings;
indeed being exposed both to reproaches and to afflictions; and having become partners of those so living.
For also you suffered together in my bonds; and you accepted the seizure of your possessions with joy, knowing yourselves to have a better and abiding possession in Heaven.
Then do not throw away your confidence, which has great reward.
For you have need of patience, that having done the will of God you may obtain the promise.
For, yet a very little and the One coming will come, "and will not delay." Hab. 2:3
"But the just shall live by faith;" "and if he draws back," "My soul is not pleased in him." Hab. 2:4
But we are not of those withdrawing to destruction, but of faith, to the preservation of the soul.