And all the publicans and the sinners were drawing near to him, to hear him.
And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.
And he spoke to them this parable, saying,
What man of you having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he findeth it?
And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And when he hath come home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost.
I say to you, that in like manner there will be joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety-nine righteous men who have no need of repentance.
Or what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and search carefully till she findeth it?
And when she hath found it, she calleth together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I lost.
I say to you, that thus there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.
He said also, A certain man had two sons.
And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of the property that falleth to me. And he divided to them his living.
And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together, and went abroad into a far country; and there wasted his substance in riotous living.
And when he had spent all, there arose a great famine in that country; and he began to be in want.
And he went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
And he longed to fill himself with the husks that the swine ate; and no one gave to him.
And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father’s have bread enough and to spare, and I perish here with hunger!
I will arise and go to my father, and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven and before thee;
I am no longer worthy to be called thy son; make me as one of thy hired servants.
And he arose, and went to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and was moved with compassion, and ran and fell on his neck, and kissed him.
And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven and before thee; I am no longer worthy to be called thy son.
But the father said to his servants, Bring out the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and sandals on his feet.
And bring the fatted calf; kill it, and let us eat and make merry.
For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to make merry.
Now his elder son was in the field; and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
And calling one of the servants, he inquired what these things meant.
And he said to him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.
But he was angry, and would not go in; and his father came out, and entreated him.
And he answering said to his father, Lo! for so many years have I served thee, and never transgressed thy command; and yet to me thou never gavest a kid, that I might make merry with my friends.
But as soon as this thy son came, who devoured thy living with harlots, thou didst kill for him the fatted calf.
And he said to him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine.
It was meet that we should make merry and be glad; for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.