In the twenty-fifth year of our exile at the beginning of the year. on the tenth of the month in the fourteenth year, after the city was smitten, on this selfsame day, came upon me the hand of Yahweh, and he brought me thither:
In the visions of God, he brought me into the land of Israel,—and set me down upon an exceeding high mountain, and thereupon, was, as it were the structure of a city, on the south.
And when he brought me thither, then lo! a man whose appearance was like the appearance of bronze, with a flax-cord in his hand and measuring reed,—and he was standing in the gate.
And the man spake unto me, saying. Son of man See with thine eyes And with thine ears, hear thou And apply thy heart to whatsoever I am about to show thee, For to the intent it might be shown thee, hast thou been brought hither,- Declare all that thou seest unto the house of Israel.
And lo a wall on the outside of the house round about on every side,—and in the hand of the man, was the measuring reed six cubits by the cubit, and a handbreadth, so he measured the breadth of the enclosing-wall, one reed, and the height one reed.
Then came he unto the gate that looked toward the east, and went up by the steps thereof,—and measured the threshold of the gate one reed broad, and the other threshold one reed broad.
And the lodge was one reed long, and one reed broad, and between the lodges, was a space of five cubits,—and the threshold of the gate from beside the porch of the gate inwards, was one reed.
Then measured he the porch of the gate inwards, one reed.
Then measured he the porch of the gate, eight cubits, and the projections thereof two cubits,—and the porch of the gate was within,
And, the lodges of the gate that was towards the east, were three on this side and three on that side, one measure, had they three,—and one measure, had the projections on this side and on that side.
Then measured he the breadth of the entrance of the gate, ten cubits—the length of the gate, thirteen cubits,
And the space before the lodges was one cubit, and one cubit, the space on that side; and the lodge itself was six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.
Then measured he the gate, from the roof of this lodge to the roof of that, a breadth of twenty-five cubits,—entrance over against entrance.
Then measured he the porch, twenty cubits,—even unto the projection of the court, the lodges of the gate round about on every side;
and, from the face of the gate outwards, unto the face of the porch of the inner gate, was fifty cubits.
And latticed windows had the lodges, even towards their projections within the gate round about on every side, and, so, had the recesses, —and windows round about on every side inwards, and against each projection, palm trees.
Then he brought me into the outer court, and lo! chambers and a tesselated pavement, made to the court round about on every side,—thirty chambers against the pavement,
And the pavement, was against the side of the gates, answering to the length of the gates,—the lower pavement,
Then measured he the breadth, from the front of the lower gate, to the front of the inner court on the outside one hundred cubits,—to the east and the north.
And as for the gate which looked towards the north, pertaining to the outer court, he measured the length thereof, and the breadth thereof.
And the lodges thereof were three on this side and three on that side, and the projections thereof and the recesses thereof were according to the measure of the first gate, fifty cubits the length thereof, and, the breadth, twenty-five, by the cubit.
And the windows thereof and the recesses thereof and the palm-trees thereof were according to the measure of the gate that looked toward the east,—and by seven steps, they ascend it, and their recesses were within,
And the gate to the inner court, was over against the gate, to the north and to the east,—so he measured from gate to gate. one hundred cubits.
Then he took me toward the south, and lo! a gate, toward the south,—and he measured the projections thereof and the recesses thereof, according to these measures.
And windows were there to it, and the recesses thereof round about on all sides, like these windows,—fifty cubits in length, and in breadth, five-and-twenty cubits.
And seven steps the ascents thereof, with its recesses within,—and it had palm trees one on this side and one on that side against the projections thereof.
And a gate, had the inner court towards the south,—so he measured from gate to gate toward the south, a hundred cubits.
Yea when he brought me to the inner court through the south gate, then measured he the south gate, according to these measures;
and the lodges thereof and the projections thereof and the recesses, thereof, were according to these measures, and windows, were there to it, and to the recesses thereof round about on every side,—fifty cubits in length, and in breadth, twenty and five cubits;
and there were recesses round about on every side;—in length, five and twenty cubits, and in breadth, five cubits;
and the recesses thereof reached unto the outer court, with palm-trees, against the projections thereof, and eight steps were the ascents thereof.
And when he brought me unto the inner court toward the east, then measured he the gate, according to these measures;
and the lodges thereof and the projections thereof and the recesses thereof, according to these measures, and windows were there to it and to the recesses thereof, round about on every side,—in length fifty cubits, and in breadth, five and twenty cubits;
and the recesses thereof reached to the outer court, with palm-trees, against the projections thereof, on this side and on that side,—and eight steps, were the ascents thereof.
And when he brought me to the north gate, then measured he according to these measures:
the lodges thereof the projections thereof and the recesses thereof, with, windows, to it round about on every side,—in length, fifty cubits, and, in breadth, five and twenty cubits;
and, the recesses thereof, [reached] unto the outer court, with, palm-trees, against the projections thereof on this side and on that side,—and, eight steps, were the ascents thereof.
And there was a chamber with its entrance, within the projections at the gates,— there, shall they rinse the ascending-sacrifice,
And in the porch of the gate, were two tables on this side, and two tables, on that side,—to slay thereon the ascending-sacrifice, and the sin-bearer, and the guilt-bearer.
And at the side without, in ascending to the entrance of the north gate, were two tables,—and at the other side which pertaineth to the porch of the gate, were two tables.
Four tables on this side and four tables on that side by the side of the gate,-eight tables whereupon they shall slay.
And the four tables for the ascending-offering: were of hewn stone. in length, one cubit and a half, and in breadth, one cubit and a half, and in height, one cubit,—that thereon, they may lay the instruments wherewith they shall slay the ascending-offering and the sacrifice.
And there were hooks of three hand-breadth fastened within round about on every side,—and upon the tables, the flesh of the offering.
And on the outside of the inner gate, were the chambers of the singers in the inner court which was at the side of the north gate, and their front was toward the south,—one, at the side of the south gate, fronting, toward the north.
Then spake he unto me saying, This chamber whose front is toward the south, is for the priests keeping the charge of the house;
and the chamber whose front is towards the north is for the priests keeping the charge of the altar,-the same are the sons of Zadok—who draw near from among the sons of Levi unto Yahweh. to wait upon him.
Then measured he the court, the length, a hundred cubits, and the breadth, a hundred cubits foursquare,—with the altar before the house.
And when he brought me unto the porch of the house, then measured he the projection of the porch, five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side,—and the breadth of the gate, was three cubits on this side, and three cubits on that side:
the length of the porch was twenty cubits and the breadth twelve cubits, and by ten steps they ascend into it,- and there were pillars against the projections, one on this side, and one on that side.