In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came by Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high Priest, saying,
So says the LORD of hosts, saying: This people says, The time has not come, the time that the Jehovah's house should be built.
Then came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying,
Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your finished houses, and shall this House lie waste?
And now so says the LORD of hosts: Set your heart on your ways;
you have sown much and bring in little; you eat, but you do not have enough; you drink, but you are not filled with drink; you dress, but no one is warm; and he who hires out himself hires himself for a bag full of holes.
So says the LORD of hosts: Set your heart on your ways.
Go up the mountain and bring wood, and build this House; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, says the LORD.
You looked for much, and behold, little! And when you brought it home, then I blew on it. Why, says the LORD of hosts? Because of My House that is waste, and you, each man runs to his own house.
Therefore the heavens above you have held back the dew, and the earth is held back from her produce.
And I called for a drought in the land, and on the mountains, and on the grain, and on the new wine, and on the oil, and on that which the ground brings forth, and on men, and on cattle, and on all the labor of your hands.
Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the LORD their God had sent him. And the people feared before the LORD.
Then Haggai, the LORD's messenger, spoke the message of LORD to the people, saying, I am with you, says the LORD.
And the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people. And they came and worked on the house of the LORD of hosts, their God,
in the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.