AND I saw on the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a volume of a book written within, and on the back sealed with seven seals.
And I saw mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to break the seals thereon?
And no man was able in heaven, nor upon earth, nor under the earth, to open the book, nor to look into it.
And I wept much because no man was found worthy either to open or read the book, or even to look upon it.
And one of the presbyters said unto me, Weep not: behold the lion who is of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed, to open the book, and to break the seven seals upon it.
And I beheld, and lo! in the midst of the throne, and of the four living beings, and in the midst of the presbyters, stood a lamb as just slaughtered, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God that are sent forth into all the world:
and he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that was seated upon the throne.
And when he had taken the book, the four living beings and the four and twenty presbyters prostrated themselves before the lamb, having each harps, and vases of gold, full of perfumes smoaking, which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sung a new song, saying, Worthy art thou to take the book, and to open the seals thereon; because thou hast been slaughtered, and hast redeemed us for God by thy blood, out of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation;
and hast made us for our God kings and priests, and we shall reign upon the earth.
And I looked, and heard the voice of many angels around the throne, and the living beings, and the presbyters, and their number was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,
crying with a loud voice, Worthy is the slaughtered lamb to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and might, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and those who are on the sea, and all things which are therein, heard I, saying, To him who is seated on the throne, and to the lamb, be blessing, and honour, and glory, and might for ever and ever.
And the four living beings said, Amen. And the four and twenty presbyters prostrated themselves, and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.