PAUL, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus,
to Timothy, my beloved son: grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with a pure conscience, that I keep up a constant remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day;
earnestly desiring to see thee, remembering thy tears, that I might be filled with joy;
recalling to my memory the unfeigned faith which was in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that it is in thee also.
For which cause I remind thee that thou fan into a flame the divine gift, which is in thee by the imposition of my hands.
For God hath not given us a spirit of fear; but of courage, and of love, and of sobriety.
Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but suffer affliction with me in the gospel, supported by the power of God;
who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before time had a beginning;
but is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and brought to light life and immortality by the gospel:
whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
For which cause also I suffer these things; but I am not ashamed: for I know on whom I have placed my confidence, and am persuaded that he is mighty to guard my deposit unto the great day.
Model thy teaching according to the pattern of the sound discourses, which thou hast heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
The glorious deposit committed to thy trust, guard by the Holy Ghost who dwelleth in us.
Knowest thou this, that all those of Asia have deserted me? among whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
The Lord grant mercy unto the household of Onesiphorus because he frequently was a refreshment to my soul, and was not ashamed of my chain:
but, when he was at Rome, he sought me out diligently, and found me.
The Lord grant that he may find mercy with the Lord in the great day; and how liberally he ministered to me at Ephesus, thou knowest better than any other person.