And in Antioch some among the existing church were prophets and teachers: both Barnabas and Simeon, he being called Niger, and Lucius the Cyrenian, and Manaen the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
And while they were doing service to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, So then separate both Barnabas and Saul to Me, for the work to which I have called them.
Then, having fasted and prayed, and placing hands on them, they let them go.
Then these indeed sent out by the Holy Spirit went down to Seleucia, and from there sailed away to Cyprus.
And having been in Salamis, they announced the Word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they also had John as a helper.
And passing through the island as far as Paphos, they found a certain conjurer, a false prophet, a Jew named Bar-jesus.
He was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. This one having called Barnabas and Saul to him, he sought to hear the Word of God.
But Elymas, the conjurer (for so his name is translated) withstood them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith.
But Saul, who is also Paul, being filled with the Holy Spirit, and looking intently on him,
he said, O son of the Devil, full of all guile and of all cunning, enemy of all righteousness, will you not stop perverting the right ways of the Lord?
And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is on you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun until a time. And instantly a mist and darkness fell on him, and going about he sought some to lead him by the hand.
Then seeing the thing happening, the proconsul believed, being astounded at the doctrine of the Lord.
And putting out from Paphos with those around him , Paul came to Perga of Pamphylia. And separating from them, John returned to Jerusalem.
But going through from Perga, they came to Antioch-Pisidia, and going into the synagogue on the day of the sabbaths, they sat down.
And after the reading of the Law, and of the Prophets, the synagogue rulers sent to them, saying, Men, brothers, if there is a word of exhortation to the people, speak.
And rising up, and signaling with his hand, Paul said: Men, Israelites, and the ones fearing God, listen.
The God of this people Israel chose out our fathers, and exalted the people in their stay in the land of Egypt. And with a high arm, He led them out of it.
And as forty years time passed , He tenderly bore them in the wilderness. Deut. 1:31
And He pulled down seven nations in Canaan land, and gave their land to them as an inheritance. Deut. 7:1
And after these things, as four hundred and fifty years passed , He gave judges until Samuel the prophet.
And from there they asked for a king. And God gave Saul the son of Kish to them, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
And removing him, He raised up to them David for a king, to whom He also said, witnessing, "I found David" the son of Jesse " to be a man according to My own heart, who will do all My will." 1 Samuel 13:14; Psa. 89:20; LXX-Isa. 44:28
Of the seed of this one, according to promise, God raised up to Israel a Savior, Jesus;
John going before to proclaim before the face of His entrance a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
And as John fulfilled the course, he said, Whom do you suppose me to be? I am not He , but, behold, "He comes after me, of whom I am not worthy to loosen the sandal of His feet." John 1:27
Men, brothers, sons of the race of Abraham, and the ones among you fearing God, to you the word of this salvation was sent.
For those dwelling in Jerusalem, and their rulers, not having known this One, and the voices of the prophets being read throughout every sabbath, condemning Him , they fulfilled the Scriptures .
And finding not one cause of death, they asked Pilate to do away with Him.
And when they finished all the things having been written concerning Him, taking Him down from the tree, they laid Him in a tomb.
But God raised Him from the dead;
who appeared for many days to those coming up with Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are witnesses of Him to the people.
And we preach the gospel to you, the promise made to the fathers,
that this God has fulfilled to us, their children, raising up Jesus; as also it has been written in the second Psalm, "You are My Son, today I have begotten You." Psa. 2:7
And that He raised Him from the dead, no more being about to return to corruption, so He has said, "I will give You" "the holy things of faithful David." Isa. 55:3
So He also said in another, "You will not give Your Holy One to see corruption." LXX-Psa. 15:10; MT-Psa. 16:10
For having served his own generation by the counsel of God, David truly fell asleep and was added to his fathers and saw corruption. 1 Kg. 2:10
But He whom God raised up, this One did not see corruption.
Then let it be known to you, men, brothers, that through this One remission of sin is announced to you.
And everyone believing in this One is justified from all things which you could not be justified by the Law of Moses.
Then watch that the thing spoken in the Prophets may not come on you:
"Behold, you despisers," "and marvel," "and perish, because I work a work in your days," a work which you would "in no way believe if anyone declares it to you." Hab. 1:5
But the Jews having gone out of the synagogue, the nations begged that these words be spoken to them on the next sabbath.
And the synagogue being broken up, many of the Jews and of the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who speaking to them persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.
And in the coming sabbath, almost all the city was gathered to hear the Word of God.
And the Jews seeing the crowds, they were filled with jealousy, and contradicted the things being spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming.
But speaking boldly, Paul and Barnabas said, It was necessary for the Word of God to be spoken first to you; but since you indeed thrust it away and judge yourselves not worthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the nations.
For so the Lord has commanded us, "I have set You for a Light of nations, that You be for salvation to the end of the earth." Isa. 49:6
And hearing, the nations rejoiced and glorified the Word of the Lord. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed.
And the Word of the Lord was carried through all the country.
But the Jews excited the devout and honorable women, and the chief ones of the city, and raised up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and threw them out from their borders.
But these shaking off the dust of their feet on them, they came into Iconium.
And the disciples were filled with joy and the Holy Spirit.