Paul, a called apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother,
to the church of God which is in Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called-out saints, with all those in every place who call on the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours.
Grace be to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God given you in Jesus Christ,
that in everything you are enriched by Him, in all speech and in all knowledge;
even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you;
so that you come behind in no gift, waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
He shall also confirm you to the end, that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
God is faithful, by whom you were called to the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
But I exhort you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you; but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment.
For it has been declared to me concerning you, my brothers, by those of Chloe, that there are contentions among you.
But I say this, that every one of you says, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ.
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you, or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,
lest any should say that I had baptized in my own name.
And I also baptized the household of Stephanas. Besides these, I do not know if I baptized any other.
For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel; not in wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect.
For the preaching of the cross is foolishness to those being lost, but to us being saved, it is the power of God.
For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and I will set aside the understanding of the perceiving ones."
Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the lawyer of this world? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?
For since, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom did not know God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save those who believe.
For the Jews ask for a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom;
but we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness.
But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God.
Because the foolish thing of God is wiser than men, and the weak thing of God is stronger than men.
For you see your calling, brothers, that not many wise men according to the flesh are called, not many mighty, not many noble.
But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty;
and God has chosen the base things of the world, and things which are despised, and things which are not, in order to bring to nothing things that are;
so that no flesh should glory in His presence.
But of Him you are in Christ Jesus, who of God is made to us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption;
so that, according as it is written, "He who glories, let him glory in the Lord."