To the Chief Musician. For the sons of Korah, a contemplation. We have heard with our ears, O God; our fathers have told us the work which You did in their days, in the days of old.
You drove out the nations with Your hand, and planted them; You brought evil on peoples and cast them out.
For they did not get the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them; but it was Your right hand, and Your arm, and the light of Your face, because You favored them.
You are my king, O God; command victories for Jacob.
Through You we will push our enemies; through Your name we will trample those who rise up against us.
For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.
But You have saved us from our enemies, and have put them to shame, those who hated us.
In God we boast all the day long, and praise Your name forever. Selah.
Now You have cast us off, and have shamed us, and You do not go forth with our armies.
You make us turn back from the adversary; and our haters plunder for themselves.
You have given us like sheep for food, and have scattered us among the nations.
You have sold Your people for nothing, and You did not increase by their price.
You make us a curse to our neighbors, a scorn and a mockery to those who are round about us.
You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the people.
My shame is always before me, and the shame of my face has covered me:
because of the voice of the slanderer and the blasphemer; before the enemy and avenger.
All this has come on us; yet we have not forgotten You nor dealt falsely in Your covenant.
Our heart is not turned back, nor have our steps turned aside from Your way,
though You have crushed us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death.
If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god,
shall not God search this out? For He knows the secrets of the heart.
Yea, for Your sake we are put to death all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.
Awaken! Why do You sleep, O LORD? Arise! Do not cast us off forever.
Why do You hide Your face, and forget our affliction and distress?
For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our belly holds fast to the earth.
Arise for our help, and redeem us for the sake of Your mercy.