After this, Jesus showed himself again to his disciples, at the sea of Tiberias. And he showed himself in this way.
There were together, Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathaniel of Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples.
Simon Peter said to them: I am going a fishing. They said to him: We also are going with you. They went out and entered the ship; and that night they caught nothing.
But when the morning had now come, Jesus stood on the shore; but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.
Then Jesus said to them: Children, have you any food? They answered him: No.
He said to them: Throw the net on the right side of the ship, and you will find. They threw it, there fore, and were no longer able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter: It is the Lord. And when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girded on his outer coat, for he had on his inner garment only, and threw himself into the sea.
And the other disciples came in a little ship, dragging the net with fishes, for they were not far from the land, only about two hundred cubits.
As soon as they had come to the land, they saw there a fire of coals, and fish lying upon it, and bread.
Jesus said to them; Bring of the fish that you have just taken.
Simon Peter went and drew the net to the land, full of large fishes, a hundred and fifty-three. And though they were so many, the net did not break.
Jesus said to them: Come and breakfast. But no one of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou? because they knew it was the Lord.
Then Jesus came and took the bread, and gave it to them, and the fish likewise.
This was now the third occasion on which Jesus showed himself to his disciples, after he had risen from the dead.
When, therefore, they had taken breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter: Simon, son of Jonah, Do you love me more than these? He said to him: Yes, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He said to him: Feed my lambs.
He said to him again a second time: Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He said to him: Yes, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He said to him: Be a shepherd to my sheep.
He said to him a third time: Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him: Lord, thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus said to him: Feed my sheep.
Verily, verily I say to you, when you were young, you girded yourself, and walked whither you chose; but when you have become old, you shall stretch forth your hands, and another shall gird you, and lead you whither you would not.
But this he said, signifying by what death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said to him: Follow me.
Then Peter, turning about, saw the disciple that Jesus loved, following, who also reclined at supper upon his breast, and said: Lord, who is he that delivers thee up?
Peter seeing this one, said to Jesus: Lord, what shall this one do?
Jesus said to him: If I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you? Do you follow me.
Therefore, this saying went out among the brethren, that that disciple should not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you?
This is the disciple who testifies of these things, and who has written these things; and we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things that Jesus did; if they should be written, every one of them, I suppose that not even the world itself could contain the books that would be written.