Lo! all this mine eye hath seen; Mine ear hath heard and understood it.
What ye know, I know also; I am not inferior to you.
But O that I might speak with the Almighty! O that I might reason with God!
For ye are forgers of lies; Physicians of no value, all of you!
O that ye would altogether hold your peace! This, truly, would be wisdom in you.
Hear, I pray you, my arguments; Attend to the pleadings of my lips!
Will ye speak falsehood for God? Will ye utter deceit for him?
Will ye be partial to his person? Will ye contend earnestly for God?
Will it be well for you, if he search you thoroughly? Can ye deceive him, as one may deceive a man?
Surely he will rebuke you, If ye secretly have respect to persons.
Doth not his majesty make you afraid, And his dread fall upon you?
Your maxims are words of dust; Your fortresses are fortresses of clay.
Hold your peace, and let me speak: And then come upon me what will!
Why do I take my flesh in my teeth, And put my life in my hand?
Lo! he slayeth me, and I have no hope! Yet will I justify my ways before him.
This also shall be my deliverance; For no unrighteous man will come before him.
Hear attentively my words, And give ear to my declaration!
Behold, I have now set in order my cause; I know that I am innocent.
Who is he that can contend with me? For then would I hold my peace, and die!
Only do not unto me two things, Then will I not hide myself from thy presence;
Let not thy hand be heavy upon me, And let not thy terrors make me afraid:
Then call upon me, and I will answer; Or I will speak, and answer thou me.
How many are my iniquities and sins? Make me to know my faults and transgressions.
Wherefore dost thou hide thy face, And account me as thine enemy?
Wilt thou put in fear the driven leaf? Wilt thou pursue the dry stubble?
For thou writest bitter things against me, And makest me inherit the sins of my youth.
Yea, thou puttest my feet in the stocks, And waterest all my paths; Thou hemmest in the soles of my feet.
And I, like an abandoned thing, shall waste away; Like a garment which is moth-eaten.