And, these, are the inheritances which the sons of Israel received in the land of Canaan,—which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the ancestral heads of the tribes of the sons of Israel gave them to inherit.
By lot, was their inheritance divided,—as Yahweh commanded by the hand of Moses, unto the nine tribes and unto the half tribe.
For Moses had given the two tribes and the half tribe their inheritance over the Jordan,—but, unto the Levites, gave he no inheritance in their midst;
for the sons of Joseph became two tribes: Manasseh and Ephraim,—so they gave no portion to the Levites in the land, save only cities to dwell in, with the pasture lands thereof, for their cattle and for their substance.
As Yahweh commanded Moses, so, did the sons of Israel,—when they apportioned the land.
Then came near the sons of Judah unto Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, the Kenizzite, said unto him,—Thou, knowest the word which Yahweh spake unto Moses the man of God in my behalf and in thine in Kadesh-barnea.
Forty years old, was I when Moses the servant of Yahweh sent me from Kadesh-barnea to spy out the land,—so I brought him back word, as was in my heart.
But, my brethren who had been up with me, made the heart of the people melt,—whereas, I, wholly followed Yahweh my God.
So then Moses sware on that day saying, Surely, the land on which thy foot hath trodden, unto thee, shall belong, for an inheritance, and unto thy sons, unto times age-abiding,—because thou hast wholly followed Yahweh my God.
Now, therefore lo! Yahweh hath kept me alive as he spake these forty and five years from the time Yahweh spake this word unto Moses, while Israel journeyed in the desert. Now, therefore lo! I—to-day, am eighty and five years old:
I remain, to-day, as courageous as on the day when Moses sent me, as my strength was then, so also my strength is now,—for war, both to go out and to come in.
Now, therefore, give me this mountain, whereof Yahweh spake, on that day,—for, thou thyself, didst hear, on that day, that, Anakim, were there, and great cities fortified, if so be Yahweh be with me, then shall I dispossess them, as spake Yahweh.
So Joshua blessed him, and gave Hebron unto Caleb son of Jephunneh, for an inheritance.
For this cause, hath Hebron belonged unto Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenezzite, for an inheritance, unto this day,—because he wholly followed Yahweh, God of Israel.
Now, the name of Hebron, was formerly, City of Arba, the greatest man among the Anakim, was he. And, the land, had rest from war.