In you, O Lord, I take refuge, let me never be put to shame.
In your faithfulness save me and rescue me, bend your ear to me and save me.
Be to me a rock of defence, a fortified house, to save me; for my rock and my fortress are you.
Save me, my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel.
For you, Lord, are my hope, in whom from my youth I have trusted.
On you have I leaned from my birth; from my mother’s womb it was you who did draw me. In you is my hope evermore.
I have been as a wonder to many, for you are my refuge and strength.
All the day long my mouth is filled with your praise and your glory.
Cast me not off in the time of old age; when my strength is spent, forsake me not.
For my foes whisper against me, they who watch me take counsel together;
“God has left him,” they say: “pursue and seize him, for he is helpless.”
O God, be not far from me, haste, O my God, to my help.
Put my foes to shame and dishonour, with insult and shame be they covered.
But I will never stop hoping, and more and yet more will I praise you.
All the day long shall my mouth tell your faithfulness and your salvation, though I know not how they may be counted.
I will tell of the might of the Lord, and your faithfulness praise, you alone.
You have taught me, O God, from my youth, and till now have I told of your wonders.
Even in old age and grey hair, O God, do not forsake me. Still would I tell of your might unto all generations to come.
Your power and your justice, O God, extend as far as the heavens: for great are the things you have done. Who is like you, O God?
You have caused us to see troubles many, but you will revive us again. From the depths of the earth you will bring me up again.
You will multiply my greatness, and comfort me again.
So with harp I will praise you, and your faithfulness, O my God; and make music to you on the lyre, O you Holy One of Israel.
My lips shall ring out their joy, my mouth shall sing praises to you; all of me, which you have redeemed.
Yes, all the day long shall my tongue utter your righteousness; for ashamed and confounded are they who were seeking my hurt.