And it came to pass, on the first sabbath after the second day of the feast, that he was going through the fields of grain; and his disciples pulled the ears and ate, rubbing them in their hands.
And some of the Pharisees said to them: Why are you doing what it is not lawful to do on the sabbath-days?
And Jesus answered and said to them: Have you not read even that which David did, when he was hungry himself, and those who were with him,
that he entered the house of God, and took the loaves of the presence, and ate, and gave to those also who were with him, which it is not lawful, except for the priests alone, to eat?
And he said to them: The Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
And it came to pass, on another sabbath, that he entered the synagogue and taught; and a man was there, whose right hand was withered.
And the scribes and Pharisees watched closely, whether he would heal on the sabbath-day, that they might find an accusation against him.
But he knew their thoughts; and he said to the man that had the withered hand: Rise, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose, and stood.
Then Jesus said to them, I will ask you a question: Which is lawful on the sabbath, to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill?
And looking round upon them all, he said to him: Stretch forth your hand. And he did so; and his hand was restored like the other.
But they were filled with madness, and began to consult with one another what they should do to Jesus.
And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into the mountain to pray; and he spent the night in prayer to God.
And when it was day, he called to him his disciples; and from them he chose twelve, whom he also named apostles:
Simon, whom he also named Peter, and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphæus, and Simon who is called Zelotes,
Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who was also the traitor.
And he came down with them, and stood in a plain; and with him stood a multitude of his disciples, and a great number of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea-coast of Tyre and Sidon, who had come to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases,
and those who were oppressed by evil spirits; and they were cured.
And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for power went forth from him, and healed them all.
And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: Blessed are you that are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are you that hunger now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are you that weep now, for you shall laugh.
Blessed are you when men shall hate you, and shall withdraw themselves from you, and reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, on account of the Son of man.
Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy; for behold, your reward is great in heaven: for so did their fathers to the prophets.
But alas for you that are rich! for you have received your consolation.
Alas for you that are full! for you shall be hungry. Alas for you that laugh now! for you shall mourn and weep.
Alas for you, when men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets.
But I say to you that hear: Love your enemies; do good to them that hate you;
bless them that curse you; pray for them that abuse you.
To him that strikes you on one cheek, offer also the other; and from him that takes away your mantle, withhold not your coat.
Give to every one that asks of you; and of him that takes away your goods, ask them not again.
And as you would that men should do to you, do you also in like manner to them.
And if you love them that love you, what thanks have you? for even sinners love those who love them.
And if you do good to them that do good to you, what thanks have you? for even sinners do the same.
And if you lend to them from whom you hope to receive, what thanks have you? for even sinners lend to sinners, that they may receive the same.
But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing in return; and your reward shall be great, and you shall be sons of the Most High: for he is kind to the unthankful and the evil.
Be you, therefore, merciful, as your Father also is merciful.
Judge not, and you shall not be judged; condemn not, and you shall not be condemned. Forgive, and you shall be forgiven.
Give, and it shall be given to you; good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your lap. For with the same measure with which you measure, it shall be measured to you in return.
And he spoke a parable to them: Can the blind lead the blind? Will not both fall into the pit?
The disciple is not above his teacher; but every accomplished disciple shall be as his teacher.
And why do you look at the splinter that is in your brother’s eye, but perceive not the beam that is in your own eye?
Or, how can you say to your brother: Brother, let me pull out the splinter that is in your eye, when you yourself see not the beam that is in your own eye? Hypocrite, first pull the beam out of your own eye, and then you shall see clearly to pull out the splinter that is in your brother’s eye.
For a good tree does not produce unsound fruit; nor does an unsound tree produce good fruit.
For every tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thorns, nor are grapes gathered from brambles.
The good man, out of the good treasury of his heart, brings forth that which is good; and the evil man, out of the evil treasury of his heart, brings forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of his heart his mouth speaks.
But why call me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I command?
Every one that comes to me, and hears my words, and does them, I will show you to whom he is like.
He is like a man that, when building a house, digged deep, and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the torrent dashed against that house, and it was not able to shake it, for it was founded on the rock.
But he that hears, and does not, is like a man that built a house upon the earth, without a foundation, against which the torrent dashed with violence, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great.