And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Let the sons of Israel also keep the Passover at its appointed time.
In the fourteenth day of this month, between the evenings, you shall keep it in its appointed time. You shall keep it according to all its statutes, and according to all the ceremonies of it.
And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel to prepare the Passover.
And they prepared the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month between the evenings, in the wilderness of Sinai. According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so all the sons of Israel did.
And there were certain men who were defiled by the dead body of a man, so that they could not prepare the Passover on that day. And they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day.
And those men said to him, We are defiled by the dead body of a man. Why are we kept back that we may not offer an offering of the LORD in its appointed time among the sons of Israel?
And Moses said to them, You wait, and I will hear what the LORD will command about you.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your generations shall be unclean because of a dead body, or in a journey afar off, he shall still keep the Passover to the LORD.
They shall keep it the fourteenth day of the second month at evening, eating it with unleavened cakes and bitter herbs.
They shall leave none of it until the morning, nor break any bone of it. According to all the ordinances of the Passover they shall keep it.
But the man that is clean, and is not in a journey, and holds back from preparing the Passover, even the same soul shall be cut off from among his people. Because he did not bring the offering of the LORD in His appointed time, that man shall bear his sin.
And if a stranger shall live among you, and prepares the Passover to the LORD, he shall do according to the ordinance of the Passover, and according to its ordinance. You shall have one ordinance, both for the stranger and for him that was born in the land.
And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the tent of the testimony. And at evening it was upon the tabernacle, looking like fire, until the morning.
So it was always. The cloud covered it, and it looked like fire by night.
And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the sons of Israel pulled up stakes. And in the place where the cloud stayed, there the sons of Israel pitched their tents.
At the command of the LORD the sons of Israel pulled up stakes, and at the command of the LORD they pitched. As long as the cloud stayed upon the tabernacle they rested in camp.
And when the cloud stayed long upon the tabernacle many days, then the sons of Israel kept the charge of the LORD and did not journey.
And so when the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle, according to the command of the LORD they remained in their tents, and according to the command of the LORD they pulled up stakes.
And so when the cloud stayed from evening to the morning, and the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they pulled up stakes. Whether by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, they pulled up stakes.
Whether it was two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud stayed upon the tabernacle, remaining on it, the sons of Israel stayed in their tents and did not journey. But when it was taken up, they pulled up stakes.
At the command of the LORD they encamped, and at the command of the LORD they pulled up stakes. They kept the charge of the LORD at the command of the LORD by the hand of Moses.