And again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there who had a withered hand.
And they watched him, whether he would cure him on the sabbath-day, that they might accuse him.
And he said to the man who had the withered hand: Arise, and come into the midst.
And he said to them: Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath-day, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But they were silent.
And looking around on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their heart, he said to the man: Stretch forth your hand; and he stretched it forth: and his hand was restored.
And the Pharisees immediately went out with the Herodians, and held a consultation against him, that they might destroy him.
And Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea; and there followed him a great multitude from Galilee, and from Judea,
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and from beyond the Jordan: and those about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they heard what things he was doing, came to him.
And he spoke to his disciples, that a small ship should continue near him, because of the multitude, that they might not press upon him.
For he cured many, so that as many as had diseases rushed upon him, that they might touch him.
And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried out, saying: Thou art the Son of God.
And he strictly charged them, that they should not make him known.
And he went up into a mountain, and called to him such as he wished, and they came to him.
And he appointed twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach,
and to have authority to cure diseases, and to cast out demons.
And Simon he surnamed Peter;
and James the sou of Zebedee, and John the brother of James: and these he surnamed Boanerges, which means, sons of thunder:
and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the Son of Alphæus, and Thaddæus, and Simon the Canaanite,
and Judas Iscariot, who also delivered him up.   And they went into a house:
and the multitude came together again, so that they were not able even to eat bread.
And when his relatives heard of it, they came out to take him; for they said: He is beside himself.
And the scribes who had come down from Jerusalem said: He has Beelzebul; and by the prince of the demons he casts out the demons.
And he called them to him, and spoke to them in parables: How can Satan cast out Satan?
And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom can not stand.
And if a house be divided against itself, that house can not stand.
And if Satan rise up against himself, and be divided, he can not stand, but has an end.
No one can enter the house of the strong man, and spoil his goods, unless he first bind the strong man; and then he will plunder his house.
Verily I say to you, All sins shall be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever impious speeches they may utter;
but whoever will speak impiously against the Holy Spirit shall never have forgiveness, but is subject to eternal condemnation.
For they said: He has an unclean spirit.
His mother and his brothers came, therefore, and standing without, sent to him, and called him.
And the multitude was sitting about him; and they said to him: Behold, your mother and your brothers are without, seeking you.
And he answered them and said: Who is my mother, or my brothers?
And he looked round about on those who were sitting near him, and said: Behold, my mother and my brothers;
for whoever will do the will of God, is my brother, and my sister, and mother.