So Israel brake up, with all that he had, and came in to Beer-sheba,—and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.
And God said to Israel in the visions of the night, and he said—Jacob! Jacob! And he said—Behold me!
And he said: I, am GOD himself, the God of thy father,—Be not afraid of going down to Egypt, seeing that for a great nation, will I plant thee there.
I will go down with thee to Egypt, and I will bring thee up, yea wholly up,—and, Joseph, shall lay his own hand upon thine eyes.
So Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba,—and the sons of Israel brought Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the waggons which Pharaoh had sent to bring him;
and they took their cattle and the gains which they had gained in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt,—Jacob and all his seed with him:
his sons, and his sons’ sons with him, his daughters, and his sons’ daughters, and all his seed, brought he with him into Egypt.
Now, these, are the names of the sons of Israel who came into Egypt—Jacob and his sons,—the firstborn of Jacob, Reuben:
And, the sons of Reuben,—Hanoch and Pallu, and Hezron and Carmi;
And, the sons of Simeon,—Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar,—and Shaul, son of the Canaanitess;
And the sons of Levi,—Gershon, Kohath and Merari;
And the sons of Judah,—Er and Onan and Shelah, and Perez and Zerah,—but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan, and the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul;
And, the sons of Issachar,—Tola and Puvah, and Iob and Shimron;
And the sons of Zebulon,—Sered and Elon, and Jahleel.
These, are the sons of Leah whom she bare to Jacob in Padan-aram, with Dinah also his daughter,—All the souls of his sons and of his daughters, were thirty-three.
And, the sons of Gad,—Zaphon and Haggi, Shuni and Ezbon,—Eri and Arodi and Areli;
And, the sons of Asher,—Imnah and Ishvah and Ishvi and Beriah, and Serah their sister,—and the sons of Beriah, Heber and Malchiel.
These, are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter,—so she bare these to Jacob,—sixteen souls.
The sons of Rachel, Jacob’s wife,—Joseph and Benjamin;
And there were born to Joseph in the land of Egypt, whom Asenath daughter of Poti-phera, priest of On, bare to him,: Manasseh and Ephraim;
And the sons of Benjamin—Bela and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera and Naaman, Ehi and Rosh,—Muppim and Huppim, and Ard.
These, are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob,—all the souls, were fourteen.
And, the sons of Dan,—Hushim;
And the sons of Naphtali,—Jahzeel and Guni, and Jezer and Shillem.
These, are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter,—so she bare these to Jacob,—all the souls, were seven.
All the souls that came in with Jacob to Egypt that had come forth of his loins, besides Jacob’s sons’ wives,—all the souls, were sixty-six;
and, the sons of Joseph who were born to him in Egypt, were two souls: All the souls of the house of Jacob that came into Egypt, were seventy.
And he sent, Judah, before him unto Joseph, to direct his face to Goshen,—so they came in towards the land of Goshen.
Then yoked Joseph his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father towards Goshen,—and he appeared unto him, and fell upon his neck, and wept upon his neck a good while.
Then said Israel unto Joseph I am ready to die at last,—now that I have seen thy face, in that thou art, yet alive.
Then said Joseph unto his brethren and unto the house of his father, I must go up, and must tell Pharaoh—and must say unto him, My brethren, and the house of my father, who were in the land of Canaan, have come in unto me.
Now, the men, are feeders of flocks, for men of cattle, they are,—and their flocks and their herds and all that they have, have they brought in.
So shall it come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call for you,—and shall say—What is your occupation?
Then shall ye say—Men of cattle, have thy servants been from our youth even until now, both we and our fathers,—To the end ye may dwell in the land of Goshen, for an abomination to Egyptians, is every feeder of a flock,