And it came to pass when Jesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galilee and came into the regions of Judea beyond the Jordan.
And many multitudes followed him and he healed them there.
And Pharisees came to him, trying him, and saying to him, Is it permitted for a man to divorce his wife for every cause?
And having answered, he said to them, Have ye not read that he who made them from the beginning made them male and female,
and said, For this reason a man will leave his father and mother behind, and will be bonded with his wife, and the two will be in one flesh?
So that they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, no man shall separate.
They say to him, Why then did Moses command to give a writing of divorcement, and to divorce her?
He says to them, For your hard heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it did not happen this way.
And I say to you, that whoever may divorce his wife, not for fornication, and will marry another, commits adultery. And he who married her who has been divorced commits adultery.
His disciples say to him, If the case of the man with his wife is this way, it is not advantageous to marry.
But he said to them, Not all men can accommodate this saying, but to whom it has been given.
For there are eunuchs who were born this way from their mother's belly, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs because of the kingdom of the heavens. He who is able to receive it, let him receive it.
Then children were brought to him, so that he would lay his hands on them and pray, but the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus said, Allow the children, and do not forbid them to come to me, for of such kind is the kingdom of the heavens.
And having laid his hands on them, he departed from there.
And behold one man having come to him, said, Good teacher, what good thing should I do so that I may have eternal life?
And he said to him, Why do thou call me good? There is none good except one, God. But if thou want to enter into life, keep the commandments.
He says to him, Which? And Jesus said, Thou shall not murder. Thou shall not commit adultery. Thou shall not steal. Thou shall not testify falsely.
Honor the father and mother, and, Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself.
The young man says to him, All these things I have kept from my youthfulness. What do I lack yet?
Jesus said to him, If thou want to be perfect, go, sell the things being possessed by thee, and give to the poor, and thou will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me.
But when the young man heard the saying, he went away sorrowing, for he was having many possessions.
And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, that a rich man will enter into the kingdom of the heavens difficultly.
And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to pass through the hole of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And when his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?
And having looked, Jesus said to them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.
Then having answered, Peter said to him, Lo, we have forsaken all, and followed thee. What then will be for us?
And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that ye who have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man will sit on the throne of his glory, ye also will sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And every man who has forsaken houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, because of my name, will receive a hundredfold, and will inherit eternal life.
But many first will be last, and last, first.