And Samson went down to Timnath and saw a woman in Timnath, of the daughters of the Philistines.
And he came up and told his father and mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath, of the daughters of the Philistines. And now get her for me for a wife.
And his father and his mother said to him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of your brothers, and among all my people, that you must go to take a woman from the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said to his father, Get her for me, for she pleases me very much.
And his father and his mother did not know that it was from Jehovah, that He was seeking an occasion against the Philistines. For at that time the Philistines were ruling over Israel.
And Samson and his father and his mother went down to Timnath. And they came to the vineyards of Timnath. And, behold, a young lion roaring to meet him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily on him. And he tore it as the cleaving of a kid. And there was nothing in his hand; and he did not tell his father and his mother what he had done.
And he went down and talked with the woman. And she was pleasing in the eyes of Samson.
And some days he returned to take her, and turned aside to see the remains of the lion. And, behold, a bee-swarm in the carcass of the lion, and honey.
And he took it out on his hands, and went on, eating and walking. And he went to his father and to his mother, and gave some to them. And they ate, but he did not tell them that he took the honey out of the body of the lion.
And his father went down to the woman, and Samson made a feast there, for so the young men usually did.
And it happened when they saw him, they took thirty companions, and they were with him.
And Samson said to them, Please let me riddle a riddle to you. If you certainly declare it to me in the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I shall give you thirty linen blouses and thirty changes of garments.
And if you are not able to tell me, then you shall give me thirty linen blouses and thirty changes of garments. And they said to him, Riddle your riddle, and we shall hear it.
And he said to them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they were not able to declare the riddle in three days.
And it happened on the seventh day, they said to Samson's wife, Entice your husband, that he may declare to us the riddle, lest we burn you and your father's house with fire. Have you called for us to make us poor? Is it not so?
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, You only hate me, and do not love me . You have riddled the riddle to the sons of my people, and you have not declared it to me. And he said to her, Behold, I have not declared  it to my father and to my mother, and shall I declare it to you?
And she wept before him the seven days on which they feasted. And it was on the seventh day, he told her, for she distressed him. And she told the riddle to the sons of her people.
And the men of the city said to him on the seventh day, before the sun went in, What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, Unless you had plowed with my heifer, you would not have found out my riddle.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him. And he went down to Ashkelon and struck thirty men of them, and took their plunder. And he gave the changes to those who told the riddle; and his anger glowed. And he went up to his father's house.
And Samson's wife became his companion's, who had been his feeder.