And there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
He came to Jesus by night and said to Him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God; for no man can do these miracles which you do unless God is with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus said to Him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born?
Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless a man is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again.
The Spirit breathes where He desires, and you hear His voice, but you do not know from where He comes, and where He goes; so is everyone who is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to Him, How can these things be?
Jesus answered and said to him, Are you the teacher of Israel and do not know these things?
Truly, truly, I say to you, We speak what we know and testify what we have seen. And you do not receive our witness.
If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how shall you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
And no one has ascended up to Heaven except He who came down from Heaven, the Son of man who is in Heaven.
But even as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up,
so that whosoever believes in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
For God so loved the world that He gave His only-begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.
For God did not send His Son into the world to condemn the world, but so that the world might be saved through Him.
He who believes on Him is not condemned, but he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only-begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation, that the Light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than the Light, because their deeds were evil.
For everyone who does evil hates the Light, and does not come to the Light, lest his deeds should be exposed.
But he who practices truth comes to the Light so that his deeds may be made known, that they have been worked in God.
After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea. And He stayed there with them and baptized.
And John was also baptizing in Enon near Salim, because there was much water there. And they came and were baptized.
For John had not yet been cast into prison.
Then a question from John's disciples arose with the Jews about purifying.
And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, He who was with you beyond Jordan, to whom you bore witness, behold, He baptizes, and all come to Him!
And John answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it is given to him from Heaven.
You yourselves bear witness to me that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before Him.
He who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. Then my joy is fulfilled.
He must increase, but I must decrease.
He who comes from above is above all; he who is from the earth is earthly and speaks from the earth. He who comes from Heaven is above all,
and what He has seen and heard, that He testifies, and no one receives His testimony.
He who has received His testimony has set his seal to this, that God is true.
For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God does not give the Spirit by measure.
The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand.
He who believes on the Son has everlasting life, and he who does not believe the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides upon him.