In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said unto him: 'Thus saith HaShem: Set thy house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.'
Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall, and prayed unto HaShem,
and said: 'Remember now, O HaShem, I beseech Thee, how I have walked before Thee in truth and with a whole heart, and have done that which is good in Thy sight.' And Hezekiah wept sore.
Then came the word of HaShem to Isaiah, saying:
'Go, and say to Hezekiah: Thus saith HaShem, the G-d of David thy father: I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears; behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years.
And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city.
And this shall be the sign unto thee from HaShem, that HaShem will do this thing that He hath spoken:
behold, I will cause the shadow of the dial, which is gone down on the sun-dial of Ahaz, to return backward ten degrees.' So the sun returned ten degrees, by which degrees it was gone down.
The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, and was recovered of his sickness.
I said: In the noontide of my days I shall go, even to the gates of the nether-world; I am deprived of the residue of my years.
I said: I shall not see HaShem, even HaShem in the land of the living; I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the world.
My habitation is plucked up and carried away from me as a shepherd's tent; I have rolled up like a weaver my life; He will cut me off from the thrum; from day even to night wilt Thou make an end of me.
The more I make myself like unto a lion until morning, the more it breaketh all my bones; from day even to night wilt Thou make an end of me.
Like a swallow or a crane, so do I chatter, I do moan as a dove; mine eyes fail with looking upward. O HaShem, I am oppressed, be Thou my surety.
What shall I say? He hath both spoken unto me, and Himself hath done it; I shall go softly all my years for the bitterness of my soul.
O L-rd, by these things men live, and altogether therein is the life of my spirit; wherefore recover Thou me, and make me to live.
Behold, for my peace I had great bitterness; but Thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption; for Thou hast cast all my sins behind Thy back.
For the nether-world cannot praise Thee, death cannot celebrate Thee; they that go down into the pit cannot hope for Thy truth.
The living, the living, he shall praise Thee, as I do this day; the father to the children shall make known Thy truth.
HaShem is ready to save me; therefore we will sing songs to the stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of HaShem.
And Isaiah said: 'Let them take a cake of figs, and lay it for a plaster upon the boil, and he shall recover.'
And Hezekiah said. 'What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of HaShem?'