Now Peter and John were going up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, which was the ninth hour.
And a certain man, lame from his mother’s womb, was carried along, whom they laid daily at that gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, that he might ask charity of those who were going into the temple.
This man, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked charity.
But Peter, fixing his eyes on him with John, said: Look on us.
And he gave heed to them, expecting to receive something from them.
But Peter said: Silver and gold I have none: but what I have, this I give you. In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, arise and walk.
And he took him by his right hand and raised him up: and immediately his feet and ankles received strength.
And leaping up, he stood and walked, and went with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
And all the people saw him walking and praising God;
and they recognized him, that it was he that had sat for charity at the Beautiful gate of the temple. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
And while he was holding to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch called Solomon’s, greatly astonished.
But when Peter saw it, he answered the people:   Men of Israel, why are you astonished at this? or, why do you look so earnestly on us, as if by our own power or godliness we had caused this man to walk?
The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his Son Jesus, whom you delivered up, and whom you rejected in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to release him.
But you rejected the Holy and Just One, and demanded that a murderer should be given to you;
and you slew the Author of life, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And his name, by faith in his name, has made this man strong whom you see and know; even the faith which is by him, has given him this entire soundness in the presence of you all.
And now, brethren, I know that through ignorance you did this, as did also your rulers.
But the things which God foretold by the mouth of all his prophets, that the Christ should suffer, he has thus fulfilled.
Repent, therefore, and turn, in order that your sins may be blotted out, so that seasons of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord,
and that he may send Jesus Christ, who was destined for you;
whom heaven must retain, till the time for restoring all things that God has spoken by the mouth of his holy prophets of ancient times.
For Moses said to the fathers, A prophet like me shall the Lord your God raise up for you from among your brethren; him shall you hear in all things that he shall say to you.
And it shall come to pass, that every soul that will not hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people.
And all the prophets, from Samuel and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have also foretold these days.
You are the sons of the prophets, and of the covenant that God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
To you first, God, having raised up his Son Jesus, has sent him to bless you, in turning every one of you away from his iniquities.