And Abraham took another wife and her name, was Keturah;
and she bare to him Zimran, and Yokshan, and Medan, and Midian,—and Ishbak, and Shuah.
And, Yokshan, begat Sheba and Dedan,—and, the sons of Dedan, were Asshurim and Letushim, and Leummim.
And the sons of Midian, Ephah and Epher and Hanoch, and Abida. and Eldaah,—all these, were the sons of Keturah.
And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac;
but, to the sons of the concubines whom Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts,—and then sent them away from Isaac his son while he himself yet lived, eastward unto the land of the east.
Now, these, are the days of the years of the life of Abraham which he lived—a hundred and seventy-five years.
So Abraham breathed his last, and died in a fine old age, old and satisfied,—and was gathered unto his people,
And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him, in the cave of Machpelah,—in the field of Ephron son of Zohar the Hittite, which is over against Mamre;
the field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth,—there, was buried Abraham, with Sarah his wife.
And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed Isaac his son,—and Isaac dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi.
Now, these, are the generations of Ishmael son of Abraham,—whom hagar the Egyptian woman the handmaid of Sarah bare to Abraham;
and these, are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names after their generations,—the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar and Adbeel and Mibsam;
and Mishma and Dumah, and Massa;
Hadad, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah:
these, same, are the sons of Ishmael and these, their names, by their villages and by their encampments,—twelve princes, after their tribes.
And these, are the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred and thirty-seven years,—and he breathed his last and died, and was gathered unto his people.
And they stretched their habitations from Havilah as far as to Shur, which is over against Egypt, as thou goest in towards Assyria,—over against all his brethren, he settled down.
And, these, are the generations of Isaac, son of Abraham,—Abraham, begat Isaac;
and it came to pass that, Isaac, was forty years old, when he took Rebekah daughter of Bethuel the Syrian, of the Plain of Syria,—sister of Laban the Syrian. to himself to wife.
So then Isaac made entreaty unto Yahweh in behalf of his wife, for she was, barren,—and Yahweh suffered himself to be entreated by him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
And the sons within her struggled together, so she said—If so, wherefore now am, I, [thus] ? And she went to seek Yahweh.
And Yahweh said to her. Two nations, are in thy womb, And two races, from thy body, shall be parted,—And, one race, shall be stronger, than the other race, And the elder, shall serve the younger.
Then were fulfilled her days to bring forth,—and lo! twins in her womb.
And the first came forth red, all over, as a mantle of hair,—so they called his name, Esau,
And, after that, came forth his brother with his hand fast hold of the heel of Esau, so they called his name Jacob—Now, Isaac, was sixty years old when she bare them,
And when the youths grew up, it came to pass that Esau was a man skilled in game a man of the field,—but, Jacob, was a ready man, dwelling in tents.
And, Isaac, loved, Esau, because of the game he put in his mouth,—but, Rebekah, was a lover of Jacob!.
And Jacob had boiled pottage,—when Esau came in from the field, he, being famished.
So Esau said unto Jacob. Do let me devour some of the red—this red, for, famished, I am. For this cause, was his name called Edom.
And Jacob said,—Come sell, just now, thy birthright unto me.
And Esau said, Here am I, on the point of dying,—wherefore, then, should I, have, a birthright?
And Jacob said, Come swear to me just now! And he sware to him,—and sold his birthright to Jacob.
And Jacob, having given to Esau bread and a dish of lentils, he did eat and drink and rose up, and went his way,—thus Esau despised his birthright!