And after some days he again entered Capernaum; and it was reported that he was in the house.
And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room for them, even at the door; and he was speaking the word to them.
And they come to him, bringing one that was palsied, borne by four men.
And not being able to bring him to him on account of the crowd, they took off the roof where he was; and when they had broken an opening, they let down the bed whereon the palsied man lay.
And Jesus seeing their faith, saith to the palsied man, Son, thy sins are forgiven.
But there were some of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts,
Why doth this man speak thus? He blasphemeth; who can forgive sins but God only?
And Jesus immediately perceiving in his spirit that they reasoned thus within themselves, saith to them, Why do ye reason thus in your hearts?
Which is easier? to say to the palsied man, Thy sins are forgiven? or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed and go?
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins,—he saith to the palsied man,—
I say to thee, Arise, take up thy bed and go to thy house.
And he arose, and immediately took up the bed and went forth before them all; so that they were all amazed, and gave glory to God, saying, We never saw it thus.
And he went forth again to the lake; and all the multitude came to him, and he taught them.
And passing along, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting at the custom-house; and he saith to him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him.
And it happened that he was reclining at table in his house; and many publicans and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples; for there were many, and scribes of the Pharisees were also following him.
And when they saw that he was eating with the publicans and sinners, they said to his disciples, Doth he eat and drink with publicans and sinners?
And Jesus hearing it, saith to them, They who are well do not need a physician, but they who are sick. I came not to call righteous men, but sinners.
And the disciples of John and the Pharisees were fasting; and they come and say to him, Why do the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, and thy disciples fast not?
And Jesus said to them, Can the companions of the bridegroom fast, while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
But the days will come, when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then will they fast in that day.
No one seweth a patch of undressed cloth on an old garment; for the new piece teareth away from the old garment, and a worse rent is made.
And no one putteth new wine into old skins; for the new wine will burst the skins, and the wine is lost, and the skins.
And it came to pass, that he was going through the grain-fields on the sabbath, and his disciples began, as they went along, to pluck the ears of grain.
And the Pharisees said to him, See, why are they doing on the sabbath that which is not lawful?
And he saith to them, Did ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry, himself and they who were with him?
how he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high-priest, and ate the show-bread, which it is lawful for none but the priests to eat, and gave also to those who were with him?
And he said to them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath.
So that the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.