For this Melchi-sedec was King of Salem, the Priest of the most high God, who met Abraham, as he returned from the slaughter of the Kings, and blessed him:
To whom also Abraham gaue the tithe of all things: who first is by interpretation King of righteousnes: after that, he is also King of Salem, that is, King of peace,
Without father, without mother, without kinred, and hath neither beginning of his dayes, neither ende of life: but is likened vnto the Sonne of God, and continueth a Priest for euer.
Nowe consider how great this man was, vnto whome euen the Patriarke Abraham gaue the tithe of the spoyles.
For verely they which are the childre of Leui, which receiue the office of the Priesthode, haue a commandement to take, according to the Law, tithes of the people (that is, of their bethren) though they came out of ye loynes of Abraham.
But he whose kindred is not couted among them, receiued tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And without all contradiction the lesse is blessed of the greater.
And here men that die, receiue tithes: but there he receiueth them, of whome it is witnessed, that he liueth.
And to say as the thing is, Leui also which receiueth tithes, payed tithes in Abraham.
For hee was yet in the loynes of his father Abraham, when Melchi-sedec met him.
If therefore perfection had bene by the Priesthoode of the Leuites (for vnder it the Lawe was established to the people) what needed it furthermore, that another Priest should rise after the order of Melchi-sedec, and not to be called after the order of Aaron?
For if the Priesthood be changed, then of necessitie must there be a change of the Lawe.
For hee of whome these things are spoken, perteineth vnto another tribe, whereof no man serued at the altar.
For it is euident, that our Lord sprung out of Iuda, concerning the which tribe Moses spake nothing, touching the Priesthood.
And it is yet a more euident thing, because that after the similitude of Melchi-sedec, there is risen vp another Priest,
Which is not made Priest after the Law of the carnal commandement, but after the power of the endlesse life.
For hee testifieth thus, Thou art a Priest for euer, after the order of Melchi-sedec.
For the commandement that went afore, is disanulled, because of the weakenes thereof, and vnprofitablenes.
For the Law made nothing perfite, but the bringing in of a better hope made perfite, whereby we drawe neere vnto God.
And for as much as it is not without an othe (for these are made Priestes without an othe:
But this is made with an othe by him that said vnto him, The Lord hath sworne, and will not repent, Thou art a Priest for euer, after the order of Melchi-sedec)
By so much is Iesus made a suretie of a better Testament.
And among them many were made Priests, because they were not suffered to endure, by the reason of death.
But this man, because hee endureth euer, hath a Priesthood, which cannot passe from one to another.
Wherefore, hee is able also perfectly to saue them that come vnto God by him, seeing he euer liueth, to make intercession for them.
For such an hie Priest it became vs to haue, which is holy, harmelesse, vndefiled, separate from sinners, and made hier then the heauens:
Which needeth not daily as those hie Priests to offer vp sacrifice, first for his owne sinnes, and then for the peoples: for that did he once, when he offered vp himselfe.
For the Law maketh men hie Priestes, which haue infirmitie: but the word of the othe that was since the Lawe, maketh the Sonne, who is consecrated for euermore.