For the law, having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never, with the same sacrifices, which they offer year by year continually, make a perfect expiation for those who come to them:
for then, would they not have ceased to be offered? because the worshipers, after being once cleansed, would no longer have a consciousness of sins.
There is, however, in these sacrifices, a remembrance of sins every year.
For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.
Wherefore, when he comes into the world, he says: Sacrifice and offering thou hast not desired, but a body thou hast prepared me;
in whole burnt-offerings and offerings for sin, thou hast had no pleasure.
Then, said I, Behold, I come, (in the roll of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God.
After saying above, Thou didst neither desire, nor take pleasure in sacrifice and offering and whole burnt-offerings and offerings for sin, which are offered according to the law,
then he said, Behold, I come to do thy will: he takes away the first, that he may establish the second.
By which will, we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ, once for all time.
And every priest stands daily ministering, and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins:
but after offering one sacrifice for sins, he himself sits continually at the right hand of God,
henceforth waiting till his enemies be made his footstool.
For by one offering, he has made a perfect and perpetual expiation for the sanctified.
And, indeed, the Holy Spirit is a witness for us. For after he had said before,
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord; putting my laws in their hearts, I will also write them in their understandings:
he adds, And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more.
Now, where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.
Having therefore, brethren, confidence to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus,
by a new and living way which he has dedicated for us, through the vail, that is, his flesh;
and having a great high, priest over the house of God,
let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having; our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water;
let us hold fast the unwavering confession of our hope, for he is faithful who has promised;
and let us consider one another that we may excite to love and good works,
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the custom of some; but exhorting one another, and so much the more, as you see the day approaching.
For if we sin willfully, after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no longer a sacrifice for sins;
but a certain fearful looking for of judgment, and a fiery indignation which will devour the adversaries.
He that despised Moses law, died without mercy, on the testimony of two or three witnesses:
of how much severer punishment do you think he shall be thought worthy, who has trodden under foot the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the covenant, with which he was sanctified, a common thing, and has done despite to the Spirit of grace?
For we know him who has said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And again, The Lord will judge his people.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But remember the former days, in which, after you were enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings;
partly, while you became a public spectacle, by reproaches and afflictions: partly, while you became partakers with those who were so treated.
For you sympathized with me in my bonds, and endured joyfully the seizure of your possessions, knowing that you have for yourselves a better and abiding substance in the heavens.
Cast not away, therefore, your confidence, which has a great reward.
For you have need of patience, that, after you have done the will of God, you may receive the promise.
For yet a very, very little while, and He that comes will come, and will not delay.
But the just by faith shall live; and if he draw back, my soul will have no pleasure in him.
But we are not of those who draw back to perdition; but of those who believe to the saving of the soul.