I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.
Every branch in me that bears not fruit he takes away: and every branch that bears fruit, he purges it, that it may bring forth more fruit.
Now all of you are clean through the word (o. logos) which I have spoken unto you.
Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can all of you, except all of you abide in me.
I am the vine, all of you are the branches: He that abides in me, and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit: for without me all of you can do nothing.
If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
If all of you abide in me, and my words (o. rhema) abide in you, all of you shall ask what all of you will, and it shall be done unto you.
Herein is my Father glorified, that all of you bear much fruit; so shall all of you be my disciples.
As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you: continue all of you in my love. (o. agape)
If all of you keep my commandments, all of you shall abide in my love; (o. agape) even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love. (o. agape)
These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full.
This is my commandment, That all of you love one another, as I have loved you.
Greater love (o. agape) has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
All of you are my friends, if all of you do whatsoever I command you.
Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knows not what his lord does: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.
All of you have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that all of you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever all of you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.
These things I command you, that all of you love one another.
If the world hate you, all of you know that it hated me before it hated you.
If all of you were of the world, the world would love his own: but because all of you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
Remember the word (o. logos) that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, (o. logos) they will keep your also.
But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me.
If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloak for their sin.
He that hates me hates my Father also.
If I had not done among them the works which no other man did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father.
But this comes to pass, that the word (o. logos) might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause.
But when the Comforter has come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit (o. pneuma) of truth, which proceeds from the Father, he shall testify of me:
And all of you also shall bear witness, because all of you have been with me from the beginning.