O thoughtless Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ has been plainly set forth crucified?
This only I wish to learn of you: Did you receive the Spirit by works of law, or by the hearing of faith?
Are you so thoughtless? After having begun in Spirit, do you make an end in flesh?
Have you suffered so many things in vain? if, indeed, it be in vain.
He that supplies to you the Spirit, and works mighty deeds among you, does he this by works of law or by the hearing of faith?
even as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness.
Know, therefore, that those who are of faith are the sons of Abraham.
For the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached beforehand the gospel to Abraham, saying: In you shall all the nations be blessed.
So, then, those who are of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.
For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one that does not continue in all things written in the book of the law to do them.
But that no one is justified by law in the sight of God, is evident: for the just by faith shall live.
The law, indeed, is not of faith; but he that does these things shall live by them.
Christ has bought us off from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us: (for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangs on a tree:)
in order that the blessing of Abraham may come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we may receive the promise of the Spirit through the faith.
Brethren, I speak of things common among men: No one sets a covenant aside, or enjoins any thing additional after it is confirmed, though it be a man’s covenant.
Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his offspring; he does not say: And to offsprings, as if he spoke of many; but as of one, And to your offspring, which is Christ.
And this I affirm, that the covenant which had been before confirmed by God with respect to Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, could not annul so as to make the promise of no effect.
For if the inheritance be by law, it is no longer by promise: but God bestowed it on Abraham by promise.
What, then, was the purpose of the law? It was added on account of transgressions, (till the offspring should come, to whom the promise was made,) having been appointed through the service of angels, in the hand of a mediator.
Now, a mediator for one is impossible; but God is one.
Is the law, then, against the promises of God? It can not be. For if a law had been given which could have given life, surely righteousness would have been by law.
But the scripture has shut up all under sin, that the promise by faith in Christ Jesus may be given to those who believe.
But before the faith came, we were kept under law, being shut up to the faith which was to be revealed.
So, then, the law was our pedagogue that led us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
But since the faith has come, we are no longer under a pedagogue:
for you are all the sons of God, by faith in Christ Jesus:
for as many of you as have been immersed into Christ, have put on Christ.
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bondman nor freeman, there is neither male nor female: for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if you are Christ’s, then you are Abraham’s posterity, and heirs according to the promise.