And Benjamin fathered Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
And the sons of Bela: Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,
and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
And these are the sons of Ehud, these are the heads of the fathers of the people of Geba; and they exiled them to Manahath.
And Naaman and Ahiah and Gera, he exiled them. And Ehud fathered Uzza and Ahihud.
And Shaharaim fathered sons in the land of Moab, after he had sent them away. Hushim and Baara were his wives.
And by his wife Hodesh, were Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,
and Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons, heads of the fathers.
And by Hushim he had Abitub, and Elpaal.
The sons of Elpaal were Eber, and Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono and Lod, with their towns.
And Beriah and Shema were heads of the fathers of the people of Aijalon, who drove away the people of Gath;
and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,
and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,
and Michael, and Ispah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah.
And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber,
Ishmerai also, and Jezliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,
and Elienai, and Zilthai, and Eliel,
and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimhi.
And Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel,
and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
and Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah
and Iphedeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
and Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
These were heads of the fathers, by their generations, chiefs. These lived in Jerusalem.
And at Gibeon lived the father of Gibeon, whose wife's name was Maachah.
And his first-born son was Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher.
And Mikloth fathered Shimeah. And these also lived with their brothers in Jerusalem, across from them.
And Ner fathered Kish, and Kish fathered Saul. And Saul fathered Jonathan, and Malchishua and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal. And Meribbaal fathered Micah.
And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
And Ahaz fathered Jehoadah. And Jehoadah fathered Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza.
And Moza fathered Binea; Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
And Azel had six sons, and these their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
And the sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his first-born; Jehush, the second; and Eliphelet, the third.
And the sons of Ulam were mighty men, archers, and had many sons, and sons' sons, a hundred and fifty. All these were the sons of Benjamin.