At that time, says Jehovah, I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be My people.
So says Jehovah, Israel, the people, the survivors of the sword, have found grace in the wilderness, I will go to give rest to him.
Jehovah has appeared to me from far away, saying , Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love! On account of this, with loving kindness I have drawn you.
Again I will build you, and you shall be built again, O virgin of Israel. You will again put on your tambourines and go forth in the dance of those making merry.
You shall yet plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria, the planters shall plant and shall treat them as common.
For there shall be a day when the watchmen on Ephraim's hills shall call out, Arise and let us go up to Zion, to Jehovah our God.
For so says Jehovah, Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout among the chief of the nations. Cry out, give praise and say, O Jehovah, save Your people, the remnant of Israel.
Behold! I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the corners of the earth. Among them the blind, and the lame, the pregnant one, and the travailing one together, a great company shall return here.
They shall come with weeping, and I will lead them with prayers. I will cause them to walk by rivers of waters, in a right way; they will not stumble in it. For I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is My first-born.
Hear the word of Jehovah, O nations, and declare in the coastlands far away, and say, He who scattered Israel will gather him and keep him, as a shepherd his flock.
For Jehovah has redeemed Jacob, and ransomed him from the hand of the one stronger than he.
And they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and be radiant over the goodness of Jehovah, for grain, and for wine, and for oil, and for the sons of the flock and the herd. And their life shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not pine away any more at all.
Then the virgin shall rejoice in the dance, both young men and elders together. For I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them and make them rejoice from their sorrow.
And I will fill the soul of the priests with fatness, and My people shall be satisfied with My goodness, says Jehovah.
So says Jehovah, A voice was heard in Ramah, wailing, bitter weeping: Rachel weeping for her sons; she refuses to be comforted for her sons for they are not.
So says Jehovah, Hold back your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears. For there will be a reward for your work, says Jehovah, and they shall come again from the land of the enemy.
And there is hope for your future, says Jehovah, that your sons will come again to their own territory.
I have surely heard Ephraim moaning over himself, saying , You have chastised me, and I was chastised, as a bull not broken in. Turn me, and I shall be turned; for You are Jehovah my God.
For after I had turned away, I repented; and after I was taught, I slapped on my thigh. I was ashamed; yea, I even blushed, because I bore the disgrace of my youth.
Is Ephraim My dear son? Or is he a delightful child? For as often as I spoke against him, I earnestly remember him still. So My bowels groan for him; I will surely have pity on him, declares Jehovah.
Set up road marks for yourself; make sign posts for yourself. Set your heart toward the highway, even the way you went. Turn again, O virgin of Israel; turn again to these cities of yours.
Until when will you turn to and fro, O faithless daughter? For Jehovah has created a new thing in the land: a woman shall enclose a man.
So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel: Again they will speak this word in the land of Judah, and in its cities, when I turn again their captivity, saying , Jehovah bless you, O home of righteousness, O holy mountain!
And Judah and all its cities shall live in it together, the farmers and those who travel with flocks.
For I satisfy the weary soul, and I have filled every sorrowful soul.
On this I awoke and looked up, and my sleep was sweet to me.
Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, even I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and the seed of animal.
And it shall be, as I have watched over them to pluck up, and to break down, and to throw down, and to destroy, and to bring calamity; so I will watch over them to build, and to plant, says Jehovah.
In those days they shall not any more say, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the teeth of the sons are dull.
But every man will die in his iniquity. Every man who eats the sour grapes, his teeth will be dull.
Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will cut a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
not according to the covenant that I cut with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt (which covenant of Mine they broke, although I was a husband to them, says Jehovah).
But this shall be the covenant that I will cut with the house of Israel: After those days, declares Jehovah, I will put My law in their inward parts, and I will write it on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people.
And they shall no longer each man teach his neighbor, and each man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah. For they shall all know Me, from the least of them even to the greatest of them, declares Jehovah. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sins no more.
So says Jehovah, who gives the sun for a light by day, the laws of the moon, and the stars for a light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar, Jehovah of Hosts is His name.
If these ordinances depart from before Me, says Jehovah, the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before Me forever.
So says Jehovah, If the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth below can be searched out, I will also reject all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, declares Jehovah.
Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that the city will be built to Jehovah, from the Tower of Hananeel to the Corner Gate.
And the measuring line shall yet go before it to the hill Gareb, and shall go around to Goath.
And the whole valley of the dead bodies and the ashes and all the fields to the torrent Kidron, to the corner of the Horse Gate east, shall be holy to Jehovah. It shall not be torn up, nor thrown down any more, forever.