So says Jehovah: Heaven is My throne, and earth the footstool of My feet. Where then is the house that you build for Me? And where then is the place of My rest?
And My hand has made all these things, even all these things exist, declares Jehovah. But I will look toward this one, to the afflicted, and to the contrite of spirit, even trembling at My word.
He who kills an ox is as if he struck a man; he who sacrifices a lamb is as if he broke a dog's neck; he who offers a present is as if it were swine's blood; he who marks incense is as if he blessed an idol. Yea, they have chosen their way, and their soul delights in their abominations.
I also will choose their vexations; and I will bring their fears to them; because I called, and no one answered; I spoke, and they did not hear. But they did the evil in My eyes, and chose that in which I had no pleasure.
Hear the word of Jehovah, those who tremble at His word. Your brothers who hate you, who drive you out for My name's sake, have said, Jehovah is glorified. But He shall appear in your joy, and they shall be ashamed.
A roaring sound from the city! A sound from the temple! It is the sound of Jehovah repaying retribution to His enemies.
Before she travailed, she brought forth; before pain came to her, she delivered a male child.
Who has heard a thing like this? Who has seen things like these? Shall the earth be brought forth in one day? Shall a nation be born in one step? For Zion travailed and also brought forth her sons.
Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth? says Jehovah. Surely I cause birth, and hold back, says your God.
Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad with her, all who love her. Rejoice a rejoicing with her, all who mourn for her;
that you may suck and be satisfied with her comforting breasts; that you may milk out and delight yourselves with the fullness of her glory.
For so says Jehovah: Behold, I stretch out peace to her like a river, and glory of nations like an overflowing torrent. And You shall suck; you shall be carried on the side and be dandled on knees.
As a man whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. And you shall be comforted in Jerusalem.
And you will see, and your heart shall rejoice; and your bones shall flourish like the grass. And the hand of Jehovah shall be known toward His servants, and He shall be indignant with His enemies.
For, behold, Jehovah will come with fire, and His chariots like the tempest, to return His wrath in fury, and His rebuke in flames of fire.
For by fire and by His sword Jehovah will execute judgment with all flesh; and the slain of Jehovah shall be many.
Those who sanctify themselves, and purify themselves to the gardens, each one in the midst, eaters of swine's flesh, and the hateful thing, and the mouse, these are cut off together, says Jehovah.
For I know their works and their thoughts; it comes to gather all the nations and the tongues; and they shall come and see My glory.
And I will set a sign among them, and I will send those who escape from them to the nations of Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, drawers of the bow; to Tubal and Javan, to the far away coasts that have not heard My fame nor seen My glory. And they shall declare My glory among the nations.
And they shall bring all your brothers out of all nations, an offering to Jehovah, on horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and on mules, and on camels, to My holy mountain Jerusalem, says Jehovah; as the sons of Israel bring the offering in a clean vessel to the house of Jehovah.
And I will also take some of them for the priests, for the Levites, says Jehovah.
For as the new heavens and the new earth which I make stand before Me, declares Jehovah, so your seed and your name shall stand.
And it will be, from new moon to its new moon, and from sabbath to its sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before Me, says Jehovah.
And they shall go out and see the dead bodies of the men who have transgressed against Me; for their worm shall not die, nor shall their fire be put out; and they shall be an object of disgust to all flesh.