Therefore, a promise being left to enter into His rest, let us fear lest any of you should seem to come short of it.
For also the gospel was preached to us, as well as to them. But the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard it.
For we who have believed do enter into the rest, as He said, "I have sworn in My wrath that they should not enter into My rest;" although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For He spoke in a certain place of the seventh day in this way: "And God rested the seventh day from all His works."
And in this place again, "They shall not enter into My rest."
Since then it remains that some must enter into it, and since they to whom it was first preached did not enter in because of unbelief,
He again marks out a certain day, saying in David, "Today," (after so long a time). Even as it is said, "Today, if you will hear His voice, harden not your hearts."
For if Joshua had given them rest, then He would not afterward have spoken of another day.
So then there remains a rest to the people of God.
For he who has entered into his rest, he also has ceased from his own works, as God did from His.
Therefore let us labor to enter into that rest, lest anyone fall after the same example of unbelief.
For the word of God is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing apart of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in His sight, but all things are naked and opened to the eyes of Him with whom we have to do.
Since then we have a great High Priest who has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
For we do not have a high priest who cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted just as we are, yet without sin.
Therefore let us come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need.