And they brought the ark of God and set it in the middle of the tent which David had pitched for it. And they offered burnt sacrifices and peace offerings before God.
And when David had made an end of offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD.
And he divided to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every one a loaf of bread and a portion, and a raisin cake.
And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of the LORD, and to record, and to thank and praise the LORD God of Israel:
Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-edom. And Jeiel praised with instruments of harps and with lyres; and Asaph made a sound with cymbals.
Also Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests praised with trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.
Then on that day David first delivered this psalm into the hand of Asaph and his brothers in order to thank the LORD:
Give thanks to the LORD, call on His name, make known His deeds among the people.
Sing to Him, sing psalms to Him, talk of all His wondrous works.
Glory in His holy name, let the heart of those who seek the LORD rejoice.
Seek the LORD and His strength; seek His face continually.
Remember His marvelous works which He had done, His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth,
O seed of Israel His servant, sons of Jacob, His chosen ones.
He is the LORD our God. His judgments are in all the earth.
Be always mindful of His covenant, the word He commanded to a thousand generations,
which He made with Abraham, and of His oath to Isaac.
And He has confirmed the saying to Jacob for a law, to Israel for an everlasting covenant,
saying, To you will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance,
when you were but few, even a few, and strangers in it,
and they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people,
He did not allow any man to do them wrong. Yea, He reproved kings for their sakes,
saying, Touch not My anointed, and do My prophets no harm.
Sing to the LORD, all the earth. Show forth from day to day His salvation.
Declare His glory among the heathen, His marvelous works among all nations.
For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised. He also is to be feared above all gods.
For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but the LORD made the heavens.
Glory and honor are in His presence, strength and gladness in His place.
Give to the LORD, O kindred of the people, give to the LORD glory and strength.
Give to the LORD the glory of His name; bring an offering and come before Him. Worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.
Tremble before Him, all the earth. Yea, the earth is established, it shall not be moved.
Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice. And let them say among the nations, The LORD reigns.
Let the sea roar, and the fullness of it. Let the fields rejoice, and all that is in them.
Then shall the trees of the forest sing out at the presence of the LORD, because He comes to judge the earth.
O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good, for His mercy endures forever.
And say, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us, and deliver us from the nations, so that we may give thanks to Your holy name, and glory in Your praise.
Blessed be the LORD God of Israel forever and ever. And all the people said, Amen, and praised the LORD.
And he left there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD, for Asaph and his brothers, to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required;
also Obed-edom, with their brothers, sixty-eight; and Obed-edom, the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be gatekeepers.
And he left Zadok the priest and his brothers the priests before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place at Gibeon,
to offer burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of the burnt offering morning and evening without end, and to do according to all that is written in the law of the LORD which He commanded Israel.
And he left with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were called by name, to give thanks to the LORD, because His mercy endures forever.
And with them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those making a sound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were gatekeepers.
And all the people departed, each man to his house. And David returned to bless his house.