Blow a ram's horn in Zion, and shout an alarm in My holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble. For the day of Jehovah approaches; it is near,
a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, as the dawn spread out on the mountains, a great and a strong people. There has never been the like, nor shall there ever be again to the years of many generations;
a fire devours before it, and a flame burns behind it. The land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them is a desolate wilderness; yea, also there is no escape to them.
Their appearance is like horses; and as war horses, so they run.
They shall leap like the noise of chariots on the tops of the mountains, like the noise of flames of fire that devour the chaff, as a strong people set in order for battle.
Before their face, the people shall be pained; all faces collect heat.
They shall run as mighty ones; they shall go up the wall as men of war. And they each go on his way, and they do not change their paths.
And each does not press his brother; they each go in his paths. And if they fall behind their weapon, they shall not be cut off.
They shall rush on the city; they shall run on the wall; they shall climb up on the houses; they shall enter in by the windows, like a thief.
The earth shall quake before them, the heavens shall shake. The sun and moon shall grow dark, and the stars shall gather in their light.
And Jehovah shall give His voice before His army, for His camp is very great. For he who does His word is strong. For the day of Jehovah is very great and terrifying, and who can endure it?
Yet even now turn to Me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning, declares Jehovah.
Yea, tear your heart, and not your robes; and turn to Jehovah your God. For He is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and He pities concerning the evil.
Who knows if He will turn and have pity and leave a blessing behind Him, a food offering and a drink offering for Jehovah your God?
Blow a ram's horn in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly.
Gather the people, sanctify the congregation, gather the elders, gather the children, and those who suck the breasts. Let the bridegroom go out of his room, and the bride out of her room.
Let the priests, ministers of Jehovah, weep between the porch and the altar; and let them say, Have pity on Your people, O Jehovah, and do not give Your inheritance to shame, for a proverb among those of the nations. Why should they say among the peoples, Where is their God?
Then Jehovah will be jealous for His land and have pity on His people.
Yea, Jehovah will answer and say to His people, Behold, I will send you grain, and wine, and oil, and you shall be satisfied with it. And I will no more make you a curse among the nations.
But I will remove the northern army far from you, and I will drive him into a dry and desolated land with his face toward the eastern sea, and his rear toward the western sea. And his stench shall come up, and his ill odor shall come up, because he was doing great things.
Fear not, O land, be glad and rejoice, for Jehovah is doing great things.
Fear not, beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness grow green, for the tree bears its fruit, the fig tree and the vine give their strength.
Then be glad, sons of Zion, and rejoice in Jehovah your God. For He has given to you the early rain according to righteousness, and He will cause the rain to come down for you, the early rain and the latter rain in the first month .
And the floors shall be full with grain, and the wine vats shall overflow with wine and oil.
And I will restore to you the years which the swarming locust has eaten, the locust larvae, and the stripping locust, and the cutting locust, My great army which I sent among you.
And you shall eat fully and be satisfied; and you shall praise the name of Jehovah your God, who has dealt wondrously with you. And My people shall not be ashamed forever.
And you shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am Jehovah your God, and there is no other. And My people shall not be ashamed forever.
And it shall be afterward, I will pour out My Spirit on all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions.
And also I will pour out My Spirit on the slaves and on the slave girls in those days.
And I will give signs in the heavens and in the earth: blood, and fire, and columns of smoke.
The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the coming of the great and awesome day of Jehovah.
For it shall be, all who shall call on the name of Jehovah shall be saved. For salvation shall be in Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, as Jehovah has said, and among the saved whom Jehovah shall call.