And I sawe an angell come doune from heven havinge the kaye of the bottomlesse pyt and a gret chayne in his honde.
And he toke the drago that olde serpet which is the devyll and Satanas and he bounde him a thousand yeares:
and cast him into the bottomlesse pit and he bounde him and set a seale on him yt he shuld desceaue the people no moare tyll the .M. yeares were fulfilled. And after yt he muste be loosed for a litell season.
And I sawe seattes and they sat apon them and iudgement was geven vnto them: and I sawe the soules of them that were behedded for the witnes of Iesu and for the worde of God: which had not worshypped the best nether his ymage nether had taken his marke vpon their forheddes or on their hondes: and they lyved and raygned with Christ a .M. yere:
but the wother of the deed men lyved not agayne vntyll the .M. yere were fynisshed. This is that fyrst resurreccion.
Blessed and holy is he that hath parte in the fyrst resurreccion. For on suche shall the seconde deeth have no power for they shalbe the prestes of God and of Christ and shall raygne with him a .M. yere.
And when the .M. yeares are experied Satan shalbe lowsed out of his preson
and shall goo oute to deceave the people which are in the foure quarters of the erth Gog and Magog to gadder them to gedder to batayle whose nombre is as the sonde of the see:
and they went vp on the playne of the erth and compased the tentes of the saynctes about and the beloved cite. And fyre cam doune from God out of heven and devoured them:
and the devyll that desceaved them was cast into a lake of fyre and brymstone where the beest and the falce prophet were and shalbe tormented daye and nyght for ever more.
And I sawe a grett whyte seate and him that sate on it from whose face fleed awaye both the erth and heave and their place was no more founde.
And I sawe the deed both grett and small stonde before God: And the bokes were opened and another boke was opened which is the boke of lyfe and the deed were iudged of thoo thynges which weer wrytten in the bokes accordinge to their dedes:
and the see gave vp her deed which were in her and deth and hell delyvered vp the deed which were in them: and they were iudged every man accordinge to his dedes.
And deth and hell were cast into the lake of fyre. This is that second deeth.
And whosoever was not founde written in the boke of lyfe was cast into the lake of fyre.