We doe you also to wit, brethren, of the grace of God bestowed vpon the Churches of Macedonia,
Because in great triall of affliction their ioy abounded, and their most extreme pouertie abounded vnto their rich liberalitie.
For to their power (I beare record) yea, and beyonde their power, they were willing,
And praied vs with great instance that we woulde receiue the grace, and fellowship of the ministring which is toward the Saints.
And this they did, not as we looked for: but gaue their owne selues, first to the Lord, and after vnto vs by the will of God,
That we should exhort Titus, that as hee had begon, so he would also accomplish the same grace among you also.
Therefore, as yee abound in euery thing, in faith and woorde, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your loue towardes vs, euen so see that yee abound in this grace also.
This say I not by commandement, but because of the diligence of others: therefore prooue I the naturalnesse of your loue.
For ye knowe the grace of our Lord Iesus Christ, that hee being rich, for your sakes became poore, that yee through his pouertie might be made rich.
And I shewe my minde herein: for this is expedient for you, which haue begun not to doe onely, but also to will, a yeare agoe.
Nowe therefore performe to doe it also, that as there was a readinesse to will, euen so yee may performe it of that which yee haue.
For if there be first a willing minde, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not.
Neither is it that other men should be eased and you grieued: But vpon like condition, at this time your abundance supplieth their lacke:
That also their aboundance may bee for your lacke, that there may be equalitie:
As it is written, Hee that gathered much, had nothing ouer, and hee that gathered litle, had not the lesse.
And thanks be vnto God, which hath put in the heart of Titus the same care for you.
Because hee accepted the exhortation, yea, hee was so carefull that of his owne accorde hee went vnto you.
And wee haue sent also with him the brother, whose praise is in the Gospel throughout al the Churches.
(And not so onely, but is also chosen of the Churches to be a fellowe in our iourney, concerning this grace that is ministred by vs vnto the glorie of the same Lord, and declaration of your prompt minde)
Auoiding this, that no man shoulde blame vs in this aboundance that is ministred by vs,
Prouiding for honest thinges, not onely before the Lord, but also before men.
And we haue sent with them our brother, whom we haue oft times prooued to be diligent in many thinges, but nowe much more diligent, for the great confidence, which I haue in you.
Whether any doe inquire of Titus, he is my fellowe and helper to you ward: or of our brethren, they are messengers of the Churches, and the glorie of Christ.
Wherefore shew toward them, and before the Churches the proofe of your loue, and of the reioycing that we haue of you.