And he made the altar of the burnt offering of acacia wood; five cubits its length and five cubits its width, square; and its height was three cubits.
And he made its horns on its four corners; its horns were of it. And he overlaid it with bronze.
And he made all he vessels of the altar, the pots and the shovels and the sacrificial bowls, the fleshhooks and the fire-pans. He made all its vessels of bronze.
And he made a network of bronze grating for the altar, from below under its ledge, as far as its middle.
And he cast four rings in its four ends to the bronze grating, housings for he poles.
And he made the poles of acacia wood; and he overlaid them with bronze.
And he put the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, to lift it with them. He made it hollow with planks.
And he made the laver bronze, and its base bronze, from the mirrors of the serving women, those assembling, who served at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And he made the court. To the side of the Negeb, to the south, the curtains of the court were twined bleached linen , a hundred by the cubit.
Their pillars were twenty and their sockets twenty, of bronze. The hooks of the pillars and their bands were silver.
And for the north side, a hundred by the cubit, their pillars were twenty and their sockets twenty, of bronze. The hooks of the pillars and their bands were silver.
And for the west side, curtains of fifty cubits; their pillars ten and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and her bands were silver.
And for the east side eastward fifty cubits,
curtains of fifteen cubits to the side, their pillars three and their sockets three.
And for the second side on this side and on that side to the opening of the court, curtains of fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets three.
All the curtains of the court all around were twined bleached linen .
And the sockets for the pillars were bronze, the hooks of the pillars and their bands of silver. And the overlaying of their capitals were silver; and all the pillars of the court were banded with silver.
And the screen of the opening of the court was an embroiderer's work, blue and purple and crimson, and bleached twined linen , and twenty cubits long, and the height was five cubits in width; the curtains of the court joining.
And their pillars were four, and their sockets four, of bronze; their hooks silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their bands were silver.
And all the pins for the tabernacle and for the court all around were bronze.
These are the numbered things of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the testimony, which were numbered at Moses' command for the service of the Levites in the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.
And Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that Jehovah commanded Moses.
And with him Aholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver and a craftsman, and an embroiderer in blue and in purple and in crimson and in bleached linen .
All the gold used was for the work, in all the work of the sanctuary; and it was the gold of the wave offering, twenty nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary.
And the silver of the numbered ones of the assembly was a hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and seventy five shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary,
a bekah for a head, half a shekel, by the shekel of the holy place, for everyone one passing over to those numbered, from a son of twenty years and upward, for six hundred and three thousand, five hundred and fifty persons .
And the hundred talents of the silver were for casting the sockets of the sanctuary, and for the sockets of the veil, a hundred sockets for a hundred talents, a talent for a socket.
And the thousand, seven hundred and seventy five shekels he made into hooks for the pillars; and he overlaid their capitals and joined them.
And the bronze of the wave offering was seventy talents and two thousand and four hundred shekels.
And he made with it the sockets of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the bronze altar and its bronze grating, and all the vessels of the altar.
And the sockets of the court all around, and the sockets of the opening of the court, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all of the pins of the court all around were bronze .