The Book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ the son of David, the son of Abraham:
Abraham fathered Isaac, and Isaac fathered Jacob, and Jacob fathered Judah and his brothers.
And Judah fathered Pharez and Zarah out of Tamar, and Pharez fathered Hezron, and Hezron fathered Aram,
and Aram fathered Amminadab, and Amminadab fathered Nahshon, and Nahshon fathered Salmon,
and Salmon fathered Boaz out of Rahab, and Boaz fathered Obed out of Ruth, and Obed fathered Jesse,
and Jesse fathered David the king. And David the king fathered Solomon out of her who had been the wife of Uriah,
and Solomon fathered Rehoboam, and Rehoboam fathered Abijah, and Abijah fathered Asa,
and Asa fathered Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat fathered Jehoram, and Jehoram fathered Uzziah,
and Uzziah fathered Jotham, and Jotham fathered Ahaz, and Ahaz fathered Hezekiah,
and Hezekiah fathered Manasseh, and Manasseh fathered Amon, and Amon fathered Josiah,
and Josiah fathered Jehoiachin and his brothers, at the deportation of Babylon.
And after the deportation of Babylon, Jehoiachin fathered Shealtiel, and Shealtiel fathered Zerubbabel,
and Zerubbabel fathered Abiud, and Abiud fathered Eliakim, and Eliakim fathered Azor,
and Azor fathered Sadoc, and Sadoc fathered Achim, and Achim fathered Eliud,
and Eliud fathered Eleazar, and Eleazar fathered Matthan, and Matthan fathered Jacob,
and Jacob fathered Joseph, the husband to be of Mary, out of whom Jesus was born, the One called Christ.
So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon until the Christ, fourteen generations.
And the birth of Jesus Christ was this way (for His mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph) before they came together, she was discovered to be pregnant in womb by the Holy Spirit.
But her husband to be Joseph being just, and not willing to make her a public example, he purposed to put her away secretly.
And as he was thinking about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord was seen by him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife. For that in her is fathered by the Holy Spirit.
And she will bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for He shall save His people from their sins.
And all this happened so that might be fulfilled that spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying,
"Behold! The virgin will conceive in her womb and will bear a son, and they will call His name Emmanuel" (which translated is, God with us). Isa. 7:14
And being aroused from sleep, Joseph did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took his wife,
and did not know her until she bore her son, the First-born. And he called His name Jesus.