At that time Herod the king undertook to afflict some of the church.
And he slew with the sword James the brother of John.
And when he saw that it pleased the Jews, he apprehended Peter also. Those were the days of unleavened bread.
And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four tetrads of soldiers to guard him, intending to bring him out to the people after the passover.
Therefore, Peter was kept in prison; but fervent prayer to God was made for him by the church.
When Herod was about to bring him out, on that night, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains; and the keepers before the doors were guarding the prison.
And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the prison. And he gently struck Peter on the side, and awoke him, saying: Arise quickly; and his chains fell from his hands.
And the angel said to him: Gird yourself, and bind on your sandals; and he did so. And he said to him: Throw your mantle around you, and follow me.
And he went out, and followed him; and he knew not that what was done by the angel was real, but thought that he saw a vision.
And when they had passed through the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate that leads to the city, which opened to them of its own accord. And they went out, and passed on through one street; and the angel immediately departed from him.
And when Peter came to himself, he said: Now I know, in truth, that the Lord has sent his angel, and has delivered me from the hand of Herod, and from all that was expected by the Jewish people.
And being aware of his condition, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, who is surnamed Mark, where many had met together, and were praying.
And when he knocked at the door of the entrance, a maid-servant, named Rhoda, came to listen.
And recognizing Peter’s voice, she did not open the entrance for joy, but ran in and told that Peter was standing before the entrance.
And they said to her: You are mad. But she confidently affirmed that it was even so. Then said hey: It is his angel.
But Peter continued to knock; and when they had opened the door, they saw him, and were astonished.
But, having made a sign to them with his hand, that they should keep silence, he made known to them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison, and he said: Tell this to James, and to the brethren. And he went out, and departed to another place.
And when it was day, there was no little confusion among the soldiers as to what had become of Peter.
But Herod, when he had sought for him, and found him not, examined the keepers, and commanded them to be put to death. And he went down from Judea to Cesarean, and there he remained.
And he was intending to make war upon the Tyrians and Sidonians; but they came with one consent to him; and having made Blastus, who had charge of the king’s bed-chamber, their friend, they asked for peace, because their country was supported by that of the king.
And on an appointed day, Herod, having arrayed himself in royal apparel, and seated himself on his throne, delivered an oration to them.
And the people shouted: It is the voice of God, and not of man.
And immediately an angel of the Lord smote him, because he did not give God the glory. And having been eaten by worms, he expired.
But the word of the Lord increased and multiplied.
And Barnabas and Saul, after they had fulfilled their ministry, returned from Jerusalem, taking with them John, whose surname was Mark.