And Jehovah said to Moses, Now thou shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For by a strong hand he shall let them go, and by a strong hand he shall drive them out of his land.
And God spoke to Moses, and said to him, I am Jehovah.
And I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God Almighty, but I was not known by them by my name Jehovah.
And I also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojourning, in which they sojourned.
And moreover I have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant.
Therefore say to the sons of Israel, I am Jehovah. And I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments.
And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God, and ye shall know that I am Jehovah your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
And I will bring you in to the land which I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and I will give it to you for a heritage. I am Jehovah.
And Moses spoke so to the sons of Israel, but they did not hearken to Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the sons of Israel go out of his land.
And Moses spoke before Jehovah, saying, Behold, the sons of Israel have not hearkened to me, how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who am of uncircumcised lips?
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, and gave them an order to the sons of Israel, and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
These are the heads of their fathers' houses. The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi, these are the families of Reuben.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman, these are the families of Simeon.
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. And the years of the life of Levi were a hundred thirty-seven years.
The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. And the years of the life of Kohath were a hundred thirty-three years.
And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations.
And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife, and she bore him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
And the sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri.
And Aaron took him Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, to wife, and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
And the sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These are the families of the Korahites.
And Eleazar Aaron's son took to him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife, and she bore to him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families.
These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom Jehovah said, Bring out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.
These are those who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the sons of Israel from Egypt. These are that Moses and Aaron.
And it came to pass on the day when Jehovah spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
that Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, I am Jehovah. Speak thou to Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I speak to thee.
And Moses said before Jehovah, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken to me?