And it happened when Jesus had finished these words, He moved from Galilee and came into the borders of Judea beyond the Jordan.
And great crowds followed Him, and He healed them there.
And the Pharisees came near to Him, tempting Him, and saying to Him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every reason?
But answering, He said to them, Have you not read that He who created them from the beginning "created them male and female"? Gen. 1:27
And He said, "For this reason a man shall leave father and mother, and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh." Gen. 2:24
So that they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate.
They said to Him, Why then did Moses command to "give a bill of divorce," "and to put her away"? Deut. 24:1
He said to them, In view of your hardheartedness, Moses allowed you to put away your wives. But from the beginning it was not so.
And I say to you, Whoever shall put away his wife, if not for fornication, and shall marry another, that one commits adultery. And the one who marries her who was put away commits adultery.
His disciples said to Him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry.
But He said to them, Not all receive this word, but those to whom it is given.
For there are eunuchs who were born thus from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who made eunuchs of themselves for the sake of the kingdom of Heaven. He who is able to receive, let him receive it.
Then little children were brought to Him, that He might lay hands on them and might pray. But the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus said, Allow the little children and do not prevent them to come to Me, for of such is the kingdom of Heaven.
And laying hands on them, He went away from there.
And, behold, coming near, one said to Him, Good Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?
And He said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One, God! But if you desire to enter into life, keep the commandments.
He said to Him, Which? And Jesus said, "You shall not commit murder, nor commit adultery, nor steal, nor bear false witness,
honor your father and your mother," and, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." Ex. 20:12-16; Lev. 19:18; Deut. 5:16-20
The young man said to Him, All these things I have kept from my youth. What do I still lack?
Jesus said to him, If you desire to be perfect, go sell your property and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in Heaven; and come, follow Me.
But hearing the word, being grieved, the young man went away, for he had many possessions.
And Jesus said to His disciples, Truly I say to you that a rich man will with great difficulty enter into the kingdom of Heaven.
And again I say to you, It is easier for a camel to pass through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
And His disciples were exceedingly astonished when they heard this, saying, Who then can be saved?
But looking on them , Jesus said to them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.
Then answering, Peter said to Him, Behold, we left all things and followed You. What then shall be to us?
And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, You who have followed Me, in the regeneration when the Son of man sits on the throne of His glory, you also will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And everyone who left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for My name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.
But many first ones shall be last, and last ones first.