And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Command the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them,—My offering, my food for my altar-flames my satisfying odour, shall ye take heed to offer unto me in its season,
Therefore shalt thou say to them. This, is the altar-flame, which ye shall offer unto Yahweh,—he-lambs a year old, without defect, two daily, as a continual ascending-sacrifice.
The one lamb, shalt thou offer in the morning,—and the other lamb, shalt thou offer between the two evenings;
also the tenth of an ephah of fine meal for a meal-offering,—overflowed with beaten oil the fourth of a hin:
a continual ascending-sacrifice,—which was offered in Mount Sinai, as a satisfying odour an altar-flame unto Yahweh.
Also the drink-offering thereof the fourth of a hin for each lamb,—in a holy place, shall it be poured out as a libation of strong drink unto Yahweh.
And, the other lamb, shalt thou offer between the two evenings; like the meal-offering of the morning, and like the drink-offering thereof, shalt thou offer, an altar flame a satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
But, on the sabbath day, two he-lambs a year old without defect, and two-tenths of fine meal as a meal-offering, overflowed with oil and the drink-offering thereof:
the ascending-sacrifice of a sabbath, on its own sabbath,—besides the continual ascending-sacrifice and the drink-offering thereof.
And in the beginnings of your months, shall ye bring near an ascending-sacrifice unto Yahweh, two choice bullocks and one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without defect;
and three-tenths of fine meal, as a meal-offering, overflowed with oil, to each bullock,—and two-tenths of fine-meal as a meal-offering, overflowed with oil, to each ram;
and a tenth, severally, of fine meal as a meal-offering, overflowed with oil, to each lamb,—an ascending-sacrifice, a satisfying odour, an altar-flame unto Yahweh.
And as their drink-offerings, half a hin, shall be to a bullock and the third of a hin to a ram, and the fourth of a hin to a lamb, of wine,—This, is the ascending-sacrifice of a month in its month, for the months of the year.
Also one he-goat as a sin-bearer unto Yahweh,—besides the continual ascending-sacrifice, shall it be offered, with the drink-offering thereof.
And, on the first month on the fourteenth day of the month, shall be a passover unto Yahweh;
and, on the fifteenth day of this month, a festival,—seven days, unleavened cakes, shall be eaten.
On the first day, a holy convocation,—no laborious work, shall ye do;
but ye shall bring near—as an altar-flame—an ascending-sacrifice unto Yahweh,—two choice bullocks and one ram,—and seven he-lambs a year old, without defect, must they be for you;
and, for their meal-offering, fine meal, overflowed with oil,—three-tenths for a bullock, and two-tenths for a ram, shall ye offer;
a tenth, severally, shalt thou offer for each lamb,—for the seven lambs,;
also one he-goat for bearing sin, to put a propitiatory-covering over you:
in addition to the ascending-sacrifice of the morning, which is for the continual ascending-sacrifice, shall ye offer these.
Like these, shall ye offer, daily, for seven days, as the food of the altar-flame of a satisfying odour, unto Yahweh,—besides the continual ascending-sacrifice, shall it be offered, with the drink-offering thereof.
And on the seventh day, shall ye have, a holy convocation,—no laborious work, shall ye do.
And on the day of firstfruits when ye bring near a new meal-offering unto Yahweh, in your weeks, a holy convocation shall there be unto you, no laborious work, shall ye do;
but ye shall bring near as an ascending-sacrifice, for a satisfying odour unto Yahweh, two choice bullocks one ram,—seven he-lambs a year old;
also their meal-offering, fine meal, overflowed with oil,—three-tenths for each bullock, two-tenths for the one ram;
a tenth severally, for each lamb,—of the seven lambs;
one young he-goat,—for putting a propitiatory-covering over you:
in addition to, the continual ascending-sacrifice, with the meal-offering thereof, shall ye offer them,—without defect, shall they be for you, with their drink-offerings.