THEN Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.
And the soldiers having platted a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and they clothed him in a purple robe,
and said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they gave him slaps on the face with their hands.
Then again went Pilate out, and said to them, Behold, I bring him out to you, that ye may know that I find in him no fault at all.
Then came Jesus out, bearing the thorny crown, and the purple robe. And he said to them, Behold the man!
When the chief priests therefore and the officers saw him, they cried vociferously, saying, Crucify him! crucify him! Pilate saith to them, Take him yourselves, and crucify him: for I have not found in him a fault.
The Jews replied to him, We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die, because he hath made himself the Son of God.
When Pilate then heard this saying, he was the more afraid:
and entered into the praetorium again, and saith to Jesus, From whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.
Then saith Pilate to him, Dost thou not speak to me? dost thou not know that I have power to crucify thee, and that I have power to release thee?
Jesus answered, Thou wouldest have had no authority over me, unless it had been given thee from above: for this reason, he that hath delivered me up to thee hath the greater crime.
Upon this Pilate sought to release him: but the Jews clamoured, saying, If thou release this fellow, thou art no friend of Caesar’s: every one who professes himself a king, speaks in opposition to Caesar.
When Pilate therefore heard this speech, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat, in a place called the Stone Pavement, but in the Hebrew, Gabbatha.
And it was the preparation of the passover, and about the sixth hour: and he saith to the Jews, Behold your King!
But they cried vociferously, Away with him, away! crucify him! Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar.
Then delivered he him therefore unto them, that he should be crucified. And they took Jesus and led him away.
And carrying his cross he went forth to a place called the Place of a Skull, which in the Hebrew is termed Golgotha:
where they crucified him, and two others with him, on this side and on that, and in the midst Jesus.
And Pilate also wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And this was the writing: JESUS THE NAZAREAN, THE KING OF THE JEWS,
This title then many of the Jews read: for the spot where Jesus was crucified was nigh unto the city: and it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, and in Latin.
The chief priests of the Jews then said to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews.
Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments, and made four parts, for each soldier a part; and his vest: now the vest was without a seam, woven from the upper parts throughout the whole.
They said therefore one to another, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, “They parted my garments among them, and for my vest they cast lots.” So the soldiers therefore did these things.
Now beside the cross of Jesus stood his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Cleopas, and Mary Magdalene.
When Jesus then beheld his mother, and the disciple whom he loved, standing by, he saith to his mother, Woman, behold thy son!
Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour the disciple took her unto his own home.
After this, Jesus, conscious that all things were now finished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst.
Now there was placed a vessel full of vinegar: they then filling a spunge with the vinegar, and putting it on a stick of hyssop, carried it to his mouth.
When therefore Jesus had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and inclining his head, he surrendered up his spirit.
The Jews therefore, as it was the preparation, that the bodies might not remain on the cross on the sabbath, (for that sabbath-day was a great day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.
Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with him.
But when they came to Jesus, as they saw that he was already dead, they brake not his legs:
but one of the soldiers with his lance pierced his side, and immediately there gushed out blood and water.
And he that saw it bore witness, and we know that his testimony is true: and he himself is conscious that he speaketh what is true, that ye might believe.
Now these things were done, that the scripture might be fulfilled, “A bone of him shall not be broken.”
And again another scripture saith, “They shall look on him whom they have pierced.”
And after these things Joseph of Arimathea, (being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews,) besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus and Pilate permitted him. Then he came and took away the body of Jesus.
And Nicodemus, who had come to Jesus by night formerly, came also, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred weight.
Then they took the body, and bound it with swathes together with the aromatics, as the custom is with the Jews to bury.
And there was near the spot were he was crucified a garden and in the garden a new tomb, wherein no person had ever yet been laid.
Because of the preparation of the Jews therefore, they laid Jesus there; for the sepulchre was just by.