And her mother-in-law Naomi said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for you so that it may be well with you?
And now is not Boaz of our kindred, he with whose maidens you were? Behold, he winnows barley tonight in the threshing-floor.
Therefore wash yourself, and anoint yourself, and put your clothing upon you, and go down to the floor. Do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.
And when he lies down, you mark the place where he lies, and you shall go in and uncover his feet and lie down. And he will tell you what you shall do.
And she said to her, All that you say, I will do.
And she went down to the grain floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law had told her.
And when Boaz had eaten and had drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap. And she came softly and uncovered his feet, and lay down.
And it happened at midnight, the man trembled and turned himself. And, behold, a woman lay at his feet.
And he said, Who are you? And she answered, I am your handmaid Ruth. And you shall spread your skirt over your handmaid, for you are a kinsman-redeemer.
And He said, Blessed be you of the LORD, my daughter. You have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, in that you did not follow young men, whether poor or rich.
And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do to you all that you ask. For all the city of my people knows that you are a woman of virtue.
And now it is true that I am your kinsman-redeemer. But there is also a kinsman nearer than I.
Stay tonight, and it shall be in the morning, if he will redeem you, well; he will redeem. And if he does not delight to redeem you, as the LORD lives, then I will redeem you. Lie down until the morning.
And she lay at his feet until the morning. And she rose up before one could know another. And he said, Do not let it be known that a woman came to the floor.
Also, he said, Bring the veil on you, and hold it. And when she held it, he measured six measures of barley and laid it on her. And she went to the city.
And when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, Who are you, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done to her.
And she said, These six measures of barley he gave to me. For he said to me, Do not go empty to your mother-in-law.
And she said, Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter will fall. For the man will not rest until he has finished the thing today.