And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the sons of Israel, which they hallow to me, and that they not profane my holy name. I am Jehovah.
Say to them, Whoever he is of all your seed throughout your generations, that approaches to the holy things, which the sons of Israel hallow to Jehovah, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from before me. I am Jehovah.
Whatever man of the seed of Aaron being a man with a leprous disease, or has an issue, he shall not eat of the holy things until he is clean. And whoever touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goes from him,
or whoever touches any creeping thing, by which he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take uncleanness, whatever uncleanness he has,
the soul that touches any such shall be unclean until the evening. And shall not eat of the holy things unless he bathe his flesh in water.
And when the sun is down, he shall be clean, and afterward he shall eat of the holy things, because it is his bread.
That which dies of itself, or is torn by beasts, he shall not eat to defile himself with it. I am Jehovah.
They shall therefore keep my charge, lest they bear sin for it, and die in it if they profane it. I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing. A sojourner of the priest's, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.
But if a priest buys any soul, the purchase of his money, he shall eat of it, and such as are born in his house, they shall eat of his bread.
And if a priest's daughter be married to a stranger, she shall not eat of the heave offering of the holy things.
But if a priest's daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have no child, and is returned to her father's house, as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's bread, but there shall no stranger eat of it.
And if a man eats of the holy thing unwittingly, then he shall put the fifth part of it to it, and shall give the holy thing to the priest.
And they shall not profane the holy things of the sons of Israel, which they offer to Jehovah,
and so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt when they eat their holy things, for I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and say to them, Whoever he is of the house of Israel, or of the sojourners in Israel, who offers his oblation, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their freewill offerings, which they offer to Jehovah for a burnt offering,
that ye may be accepted, ye shall offer a male without blemish, of the bullocks, of the sheep, or of the goats.
But whatever has a blemish, that ye shall not offer, for it shall not be acceptable for you.
And whoever offers a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill offering, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish in it.
Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a skin tumor, or scurvy, or scabbed, ye shall not offer these to Jehovah, nor make an offering by fire of them upon the altar to Jehovah.
Either a bullock or a lamb that has anything superfluous or lacking in his parts, that thou may offer for a freewill offering, but it shall not be accepted for a vow.
That which has its testicles bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut, ye shall not offer to Jehovah, neither shall ye do thus in your land.
Neither from the hand of a foreigner shall ye offer the bread of your God of any of these, because their corruption is in them; there is a blemish in them. They shall not be accepted for you.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam, and from the eighth day and after that it shall be accepted for the oblation of an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And whether it be cow or ewe, ye shall not kill it and its young both in one day.
And when ye sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to Jehovah, ye shall sacrifice it that ye may be accepted.
It shall be eaten on the same day. Ye shall leave none of it until the morning. I am Jehovah.
Therefore ye shall keep my commandments, and do them. I am Jehovah.
And ye shall not profane my holy name, but I will be hallowed among the sons of Israel. I am Jehovah who hallows you,
who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am Jehovah.