Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been fathered by God, and everyone who loves ⌞the father⌟ also loves the child fathered by him.
By this we know that we love the children of God: whenever we love God and keep his commandments.
For this is the love of God: that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome,
because everyone who is fathered by God conquers the world.    And this is the victory which has conquered the world: our faith.
Now who is the one who conquers the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is the one who came by water and blood—Jesus Christ, not with the water only, but with the water and with the blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth.
For there are three that testify,<note placement="foot">Later Latin manuscripts add the following words to v. 7 and v. 8: “in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one.
And there are three that testify on earth”</note>  the Spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are ⌞in agreement⌟.
If we receive the testimony of people, the testimony of God is greater, because this is the testimony of God that he has testified concerning his Son.
(The one who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. The one who does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has testified concerning his Son.)
And this is the testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
The one who has the Son has the life; the one who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life.
And this is the confidence that we have before him: that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us.
And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked from him.
If anyone should see his brother sinning a sin not leading to death, he should ask, and he will grant life to him, to those who sin not leading to death. (There is a sin leading to death; I do not say that he should ask about that.
All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not leading to death.)
We know that everyone who is fathered by God does not sin, but the one fathered by God, he protects him, and the evil one does not touch him.
We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.
And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, in order that we may know the one who is true, and we are in the one who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This one is the true God and eternal life.
Little children, guard yourselves from idols.