And, again, began he to be teaching by the sea; and there come together unto him a very great multitude, so that, he, into a boat, entering, was sitting upon the sea,—and, all the multitude, were, near the sea upon the land.
And he began to teach them, in parables, many things, and was saying unto them, in his teaching—
Hearken! Lo! the sower went forth to sow;
And it came to pass, as he sowed, some, indeed, fell by the pathway, and the birds came, and devoured it;
And, some, fell on the rocky places, [even] where it had not much earth,—and, straightway, it sprang forth, by reason of its not having depth of earth;
and, when the sun arose, it was scorched,—and, by reason of its not having root, it was dried up;
And, some, fell among the thorns, and the thorns came up and choked it, and, fruit, it yielded not;
And, other, fell into the good ground, and was yielding fruit, coming up and growing,—and was bearing, thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold,
And he was saying—He that hath ears to hear, let him hear!
And when he was alone they who were about him with the twelve questioned him as to the parables;
and he was saying unto them—To you, the sacred secret hath been given of the kingdom of God, whereas, to them who are outside, in parables are all things coming to pass,—that
They may surely look and yet not see, and surely hear and yet not understand, lest once they should return and it be forgiven them.
And he saith unto them—Know ye not this parable? How then will ye get to know all the parables?
The sower, soweth the word;
And these are they beside the pathway where the word is sown,—and, as soon as they hear, straightway, cometh Satan, and snatcheth away the word which hath been sown into them;
And these are likewise they upon the rocky places sown,—who, as soon as they hear the word, straightway, with joy receive it,
and have no root in themselves, but, only for a season are,—afterwards, when there ariseth tribulation or persecution by reason of the word, straightway, they find cause of stumbling;
And others are they who among thorns are sown,—these are they who hear the word,
and, the anxieties of the age, and the deceit of wealth, and the covetings about the remaining things, entering in, choke up the word, and, unfruitful, it becometh;
And those yonder are they who on the good ground are sown,—who, indeed, hear the word, and accept it, and bear fruit—thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.
And he was saying unto them—Doth the lamp come that under the measure it should be put, or under the couch? Is it not that upon the lampstand it may be put?
For it is not hidden, save that it may be made visible; neither did it get hidden away, but that it might come into a place where it could be seen.
If any one hath ears to hear, let him hear.
And he was saying unto them—Be taking heed what ye are hearing:—with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured unto you, and added unto you;
For, he that hath, it shall be given, unto him, and, he that hath not, even what he hath, shall be taken from him.
And he was saying—Thus, is the kingdom of God: As a man may cast seed upon the earth,
and be sleeping and rising, night and day,—and the seed be sprouting, and lengthening itself,—how, he, knoweth not:
of itself, the earth beareth fruit,—first, a blade, afterwards, an ear, after that, full corn in the ear;
but, as soon as the fruit yieldeth itself up, straightway, he sendeth forth the sickle, because standing by is the harvest.—
And he was saying—How shall we liken the kingdom of God, or, in what parable, shall we put it?
As a grain of mustard seed,—which, whensoever it may be sown upon the earth, is less than all the seeds that are upon the earth;
and, as soon as it is sown, springeth up, and becometh greater than all garden plants, and produceth large branches, so that, under the shade thereof, the birds of heaven can find shelter.
And, with many such parables as these, was he speaking unto them the word,—according as they were able to hear;
but, without a parable, was he not speaking unto them,—privately, however, unto his own disciples, was he explaining all things.
And he saith unto them, on that day, when evening came, Let us cross over unto the other side;
and, dismissing the multitude, they take him with them, as he was, in the boat, and, other boats, were with him.
And there ariseth a great tempest of wind,—and, the waves, were dashing over into the boat, so that, already being filled, was the boat.
And he was in the stern, on the cushion, sleeping. And they arouse him, and say unto him, Teacher! carest thou not that we perish?
And, roused up, he rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea—Hush! be still! and the wind lulled, and it became a great calm.
And he said unto them—Why, are ye, fearful? Not yet, have ye faith?
And they were caused to fear a great fear, and were saying one to another—Who then is, this, that, both the wind and the sea, give ear unto him?