My son, keep my sayings, and, my commandments, treasure by thee;
Keep my commandments and live, and mine instruction, as the pupil of thine eye;
Bind them upon thy fingers, write them, on the tablet of thy heart;
Say unto wisdom, My sister, thou! and, an acquaintance, call thou, understanding:
That thou mayest be kept, from the woman that is a stranger, from the female unknown, who, with her speeches, doth flatter.
For, in the window of my house, through my lattice, I looked out;
And saw among the simple ones, discerned among the youths, A young man lacking sense;
Passing through the street, near her corner, and, on the way to her house, he sauntered along;
In the twilight, in the evening of the day, in the midst of the night, and the gloom;
And lo! a woman, came to meet him, attired as one unchaste, of a wily heart.
Boisterous, is she, and rebellious, In her house, abide not her feet;
Now outside, now in the broadways, and, near every corner, she lieth in wait:
So she caught him, and kissed him, and, embolding her face, she said to him:
Peace-offerings, are by me, to-day, have I paid my vows;
For this cause, came I forth to meet thee, to seek diligently thy face, and I have found thee:
Coverlets, have I spread on my couch of pleasure, dark-hued stuffs, of the yarn of Egypt;
I have sprinkled my bed, with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon:
Come! let us take our fill of endearments, until morning, let us delight ourselves with caresses;
For the husband is not in his house, he hath gone on a journey afar;
A bag of silver, hath he taken in his hand, On the day of the full moon, will he enter his house.
She turneth him aside, with her great persuasiveness,—with the flattery of her lips, she compelleth him:
Going after her instantly, as an ox, to the slaughter, he entereth, and, as in fetters, unto the correction of a fool.
Until an arrow cleaveth his liver, as a bird hasteth into a snare, and knoweth not, that, for his life, it is!
Now, therefore, ye sons, hearken unto me, and attend, to the sayings of my mouth;
Let not thy heart, turn aside to her ways, Do not go astray, in her paths.
For, many, wounded, hath she caused to fall,—yea strong men, slain wholly by her:
Ways to hades, are in her house, descending into the chambers of death.