Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
And having fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward he was hungry.
And after he who tempts came, he said to him, If thou are the Son of God, speak so that these stones may become bread.
But having answered, he said, It is written, Man will not live on bread alone, but on every word coming out through the mouth of God.
Then the devil takes him into the holy city, and stands him on the pinnacle of the temple.
And he says to him, If thou are the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written, He will command his agents about thee, and, They will take thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Jesus said to him, Again it is written, Thou shall not challenge the Lord thy God.
Again, the devil takes him onto an exceedingly high mountain, and shows him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them.
And he says to him, All these things I give thee, if after falling down, thou will worship me.
Then Jesus says to him, Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written, Thou shall worship the Lord thy God, and him only thou shall serve.
Then the devil leaves him, and behold, agents came and served him.
Now when Jesus heard that John was delivered up, he departed into Galilee.
And having left Nazareth behind, after coming, he dwelt in Capernaum by the sea in the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali,
so that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which says,
The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles,
the people who dwell in darkness saw a great light, and to those who dwell in the region and shadow of death, light sprang up to them.
From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent ye, for the kingdom of the heavens has approached.
And walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
And he says to them, Come behind me, and I will make you fishermen of men.
And straightaway having left the nets, they followed him.
And having gone on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And he called them.
And straightaway having left the boat and their father, they followed him.
And Jesus went around all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people.
And his fame went forth into all Syria. And they brought to him all those faring badly with various diseases, and gripped with pain, and being demon-possessed, and being lunatic, and paralyzed. And he healed them.
And many multitudes from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and beyond the Jordan followed him.