Then fourteen years later I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas and took Titus with [me] also.
But I went up by revelation and communicated unto them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to those who seemed to be of repute, to not run, or have run, in vain.
But not even Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised,
And that in spite of the false brethren, who entered secretly to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus that they might bring us into bondage;
Unto whom we did not submit even for one hour that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.
But of these who seemed to be of repute, (whatever they were, it makes no matter to me: God does not accept the appearance of men), for those who seemed [to be of repute] in conference added nothing to me;
But to the contrary, when they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was committed unto me, as [the gospel] of the circumcision [was] unto Peter
(for he that showed himself forth in Peter for apostleship of the circumcision, the same also showed himself forth in me toward the Gentiles);
and when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship that we [should go] unto the Gentiles, and they unto the circumcision.
Only [they asked] that we should remember the poor; the same which I was also diligent to do.
But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face because he was to be blamed.
For before certain ones came from James, he ate with the Gentiles, but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision.
And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him, insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they did not walk uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before [them] all, If thou, being a Jew, dost live after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why dost thou compel the Gentiles to live as do the Jews?
We [who are] Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles,
knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by [the] faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law; for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified.
But if, while we seek to be justified in Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners, [is] therefore Christ the minister of [our] sin? No, in no wise.
For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a rebel.
For through the law I am dead to the law, that I might live unto God.
I am crucified with Christ; nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ lives in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
I do not reject the grace of God, for if righteousness [comes] by the law, then Christ is dead in vain.: