And when he came down from the mountain, there followed him large multitudes.
And lo! a leper, coming near, began to bow down to him saying,—Lord! if thou be willing, thou canst cleanse me.
And, stretching forth the hand, he touched him, saying,—I am willing, be cleansed! And, straightway, cleansed was his leprosy.
And Jesus saith unto him, Mind! tell, no one,—but withdraw, thyself, shew to the priest, and offer the gift which Moses directed, for a witness unto them.
And, when he entered into Capernaum, there came near unto him a centurion, beseeching him,
and saying, Lord! my servant, is laid prostrate in the house, a paralytic, fearfully tortured.
He saith unto him, I, will come and cure him.
But the centurion, answering, said, Lord! I am of no consideration, that, under my roof, thou shouldest enter,—but, only say with a word, and healed shall be my servant.
For, I also, am a man [set] under authority, having under myself, soldiers,—and I say to this one, Go! and he goeth, and to another, Come! and he cometh, and, to my servant, Do this! and he doeth it.
Now Jesus, hearing, marveled, and said to them that followed,—Verily, I say unto you, With no one in Israel, such faith as this, have I found.
But I say unto you, Many from east and west, will have come, and shall recline with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, in the kingdom of the heavens;
Whereas, the sons of the kingdom, shall be cast forth into the darkness outside,—There, will be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
And Jesus said unto the centurion, Withdraw! and, as thou hast believed, be it done for thee. And healed was the servant in that hour.
And Jesus, coming into the house of Peter, saw his mother-in-law laid prostrate and in a fever,
and he touched her hand, and the fever left her,—and she arose, and began ministering unto him.
But, when, evening, came, they brought unto him many demonized,—and he cast out the spirits with a word, and, all who were sick, he cured:
that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying,—Himself, our weaknesses, took, and, diseases, bare.
Now Jesus, seeing a multitude about him, gave orders to depart unto the other side.
And a certain scribe, coming near, said unto him,—Teacher; I will follow thee, whithersoever Thou goest.
And Jesus saith unto him: The foxes, have, dens, and, the birds of the heavens, nests,—but, the Son of Man, hath not where, his head he may recline.
And, another of the disciples, saith unto him,—Lord! suffer me, first, to depart, and bury my father.
But, Jesus, saith unto him,—Be following me, and leave, the dead, to bury, their own dead.
And, when he, entered, into a boat, his disciples followed him.
And lo! a great squall, arose in the sea, so that, the boat, was being covered, by the waves,—but, he, was sleeping.
And, coming near, they aroused him, saying, Master! save, we perish!
And he saith unto them, Why, are ye, fearful, little of faith? Then, aroused, he rebuked the winds and the sea,—and it became a great calm.
But, the men, marveled, saying, Whence is this one,—that, both the winds and the sea, unto him, give ear?
And, when he, came, unto the other side, into the country of the Gadarenes, there met him, two men demonized, out of the tombs, coming forth,—fierce exceedingly, so that no one could pass that way;
and lo! they cried aloud, saying, What have we in common with thee, O Son of God? Hast thou come hither, before the right time, to torment us?
Now there was, far from them, a herd of many swine, feeding;
and, the demons, began to beseech him, saying, If thou dost cast us out, send us away, into the herd of swine.
And he said unto them, Withdraw! So, they, going out, departed into the swine,—and lo! all the herd rushed down the cliff, into the sea, and died in the waters.
And, they who were feeding them, fled,—and, departing into the city, reported all things, and what concerned them who had been demonized.
And lo! all the city, came out to meet Jesus,—and, seeing him, they besought that he would pass on from their bounds.