Better is the poor man who walketh in his integrity, Than he who is of false lips and a fool.
Moreover, that the soul be without knowledge is not good, And he that hasteth with is feet stumbleth.
The folly of man destroyeth his way, And then his heart fretteth against the LORD.
Wealth maketh many friends; But the poor is separated from his neighbor.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, And he that speaketh lies shall not escape.
Many are they who caress the noble, And every one is the friend of him who giveth gifts.
All the brethren of the poor man hate him; How much more do his friends go far from him! He runneth after their words,—they are gone!
He that getteth wisdom loveth himself; He that keepeth understanding shall find good.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, And he that speaketh lies shall perish.
Luxury is not seemly for a fool; Much less should a servant have rule over princes.
A man of understanding is slow to anger; Yea, it is his glory to pass over an offence.
The wrath of a king is like the roaring of a lion; But his favor, like dew upon the grass.
A foolish son is a calamity to his father, And the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.
Houses and riches are an inheritance from fathers; But a prudent wife is from the LORD.
Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep, And the idle person shall suffer hunger.
He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his life; But he that neglecteth his ways shall die.
He who hath pity on the poor lendeth to the LORD, And that which he giveth will he repay him.
Chasten thy son because there is hope, But let not thy soul desire to slay him.
A man of great wrath will suffer punishment; For if thou deliver him, yet must thou do it again.
Listen to counsel and receive instruction, That thou mayst be wise in thy latter years.
Many are the devices in the heart of a man; But the purpose of the LORD, that shall stand.
The charm of a man is his kindness; And better is a poor man than a liar.
The fear of the LORD tendeth to life, And he that hath it shall abide satisfied; He shall not be visited with evil.
The slothful man dippeth his hand into the dish: He doth not bring it back even to his mouth.
Strike the scoffer, and the simple will become prudent; Reprove a man of understanding, and he will discern knowledge.
The son that causeth shame and disgrace doeth violence to his father, And chaseth away his mother.
Cease, my son, to listen to the instruction That causeth thee to wander from the words of knowledge!
A worthless witness scoffeth at justice, And the mouth of the wicked swalloweth down iniquity.
Punishments are prepared for scoffers, And stripes for the back of fools.