I have spoken these things to you, so that ye may not be caused to stumble.
They will make you excommunicated from the synagogues. But the hour comes that every man who kills you will presume to be offering service to God.
And they will do these things, because they have not known the Father nor me.
But I have told you these things, so that when the hour comes, ye may remember that I told you of them. But I did not tell you these things from the beginning because I was with you.
But now I go to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, Where do thou go?
But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
Nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I depart, for if I do not depart, the helper will not come to you. But whenever I go, I will send him to you.
And having come, that will convict the world about sin, and about justice, and about judgment.
About sin because they truly did not believe in me,
and about justice because I go to the Father, and ye see me no more,
and about judgment because the ruler of this world has been judged.
I have yet many things to say to you, but ye cannot bear them now.
However when that, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak from himself, but as many things as he may hear, he will speak. And he will report to you the things that are coming.
He will glorify me because he will receive from me, and will report to you.
All things, as many as the Father has are mine. Because of this I said that he takes from me, and will report to you.
A little while, and ye do not see me. Again a little while, and ye will look at me, because I go to the Father.
Therefore some of his disciples said among themselves, What is this that he says to us, A little while, and ye do not see me, and, Again a little while, and ye will look at me, and, Because I go to the Father?
They said therefore What is this that he says, A little while? We know not what he says.
Therefore Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, Do ye inquire among yourselves about this, because I said, A little while, and ye do not see me, and, Again a little while, and ye will look at me?
Truly, truly, I say to you, that ye will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. Ye will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will become into joy.
When a woman brings forth she has pain because her hour has come. But when she has given birth to the child she no longer remembers the anguish because of the joy that a man was born into the world.
And now therefore indeed ye have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no man takes your joy away from you.
And in that day ye will ask me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, that as many things as ye may ask the Father in my name, he will give you.
Until now ye have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and ye will receive, so that your joy may be made full.
These things I have spoken to you in veiled words. The hour comes, when I will no more speak to you in veiled words, but will inform you plainly about the Father.
In that day ye will ask in my name, and I do not say to you, that I will pray the Father about you,
for the Father himself loves you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God.
I came forth from the Father, and have come into the world. Again I leave the world, and go to the Father.
His disciples say to him, Lo, now thou speak plainly, and speak not one veiled word.
Now we know that thou know all things, and have no need that any man should question thee. By this we believe that thou came forth from God.
Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe?
Behold, the hour comes, and now has come, that ye will be scattered, each man to his own things, and ye will leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.
These things I have spoken to you, so that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye have tribulation. But cheer up, I have overcome the world.