AND after these transactions, Paul departing from Athens, came to Corinth;
and finding a certain Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, lately arrived from Italy, with Priscilla his wife, (because Claudius had issued an order that all Jews should depart from Rome,) he turned in to them.
And as he was of the same occupation, he abode with them, and worked, (for by trade they were tent-makers:)
and he discoursed in the synagogue every sabbath-day, and persuaded both the Jews and the Greek proselytes.
And when Silas and Timothy were come from Macedonia, Paul felt a strong impulse on his spirit, and forcibly testified to the Jews, that Jesus was the Messiah.
But as they continued opposing and blaspheming, he shook his garments, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am pure from it: from this moment will I go to the Gentiles.
And departing thence, he came to the house of a person, called Justus, one who worshipped God, whose house was contiguous to the synagogue.
But Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his house: and many of the Corinthians hearing, believed, and were baptised.
Then spake the Lord in a vision by night to Paul, Fear not, but speak; and hold not thy peace:
for I am with thee, and no man shall set himself against thee to do thee harm; because I have much people in this city.
And he sat down there a year and six months, teaching among them the word of God.
But when Gallio was the proconsul of Achaia, the Jews, with one accord, rose up against Paul, and brought him to the judgment-seat,
saying, This is the fellow that earnestly persuades men to worship God contrary to the law.
Then Paul being about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews,
If indeed this was now a matter of injustice, or wicked knavery, with reason I should hear you patiently; but if it be merely a controversy about the word, and names, and a law peculiar to yourselves, settle it yourselves: for I will be no judge of these matters.
And he drove them from the judgment-seat.
Then all the Greeks laid hold on Sosthenes the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the tribunal. And Gallio paid no regard to any of these things.
Then Paul abode there yet many days, and taking leave of the disciples, he set sail for Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having cut off his hair at Cenchrea: for he had a vow.
And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself went into the synagogue, and discoursed with the Jews.
But when they were importunate with him to prolong his stay among them, he consented not;
but took his leave of them, saying, I must by any means keep the approaching feast at Jerusalem: but I mean to return to you again, if God so please. So he sailed from Ephesus.
And landing at Cesarea, he went up, and having saluted the church at Jerusalem, he went down to Antioch.
And after making some stay, he departed, passing in regular order through the Galatian district, and Phrygia, confirming all the disciples.
Now a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, a man of eloquence, who was powerful in the Scriptures, had come to Ephesus.
He was instructed in the way of the Lord: and being fervent in spirit, he spake and taught very diligently the things concerning the Lord, though knowing only the baptism of John.
So this man began to speak with great boldness in the synagogue: but when Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him home with them, and more accurately expounded to him the way of the Lord.
And when he wished to pass over to Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him; who arriving, contributed much to confirm those who believed through grace.
For he strenuously argued with the Jews in public, demonstrating by the Scriptures that Jesus is the Messiah.