And answering, Jesus again spoke to them in parables, saying:
The kingdom of Heaven is compared to a man, a king, who made a wedding feast for his son.
And he sent his slaves to call those who had been invited to the wedding feast, but they did not desire to come.
Again, he sent other slaves, saying, Tell the ones invited, Behold, I have prepared my supper; my oxen, and the fatlings are killed, and all things ready; come to the wedding feast.
But not caring they went away, one to his own field, and one to his trading.
And the rest, seizing his slaves, insulted and killed them .
And hearing, the king became angry. And sending his armies, he destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
Then he said to his slaves, Indeed, the wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy.
Then go onto the exits of the highways and call to the wedding feast as many as you may find.
And going out into the highways, those slaves gathered all, as many as they found, both evil and good. And the wedding feast was filled with reclining guests.
And the king coming in to look over those reclining, he saw a man there not having been dressed in a wedding garment.
And he said to him, Friend, how did you come in here, not having a wedding garment? But he was speechless.
Then the king said to the servants, Binding his feet and hands, take him away and throw him out into the outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of the teeth.
For many are called, but few chosen.
Then going, the Pharisees took counsel so as they might trap Him in words.
And they sent to Him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that you are true, and teach the way of God in truth, and it does not concern you about anyone, for you do not look to the face of men.
Then tell us, what do you think? Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
But knowing their wickedness, Jesus said, Why do you test Me, hypocrites?
Show Me the tribute coin. And they brought a denarius to Him.
And He said to them, Whose image and inscription is this?
They said to Him, Caesar's. Then He said to them, Then give to Caesar the things of Caesar, and to God the things of God.
And hearing, they marveled. And leaving Him, they went away.
On that day, Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to Him. And they questioned Him,
saying, Teacher, Moses said, If any should die not having children, his brother shall marry his wife, and shall raise up seed to his brother. Deut. 25:5
And seven brothers were with us. And having married, the first expired, and not having seed left his wife to his brother.
In the same way also the second, and the third, until the seven.
And last of all, the woman also died.
Then in the resurrection, of which of the seven will she be wife? For all had her.
And answering, Jesus said to them, You err, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of God.
For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but they are as the angels of God in Heaven.
But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that spoken to you by God, saying:
"I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?" God is not God of the dead, but of the living. Ex. 3:6
And hearing, the crowds were astonished at His doctrine.
But hearing that He had silenced the Sadducees, the Pharisees were gathered together.
And one of them, a lawyer, questioned Him , testing Him, and saying,
Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?
And Jesus said to him, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind." Deut. 6:5
This is the first and great commandment.
And the second is like it: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." Lev. 19:18
On these two commandments all the Law and the Prophets hang.
But the Pharisees having been gathered, Jesus questioned them,
saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is He? They say to Him, David's.
He said to them, Then how does David in Spirit call Him Lord, saying,
"The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on My right until I place Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet?" LXX-Psa. 109:1; MT-Psa. 110:1
Then if David calls Him Lord, how is He his son?
And no one was able to answer Him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day to question Him any more.