And a famine was in the land besides the famine in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Abimelech king of the Philistines, to Gerar.
And Jehovah appeared to him and said, Do not go down into Egypt; stay in the land which I shall say to you.
Stay in this land, and I will be with you and bless you, for to you and to your seed I will give all these lands. And I will cause to rise My oath which I swore to your father Abraham.
And I will increase your seed like the stars of the heavens, and I will give to your seed all these lands. And all the nations of the earth shall bless themselves in your seed,
because Abraham listened to My voice and heeded My charge, My commands, My statutes, and My laws.
And Isaac lived in Gerar.
And the men of the place asked about his wife. And he said, She is my sister, for he was afraid to say, My wife, lest the men of the place kill me on account of Rebekah, for she was beautiful of form.
And it happened when his days were many to him there, Abimelech king of the Philistines looked through the window and saw; and, behold, Isaac was sporting with his wife Rebekah.
And Abimelech called Isaac and said, See, surely she is your wife, and how have you said, She is my sister? And Isaac said to him, Because I said, lest I die on account of her.
And Abimelech said, What is this you have done to us? One of the people had in a little lain with your wife, and you would have caused to come on us guilt.
And Abimelech commanded all the people, saying, Anyone touching this man and his wife shall surely be put to death.
And Isaac sowed in that land. And a hundredfold was found in that year, and Jehovah blessed him.
And the man grew great, and he went on, going on to be great, until he became exceedingly great.
And possessions of flocks and possessions of herds, and many slaves were his. And the Philistines envied him.
And all the wells which the slaves of his father dug in the days of his father Abraham, the Philistines had stopped them and filled them with dirt.
And Abimelech said to Isaac, Go from us, for you are stronger than we.
And Isaac went from there and camped in Gerar Valley, and lived there.
And Isaac returned and dug the wells of water which they dug in the days of his father Abraham; and the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham. And he called names to them like the names which his father had called them.
And Isaac's slaves dug in the torrent-bed, and they found there a well of flowing water.
And the shepherds of Gerar fought with the shepherds of Isaac, saying, The water is ours; and he called the name of the well, Contention, for they had contended with him.
And they dug another well, and they also fought over it; and he called its name, Opposition.
And he moved from there and dug another well, and they did not fight over it; and he called its name, Broad Places. And he said, For now Jehovah has broadened for us and we shall be fruitful in the land.
And he went from there to Beersheba.
And Jehovah appeared to him in the same night, and said, I am the God of your father Abraham; do not fear, for I am with you; and I will bless you and increase your seed, because of My servant Abraham.
And he built an altar there and called on the name of Jehovah. And he pitched his tent there. And the slaves of Isaac dug a well there.
And Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and his aide Ahuzzath, and Phicol the general of his army.
And Isaac said to them, Why have you come to me, since you hate me and sent me away from you?
And they said, Since we plainly have seen that Jehovah has been with you, and we have said, let there be an oath now between us, between us and you, and let us cut a covenant with you,
whether you will do with us evil, as we did not touch you, and as we did only good with you, and we sent you away in peace you now being blessed of Jehovah.
And he made a feast for them, and they ate and drank.
And they started up early at dawn, and each swore to his brother. And Isaac sent them away, and they left him in peace.
And it happened on that day Isaac's slaves came and told him about the well which they had dug, and said to him, We found water.
And he called it Shebah; so the name of the city is The Well of Sheba until this day.
And Esau was a son of forty years. And he took a wife, Judith, the daughter of Beeri the Hittite; also Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite.
And they were a grief of spirit to Isaac and to Rebekah.