When a man steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it, or sells it, he shall pay five cattle for the ox, and four sheep for the sheep.
If the thief is found breaking in, and is stricken and dies, no blood shall be shed for him.
If the sun has risen on him, blood is due for him; surely he shall repay. If he has nothing, then he should be sold for his theft.
If the stolen thing is surely found in his hand alive, from ox to ass to flock animal, he shall pay double.
When a man consumes a field or a vineyard, and he lets his beast loose and it consumes another's field, he shall repay the best of his field and the best of his vineyard.
When fire breaks out and finds thorns, and shocked grain, or standing grain, or the field is burned up, surely the one kindling the fire shall repay.
When a man gives silver or vessels to his neighbor to keep, and it is stolen from the man's house, if the thief is found, he shall repay double.
If the thief is not found, the master of the house shall be brought to God, whether or not he put out his hand to his neighbor's goods.
In every case of trespass, for ox, for ass, for sheep, for clothing, for anything lost of which it is said that it is his, the case of both of them shall come to God. Whom God declares guilty, he shall repay double to his neighbor.
When a man gives an ass or an ox to his neighbor; or a sheep, or any animal to keep, and it dies, or is injured, or is captured, no one seeing it,
an oath of Jehovah shall be between them both, that he has not put his hand to his neighbor's goods. And its owner shall take it, and he shall not repay.
And if it is indeed stolen from him, he shall repay to its owner.
If it is completely torn in pieces, he shall bring it as a witness; he shall not repay that which was torn.
And when a man borrows from his neighbor, and it is hurt, or dies, its owner not being with it, surely he shall repay.
If its owner is with it, he shall not repay. If it is hired, it comes for its hire.
And when a man lures a virgin who is not betrothed, and lies with her, he shall surely pay her dowry for a wife to himself.
If her father absolutely refuses to give her to him, he shall weigh money according to the dowry of virgins.
You shall not allow a sorceress to live.
Anyone lying with an animal, he surely shall be put to death.
One sacrificing to a god shall be destroyed, unless it is only to Jehovah.
You shall not be violent toward an alien. You shall not oppress him, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt.
You shall not afflict an orphan or a widow.
If you afflict him, if he at all cries to Me, I will surely hear his cry,
and My anger shall glow, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall become widows, and your sons orphans.
If you lend money to My people, the poor with you, you shall not be as a money-lender to him; you shall not put interest on him.
If you indeed take the clothing of your neighbor as a pledge, you shall return it to him by the going of the sun,
for that is his only covering, that is his covering for his skin. In what shall he lie down? And it shall be, when he cries to Me, I will hear, for I am compassionate.
You shall not revile God, and you shall not curse a ruler among your people.
You shall not delay giving your harvest and your vintage. You shall give to Me the first born of your sons.
So you shall do to your oxen, to your sheep: it shall be seven days with its mother; on the eighth day you shall give it to Me. And you shall be holy men to Me.
Any you shall be holy men to Me. And you shall not eat flesh torn in pieces in the field; you shall throw it to the dogs.