Then he took me unto the temple,—and measured the projection six cubits broad on this side and six cubits broad on that side, the breadth of the tent.
And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits and the sides of the entrance were five cubits on this side and five cubits on that side —and he measured the length thereof, forty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits.
Then went he inwards, and measured the projection of the entrance, two cubits,—and the entrance itself was six cubits, and the sides of the entrance seven cubits:
so he measured the length thereof twenty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits, at the front of the temple.
Then said he unto me This! is the holy of holies. Then measured he the wall of the house six cubits,—and the breadth of the side-chamber, four cubits round about on every side of the house round about.
And the side-chambers, one over another were three, and that thirty times, and they entered into the wall which pertained to the house for the side-chambers round about on every side that they might have support, -and yet not have support in the wall of the house itself.
And there was a broadening and a winding about higher and higher to the side-chambers, for the circuit of the house! was higher and higher round about on every side of the house, for this cause was there a broadening of the house upwards,—and from the lower, one ascended to the higher, by that which was in the middle,
Then saw I that the house had a height round about on every side,—the foundations of the side- chambers, a full reed, six cubits to the joining.
The breadth of the wall which pertained to the side-chamber on the outside was five cubits,- and that which was left vacant between the side-chambers which pertained to the house.
And between the chambers, was a breadth of twenty cubits round about the house round about on every side,
And the entrance of the side-chamber, was at the vacant space, one entrance toward the north, and another entrance, toward the south,—and the breadth of the place left vacant was five cubits round about on every side.
And the building which was toward the front of the secluded place on the side toward the west was in breadth seventy cubits, and the wall of the building was five cubits in breadth round about on every side, -and the length thereof ninety cubits.
And he measured the house, in length, a hundred cubits,—and the secluded place and the structure and the walls thereof, in length, a hundred cubits.
And the breadth of the front of the house and the secluded place toward the east, a hundred cubits.
And he measured the length of the building against the front of the secluded place which was over the hinder part thereof and the galleries thereof on this side and on that side a hundred cubits,—with the inner temple and the porches of the court:
the entrance spaces and the latticed windows and the galleries round about their three stories, over against the entrance spaces wainscoted with wood, round about on every side,—and from the ground up to the windows, and the windows, were covered;
unto the space above the entrance even unto the inner house and without and against all the wall round about on every side within and without, were the measures
And it was made with cherubim and palm-trees,—with a palm-tree between cherub and cherub, and two faces had each cherub;
and, the face of a man, was toward the palm-tree on this side, and, the face of a young lion, was toward the palm-tree on that side,—[thus was it] made unto all the house, round about on every side.
From the ground as far as the space above the entrance: were the cherubim and the palm-trees made.
As for the wall of the temple, the door-posts were squared,—and as for the face of the holy place, the appearance was like the appearance [of the temple] .
The altar, was of wood, three cubits in height and the length thereof, two cubits and the corners thereof and the length thereof and the walls thereof were of wood,—then spake he unto me saying, This, is the table, which is before Yahweh.
And there were two doors, to the temple, and to the holy place;
and two leaves to the doors,—two folding leaves, two to the one door and two to the other door.
And there had been made unto them unto the doors of the temple cherubim and palm-trees, like as had been made to the walls,—and thick beams of wood unto the front of the porch without.
And there were latticed windows and palm-trees on this side and on that side, unto the sides of the porch,—and unto the side chambers of the house and the thick beams.