So then, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord this way beloved.
I exhort Euodias, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same way in the Lord.
Yes, I ask thee also, genuine yokefellow, help them-the women who labored with me in the good news-with Clement also, and the rest of my co-workmen whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice.
Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is near.
Be anxious about nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thankfulness make your requests known to God.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
Finally brothers, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are commendable, if anything is a virtue, and if anything is praiseworthy, think on these things.
And what ye learned and received and heard and saw in me, these things do, and the God of peace will be with you.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last ye have revived thinking about me, in which also ye were thinking, but ye lacked opportunity.
Not that I speak regarding need, for I have learned in what things I am to be content.
I know both how to be abased and how to abound. In everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be lacking.
I can do all things in the Christ who strengthens me.
Nevertheless ye did well having shared with my affliction.
And ye Philippians also have seen that, in the beginning of the good news when I departed from Macedonia, not one congregation shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving except ye only,
because also in Thessalonica ye sent both once and again to my need.
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account.
But I receive all things, and I abound. I have been filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things from you, an aroma of fragrance, an acceptable sacrifice well-pleasing to God.
And my God will fill your every need according to his wealth in glory in Christ Jesus.
Now to our God and Father is the glory into the ages of the ages. Truly.
Salute every sanctified man in Christ Jesus. The brothers with me salute you.
All the sanctified salute you, and especially those of the house of Caesar.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ is with you all. Truly.