Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble. For the day of Jehovah comes, for it is near at hand,
a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, as the dawn spreads upon the mountains, a great people and a strong, there has not ever been the like, nor shall be any more after them, even to the years of many generations.
A fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness. Yea, and none has escaped them.
The appearance of them is as the appearance of horses, and as horsemen, so do they run.
They leap like the noise of chariots on the tops of the mountains, like the noise of a flame of fire that devours the stubble, as a strong people set in battle array.
At their presence the peoples are in anguish; all faces have grown pale.
They run like mighty men. They climb the wall like men of war, and they march each one on his ways. And they do not break their ranks.
Neither does one push another. They march each one in his path, and they burst through the weapons, and do not break off.
They leap upon the city. They run upon the wall. They climb up into the houses. They enter in at the windows like a thief.
The earth quakes before them. The heavens tremble. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
And Jehovah utters his voice before his army, for his camp is very great. For he is strong who executes his word. For the day of Jehovah is great and very fearful, and who can abide it?
Yet even now, says Jehovah, turn ye to me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning.
And rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn to Jehovah your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and relents of the evil.
Who knows whether he will not turn and relent, and leave a blessing behind him, even a meal offering and a drink offering to Jehovah your God?
Blow the trumpet in Zion. Sanctify a fast. Call a solemn assembly.
Gather the people. Sanctify the assembly. Assemble the old men. Gather the sons, and those who suck the breasts. Let the bridegroom go forth from his chamber, and the bride out of her closet.
Let the priests, the ministers of Jehovah, weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O Jehovah, and do not give thy heritage to reproach, that the nations should rule over them. Why should they say among the peoples, Where is their God?
Then Jehovah was jealous for his land, and had pity on his people.
And Jehovah answered and said to his people, Behold, I will send you grain, and new wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith. And I will no more make you a reproach among the nations.
But I will remove the northern army far off from you, and will drive it into a land barren and desolate, its forepart into the eastern sea, and its rear part into the western sea. And its stench shall come up, and its foul odor shall come up, because it has done great things.
Fear not, O land. Be glad and rejoice, for Jehovah has done great things.
Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness spring, for the tree bears its fruit, the fig tree and the vine yield their strength.
Be glad then, ye sons of Zion, and rejoice in Jehovah your God, for he gives you the former rain in just measure, and he causes the rain to come down for you, the former rain and the latter rain, in the first month.
And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shall overflow with new wine and oil.
And I will restore to you the years that the locust, the canker-worm, and the caterpillar, and the palmer-worm has eaten-my great army which I sent among you.
And ye shall eat in plenty and be satisfied. And shall praise the name of Jehovah your God, who has dealt wondrously with you. And my people shall never be put to shame.
And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am Jehovah your God, and there is none else. And my people shall never be put to shame.
And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. Your old men shall dream dreams. Your young men shall see visions.
And also I will pour out my Spirit upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days.
And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke.
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and wonderful day of Jehovah comes.
And it shall come to pass, that whoever shall call on the name of Jehovah shall be saved. For in mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as Jehovah has said, and among the remnant those whom Jehovah calls.