Then said Elisha—Hear ye the word of Yahweh,—Thus, saith Yahweh—About this time to-morrow, a measure of fine meal for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.
Then the officer on whose hand the king leaned responded to the man of God, and said, Even if Yahweh were making windows in the heavens, could this thing, come to pass? And he said—Lo! thou, art about to see it with thine own eyes, but, thereof, shalt thou not eat!
Now there were, four men, lepers, at the entrance of the gate,—and they said one to another—Why are, we, sitting here until we are dead?
If we say—Let us enter into the city, Then, the famine, is in the city, and we shall die there, and, if we remain here, then shall we die. Now, therefore, let us fall away unto the camp of the Syrians, if they save us alive, we shall live, and, if they put us to death, we shall die.
So they rose up in the twilight, to enter into the camp of the Syrians,—and, when they entered the outskirts of the camp of the Syrians, lo! there was not there, a man.
Now, the Lord, had caused the camp of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots, noise of horses, a noise of a great host,—and they said one to another—Lo! the king of Israel hath hired against us—the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come against us.
So they arose, and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their asses,—the camp, just as it was,—and fled for their lives.
When, therefore, these lepers came in as far as the outskirts of the camp, they entered into one tent, and did eat and drink, and carried from thence silver, and gold, and raiment, and went away and hid them,—and came again, and entered into another tent, and carried from thence—and went and hid them.
Then said they one to another—Not a right thing, are, we, doing. This day, is, a day of good tidings, and, we, are holding our peace, if we tarry until the light of the morning, there will come upon us, some misfortune,—Now, therefore, come and let us go in, and tell the household of the king.
So they came in and called unto the gate of the city, and told them, saying, We entered into the camp of the Syrians, and lo! there was not there, a man, nor sound of human being,—only horses tied, and asses tied, and their tents, just as they were!
And the watchers of the gate called and told it to the household of the king, within.
Then arose the king by night, and said unto his servants, Let me tell you, I pray you, what the Syrians have done to us,—they knew that we were, famished, so they have gone forth out of the camp, to hide in the field, saying, When they come forth out of the city, then shall we take them alive, and, into the city, will we enter.
Then responded one of his servants, and said—Let there be taken, I pray thee, five of the horses that remain, which have been left therein, there they are, according to all the multitude of Israel who have been left therein, there they are, according to all the multitude of Israel, who have been consumed,—and let us send and see!
So they took two chariots and horses,—and the king sent after the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see!
And they followed them as far as the Jordan, and lo! all the way, was full of garments, and utensils, which the Syrians had cast away in their fright,—and the messengers returned, and told the king.
Then went the people forth and spoiled the camp of the Syrians,—and so there came to be—a measure of fine meal for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of Yahweh.
Now, the king, had set the officer on whose hand he leaned, in charge over the gate, and the people trode upon him in the gate, that he died,—as spake the man of God, who said it when the messenger came down to him.
Yea it came to pass, as the man of God had spoken unto the messenger, saying,—Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine meal for a shekel, shall there be about this time to-morrow, in the gate of Samaria:
And when the officer responded to the man of God, and said, Lo! then, if Yahweh were making windows in the heavens, could it be according to this word? And he said,—Lo! thou art about to see it with thine own eyes, but, thereof, shalt thou not eat.
Yea it fell out to him, thus,—and the people trode upon him in the gate, that he died.