Then Job answered Jehovah, and said:
I know that thou canst do every thing, And that no purpose of thine can be hindered.
Who is he that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? Thus have I uttered what I understood not; Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not:
Hear thou, then, I beseech thee, and I will speak! I will ask thee, and do thou instruct me!
I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear; But now hath mine eye seen thee.
Wherefore I abhor myself, And repent in dust and ashes.
And when Jehovah had spoken these words unto Job, he said to Eliphaz the Temanite: "My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends; for ye have not spoken concerning me that which is right, as hath my servant Job.
Take ye, therefore, seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer for yourselves a burnt-offering, and my servant Job shall pray for you; for to him alone will I have regard; that I deal not with you according to your folly. For ye have not spoken concerning me that which is right, as hath my servant Job."
So Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, went and did as Jehovah commanded them; and Jehovah had regard to Job.
And Jehovah turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends, and Jehovah gave him twice as much as he had before.
Then came to him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all his former acquaintances, and ate bread with him in his house; and condoled with him, and comforted him over all the evil which Jehovah had brought upon him; and every one gave him a piece of money [a kesita], and every one a ring of gold.
Thus Jehovah blessed the latter end of Job more than the beginning; for he had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she-asses.
He had also seven sons, and three daughters.
And he called the name of the first Jemima, of the second Kezia, and of the third Kerenhappuch.
And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job; and their father gave them an inheritance among their brethren.
And Job lived after this a hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons’ sons, even four generations.
Then Job died, being old and satisfied with days.