Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me.
In my Father's house are many dwellings, and if not, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I come again, and will take you along to myself, so that where I am, ye may be also.
And ye know where I go, and ye know the way.
Thomas says to him, Lord, we know not where thou go. How can we know the way?
Jesus says to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father, except by me.
If ye had known me, ye would have known my Father also. And from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him.
Philip says to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.
Jesus says to him, Have I been so long a time with you, and thou do not know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. And how can thou say, Show us the Father?
Do thou not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The sayings that I speak to you I speak not from myself, but the Father who dwells in me, he does the works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me. But if not, believe me because of the works themselves.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, that man will also do. And he will do greater than these, because I go to the Father.
And anything whatever ye may ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If ye will ask me anything in my name, I will do it.
If ye love me, keep my commandments.
And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, so that he may dwell with you into the age,
the Spirit of truth, which the world cannot receive, because it does not see nor know it. But ye know it, because it dwells with you, and will be in you.
I will not leave you orphaned. I am coming to you.
Yet a little while, and the world sees me no more, but ye see me. Because I live, ye will also live.
In that day ye will know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.
He who has my commandments, and keeps them, that man it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
Judas (not Iscariot) says to him, Lord, and what has happened that thou are going to manifest thyself to us, and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, If any man loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make a dwelling with him.
He who does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that ye hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me.
I have spoken these things to you while remaining with you.
But the helper, the Holy Spirit that the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and will remind you of all that I said to you.
Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you, not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor let it be cowardly.
Ye heard that I said to you, I go, and I come to you. If ye loved me, ye would have rejoiced because I said I go to the Father, because my Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens, ye might believe.
I will no longer speak many things with you, for the ruler of the world comes. And he has nothing on me,
but that the world may know that I love the Father. And as the Father commanded me, thus I do. Arise, let us go from here.