And Sarah was a hundred twenty seven years old, the years of the life of Sarah.
And Sarah died in Kirjath-arba; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan. And Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.
And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spoke to the sons of Heth, saying,
I am a stranger and a visitor with you. Give me a possession of a burying place with you, so that I may bury my dead out of my sight.
And the sons of Heth answered Abraham saying to him,
Hear us, my lord. You are a mighty prince among us. Bury your dead in the choice of our burying places. None of us shall withhold from you his burying-place from burying your dead.
And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, the sons of Heth.
And he spoke with them, saying, If it is your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and ask for me of Ephron the son of Zohar,
that he may give me the cave of Machpelah which he has, which is in the end of his field. For as much silver as it is worth he shall give it to me for a possession of a burying-place among you.
And Ephron lived among the sons of Heth. And Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the ears of the sons of Heth, of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying,
No, my lord, hear me. I give you the field, and the cave that is in it I give to you. In the presence of the sons of my people I give it to you. Bury your dead.
And Abraham bowed before the people of the land.
And he spoke to Ephron in the ears of the people of the land, saying, Only if you would hear me. I will give you silver for the field. Take it from me, and I will bury my dead there.
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him,
My lord, listen to me. The land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that between me and you? And bury your dead.
And Abraham listened to Ephron. And Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver which he had named in the hearing of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, which passes with the merchant.
And the field of Ephron was certified, which was Machpelah, which was before Mamre; the field and the cave which was in it, and all the trees in the field, in all the borders round about,
to Abraham for a possession in the presence of the sons of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.
And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave at the field of Machpelah before Mamre, which is Hebron, in the land of Canaan.
And the field, and the cave that is in it, were certified to Abraham for a possession of a burying place by the sons of Heth.