Are we to begin again, ourselves, to commend? or have we need, like some, of commendatory letters unto you, or from you?
Our letter, ye, are, inscribed in our hearts, noted and read by all men:
Manifesting yourselves that ye are a letter of Christ, ministered by us,—inscribed—not with ink, but with [the] Spirit of a Living God, not in tablets of stone, but in tablets [which are] hearts of flesh.
But, such confidence as this, have we, through the Christ, towards God.
Not that, of our own selves, sufficient, are we, to reckon anything as of ourselves, but, our sufficiency, is of God;—
Who also hath made us sufficient to be ministers of a new covenant—not of letter, but of spirit, for, the letter, killeth, whereas, the Spirit, maketh alive.
But, if, the ministry of death, in letters engraven in stones, was brought into existence with glory, so that the sons of Israel could not look steadfastly into the face of Moses, by reason of the glory of his face—which [glory] was to be done away,
How shall not, rather, the ministry of the Spirit, be with glory?
For, if, the ministry of condemnation was glory, much rather, doth the ministry of righteousness abound with glory,
For that which hath been made glorious, hath not even been made glorious, in this respect,—by reason of the surpassing glory.
For, if that which was to be done away [was brought in] with glory, much more, that which is to abide, is in glory.
Having, then, such hope as this, great openness of speech, do we use;—
And are not just like Moses, [who] kept putting a veil upon his face, so that the sons of Israel should not look steadily unto the end of that which was to be done away.
But their thoughts were turned into stone: for, until this very day, the same veil, upon the reading of the old covenant, abideth, not to be removed, because, in Christ, it is to be done away;
But, until this day, whensoever Moses is read, a veil upon their heart, doth lie;
Howbeit, whensoever he turneth unto [the] Lord, he taketh off the veil:
And, the Lord, is, the Spirit: now, where the Spirit of one who is Lord [is, there is] freedom!
And, we all, with unveiled face, receiving and reflecting, the glory of [the] Lord, into the same image, are being transformed, from glory into glory,—even as from a Spirit that is Lord.