Again David gathered every chosen one in Israel, thirty thousand.
And David arose and went with all the people with him from beyond Baale of Judah, to bring up the ark of God from there, which is called by the Name, the Name of the LORD of hosts who dwells above the cherubs.
And they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab in Gibeah. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart.
And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab at Gibeah, going with the ark of God. And Ahio went before the ark.
And David and all the house of Israel were dancing the LORD on all instruments of fir wood, with lyres and with harps, and with tambourines, and with sistra, and with cymbals.
And when they came to Nachon's threshing-floor, Uzzah reached out to the ark of God, and took hold of it; for the oxen stumbled.
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah. And God struck him there for the error. And he died there by the ark of God.
And David was displeased because the LORD had broken forth upon Uzzah. And he called the name of the place The Break of Uzzah to this day.
And David was afraid of the LORD that day, and said, How shall the ark of the LORD come to me?
And David was not willing to bring the ark of the LORD to him into the city of David. But David carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
And the ark of the LORD stayed in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months. And the LORD blessed Obed-edom and all his household.
And they told king David, saying, The LORD has blessed the house of Obed-edom, and all that belongs to him, because of the ark of God. And David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with gladness.
And it happened that when those who bore the ark of the LORD had gone six steps, he sacrificed oxen and fatlings.
And David danced before the LORD with all his might. And David was girded with a linen ephod.
And David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the LORD with shouting, and with the sound of the ram's horn.
And it happened as the ark of the LORD came to the city of David, Michal, Saul's daughter, looked through a window and saw king David leaping and dancing before the LORD. And she despised him in her heart.
And they brought in the ark of the LORD and set it in its place in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it. And David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.
And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of hosts.
And he gave out among all the people, among all the multitude of Israel, to the women as well as men, to each one a cake of bread and one raisin-cake. And all the people departed, each one to his house.
And David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!
And David said to Michal, It was before the LORD, who chose me before your father, and before all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of the LORD, over Israel. And I danced before the LORD.
And I will be still lower than this, and will be base in my own sight. And of the handmaids of whom you have spoken, with them I shall be had in honor.
And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death.