And he sayd vnto his disciples: Let not youre hertes be troubled. Beleve in god and beleve in me.
In my fathers housse are many mansions. If it were not so I wolde have tolde you. I go to prepare a place for you.
And yf I go to prepare a place for you I will come agayne and receave you eve vnto my selfe yt where I am there maye ye be also.
And whither I go ye knowe and ye waye ye knowe.
Thomas sayde vnto him: Lorde we knowe not whyther thou goest. Also how is it possible for vs to knowe the waye?
Iesus sayd vnto him: I am ye waye ye truthe and ye life. And no man cometh vnto the father but by me.
Yf ye had knowe me ye had knowe my father also. And now ye knowe him and have sene him.
Philip sayd vnto him: Lorde shew vs the father and it suffiseth vs.
Iesus sayde vnto him: have I bene so longe tyme wt you: and yet hast thou not knowen me? Philip he yt hath sene me hath sene ye father. And how sayest thou then: shew vs the father?
Belevest thou not that I am in ye father and the father in me? The wordes that I speake vnto you I speakee not of my selfe: but ye father that dwelleth in me is he that doeth ye workes.
Beleve me that I am the father and ye father in me. At the leest beleve me for the very workes sake.
Verely verely I saye vnto you: he that beleveth on me the workes that I doo the same shall he do and greater workes then these shall he do because I go vnto my father.
And what soever ye axe in my name yt will I do yt the father might be glorified by the sonne.
Yf ye shall axe eny thige in my name I will do it
If ye love me kepe my comaundementes
and I will praye the father and he shall geve you a nother comforter yt he maye byde with you ever
which is the sprete of truthe whome the worlde canot receave because the worlde seyth him not nether knoweth him. But ye knowe him. For he dwelleth with you and shalbe in you.
I will not leave you comfortlesse: but will come vnto you.
Yet a litell whyle and the worlde seith me no moare: but ye shall se me. For I live and ye shall live.
That daye shall ye knowe that I am in my father and you in me and I in you
He that hath my comaundemetes and kepeth them the same is he that loveth me. And he yt loveth me shall be loved of my father: and I will love him and will shewe myne awne selfe vnto him.
Iudas sayde vnto him (not Iudas Iscarioth) Lorde what is the cause that thou wilt shewe thy selfe vnto vs and not vnto the worlde?
Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: yf a man love me and wyll kepe my sayinges my father also will love him and we will come vnto him and will dwelle with him.
He that loveth me not kepeth not my sayinges. And the wordes which ye heare are not myne but the fathers which sent me.
This have I spoken vnto you beynge yet present with you.
But that coforter which is the holy gost (whom my father will sende in my name) he shall teache you all thinges and bringe all thinges to youre remembraunce whatsoever I have tolde you.
Peace I leve with you my peace I geve vnto you. Not as the worlde geveth geve I vnto you. Let not youre hertes be greved nether feare ye.
Ye have hearde how I sayde vnto you: I go and come agayne vnto you. If ye loved me ye wolde verely reioyce because I sayde I go vnto ye father. For ye father is greater then I
And now have I shewed you before it come yt whe it is come to passe ye might beleve.
Here after will I not talke many mordes vnto you. For the rular of this worlde commeth and hath nought in me.
But that the worlde maye knowe that I love the father: therfore as the father gave me comaundment even so do I. Ryse let vs go hence.