And straightaway in the morning the chief priests with the elders and scholars and the whole council, having made a plan, after binding Jesus, they took him away, and delivered him up to Pilate.
And Pilate questioned him, Are thou the king of the Jews? And having answered, he said to him, Thou say.
And the chief priests accused him of many things.
And Pilate again questioned him, saying, Thou answer nothing? Behold how many things they testify against thee.
But Jesus answered nothing any more, so as for Pilate to wonder.
Now during a feast he released to them one prisoner, whomever they requested.
And a man who was called Barabbas was with the rebels who were bound, men who had committed murder during the insurrection.
And having cried aloud, the multitude began to ask as he was always doing for them.
And Pilate answered them, saying, Do ye wish that I would release to you the king of the Jews?
For he knew that the chief priests had delivered him up because of envy.
But the chief priests incited the crowd, so that he would release Barabbas to them instead.
And again having answered, Pilate said to them, What then do ye wish I would do to the man whom ye call the king of the Jews?
And they cried out again, Crucify him.
And Pilate said to them, For what evil has he done? But they cried out even more, Crucify him.
And Pilate, wanting to do what was sufficient for the crowd, released Barabbas to them. And he delivered Jesus, after scourging, so that he might be crucified.
And the soldiers led him away inside the courtyard, which is the Praetorium, and they call together the whole band.
And they put purple clothing on him, and clothe him with a woven crown of thorns,
and began to salute him, Hail, king of the Jews!
And they struck his head with a reed, and spat upon him, and bowing their knees worshiped him.
And when they had mocked him, they took the purple garment off of him, and dressed him with his own garments. And they lead him out so that they might crucify him.
And they draft a certain Simon, a Cyrenian passing by coming from the countryside, the father of Alexander and Rufus, so that he would take his cross.
And they bring him to the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, the place of a skull.
And they gave him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but he did not take it.
And having crucified him, they divided his garments, casting a lot for them, who would take what.
And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
And the inscription of his accusation was inscribed, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And they crucify two robbers with him, one at his right hand, and one at his left.
And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, And he was reckoned with lawless men.
And those who passed by railed at him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ha! Thou who destroy the temple, and build it in three days,
save thyself, and come down from the cross.
Likewise also the chief priests mocking among each other with the scholars said, He saved others, he cannot save himself.
Let the Christ, the king of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe in him. And those who were crucified with him reviled him.
And having become the sixth hour, darkness occurred over the whole land until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried out in a great voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why have thou forsaken me?
And some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calls Elijah.
And one having ran, and having filled a sponge of vinegar, and having placed it on a reed, gave him to drink, saying, Leave be. We might see if Elijah comes to take him down.
And having given out a great voice, Jesus expired.
And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom.
And when the centurion, who stood from opposite him, saw that he expired, having cried out this way, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God.
And there were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were also Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the small man, and of Joses, and Salome;
women who also followed him and served him when he was in Galilee, also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.
And now having become evening, since it was the Preparation, that is, pre-sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathaea came, an honorable councilman who also himself was awaiting the kingdom of God, emboldened, he went in near Pilate, and requested the body of Jesus.
And Pilate wondered if he died already. And having summoned the centurion, he questioned him if he was already dead.
And having ascertained from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph.
And having bought fine linen, and having taken him down, he wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a sepulcher, being that which had been hewn out of rock. And he rolled a stone to the door of the sepulcher.
And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.