Happy they whose life is blameless, who walk by the law of the Lord.
Happy they who keep his charges, and seek him with all their hearts;
who have done no wrong, but walk in his ways.
You yourself have appointed your precepts to be kept with diligence.
O to be steadily guided in the keeping of your statutes!
Then unashamed shall I be, when I look towards all your commandments.
I will thank you with heart unfeigned, when I learn your righteous judgments.
I will observe your statutes: O forsake me not utterly.
How can a young person keep their life pure? By giving heed to your word.
With all my heart have I sought you, let me not stray from your commandments.
In my heart have I treasured your word, to keep from sinning against you.
Blessed are you, O Lord; teach me your statutes.
With my lips have I rehearsed all the judgments of your mouth.
I delight in the way of your charges, more than in riches of all sorts.
I will muse upon your precepts, and look to your paths.
In your statutes I delight, I will not forget your word.
Grant that your servant may live, and I will observe your word.
Open my eyes, that I see wondrous things out of your law.
But a guest am I on the earth: hide not your commandments from me.
My heart is crushed with longing for your ordinances, at all times.
You rebuke the proud, the accursed, who wander from your commandments.
Roll away from me scorn and contempt, for I have observed your charges.
Though princes sit plotting against me, your servant will muse on your statutes.
Your charges are my delight, they are my counsellors.
I lie grovelling in the dust; revive me, as you have promised.
I told of my ways, you made answer; teach me your statutes.
Grant me insight into your precepts, and I will muse on your wonders.
I am overcome with sorrow; raise me up, as you have promised.
Put the way of falsehood from me, and graciously grant me your law.
I have chosen the way of fidelity, your ordinances I long for.
I hold fast to your charges: O put me not, Lord, to shame.
I will run in the way of your commandments, for you give me room of heart.
Teach me, O Lord, the way of your statutes, and I will keep it to the end,
instruct me to keep your law, and I will observe it with all my heart.
Guide me in the path of your commandments, for therein do I delight.
Incline my heart to your charges, and not to greed of gain.
Turn away my eyes from vain sights, revive me by your word.
Confirm to your servant the promise which is given to those who fear you.
Remove the reproach which I dread, because your judgments are good.
Behold, I long for your precepts. Quicken me in your righteousness.
Visit me, Lord, with your love and salvation, as you have promised.
So shall I answer my slanderers, for my trust is in your word.
Snatch not from my mouth the word of truth, for in your judgments I hope.
I will keep your law continually, for ever and evermore.
So shall I walk in wide spaces, for I give my mind to your precepts.
I will speak of your charge before kings, and will not be ashamed thereof.
Your commandments are my delight, I love them exceedingly.
I will lift up my hands to your commandments, and muse upon your statutes.
Remember your word to your servant, on which you have made me to hope.
This is my comfort in trouble, that your word gives life to me.
The arrogant utterly scorn me, but I have not declined from your law.
When I think of your judgments of old, O Lord, I take to me comfort.
I am seized with glowing anger at the wicked who forsake your law.
Your statutes have been to me songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
I remember your name in the night, O Lord and observe your law.
My lot has been this, that I have kept your precepts.
My portion are you, O Lord: I have promised to keep your words.
I entreat you with all my heart; grant me your promised favour.
I have thought upon my ways, and turned my feet to your charges.
I hasted and tarried not to give heed to your commandments.
Though the godless have wound their cords round me, I have not forgotten your law.
At midnight I rise to praise you because of your righteous judgments.
With all those who fear you I company, aid with those who observe your precepts.
The earth, Lord, is full of your kindness; teach me your Statutes.
Well have you dealt with your servant, as you have promised, O Lord.
Teach me discretion and knowledge, for I have believed your commandments.
Till trouble came I was a wanderer, but now I observe your word.
You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.
The proud have forged lies against me, but I keep your precepts with all my heart.
Their heart is gross like fat, but I delight in your law.
It was good for me to be humbled, that I should learn your statutes.
The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of pieces of silver and gold.
Your hands have made me and fashioned me; make me wise to learn your commandments.
Those who fear you shall see me with joy, for in your word have I hoped.
I know, O Lord, that your judgments are right, and in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
Let your love be a comfort to me, for so have you promised your servant.
Visit me with your quickening pity, for your law is my delight.
Put the proud to shame, who have wronged me falsely: I will muse on your precepts.
Let those turn to me who fear you, that they may learn your charges.
Let my heart be sound in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame.
My long for you to rescue me, I put my hope in your word.
My eyes pine away for your promise: saying, “When will you comfort me?”
Though shrivelled like wine-skin in smoke, your statutes I have not forgotten.
How few are the days of your servant! When will you judge those who harass me?
Proud people have dug for me pits people who do not conform to your law.
All your commandments are trusty. With falsehood they harass me: help me.
They had nearly made an end of me, yet I did not forget your precepts.
Spare me in your kindness, and I will observe the charge of your mouth.
Forever, O Lord, is your word fixed firmly in the heavens.
Your truth endures age after age; it is established on earth, and it stands.
By your appointment they stand this day, for all are your servants.
Had not your law been my joy, in my misery then had I perished.
I will never forget your precepts, for through them you have put life in me.
I am yours, O save me, for I give my mind to your precepts.
The wicked lay wait to destroy me, but I give heed to your charge.
I have seen a limit to all things: but your commandment is spacious exceedingly.
O how I love your law! All the day long I muse on it.
Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies: for it is mine forever.
I am prudent above all my teachers, for your charges are my meditation.
I have insight more than the aged, because I observe your precepts.
I refrain my foot from all wicked ways, that I may keep your word.
I turn not aside from your judgments, for you yourself are my teacher.
How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Insight I win through your precepts, therefore every false way I hate.
Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path.
I have sworn an oath, and will keep it, to observe your righteous judgments.
I am afflicted sorely: revive me, O Lord, as you said.
Accept, Lord, my willing praise, and teach me your judgments.
My life is in ceaseless peril; but I do not forget your law.
The wicked set traps for me, yet I do not stray from your precepts.
In your charges are my everlasting inheritance, they are the joy of my heart.
I am resolved to perform your statutes forever, to the utmost.
I hate people of divided heart, but your law do I love.
You are my shelter and shield: in your word do I hope.
Begone, you wicked people, I will keep the commands of my God.
Uphold me and spare me, as you have promised: O disappoint me not.
Hold me up, and I shall be saved: and your statutes shall be my unceasing delight.
All who swerve from your statutes you spurn: their cunning is in vain.
All the wicked of earth you count as dross, therefore I love your charges.
My flesh, for fear of you, shudders, and I stand in awe of your judgments.
Justice and right have I practised, do not leave me to my oppressors.
Be your servant’s surety for good: “Let not the proud oppress me.
My eyes pine for your salvation, and for your righteous promise.
Deal in your love with your servant, and teach me your statutes.
Your servant am I; instruct me, that I may know your charges.
It is time for the Lord to act: they have violated your law.
Therefore I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold.
So by all your precepts I guide me, and every false way I hate.
Your decrees are wonderful, gladly I keep them.
When your word is unfolded, light breaks; it imparts to the simple wisdom.
With open mouth I pant with longing for your commandments.
Turn to me with your favour, as is just to those who love you.
Steady my steps by your word, so that sin have no power over me.
Set me free from those who oppress me, and I shall observe your precepts.
Shine with your face on your servant, and teach me your statutes.
My eyes run down with rills of water, because your law is not kept.
Righteous are you, O Lord, and right are your ordinances.
The laws you has ordered are just, and trusty exceedingly.
My jealousy has undone me, that my foes have forgotten your words.
Your word has been tested well; and your servant loves it.
I am little and held in contempt, but your precepts I have not forgotten.
Just is your justice forever, and trusty is your law.
Stress and strain are upon me, but your commandments are my delight.
Right are your charges forever, instruct me that I may live.
With my whole heart I cry; O answer me. I would keep your statutes, O Lord.
I cry to you: O save me, and I will observe your charges.
Ere the dawn I cry for your help: in your word do I hope.
Awake I meet the night-watches, to muse upon your sayings.
Hear my voice in your kindness: O Lord, by your judgments revive me.
Near me are wicked tormentors, who are far from thoughts of your law;
but near, too, are you, O Lord, and all your commandments are trusty.
Long have I known from your charges that you have founded them for all time.
Look on my misery, and rescue me; for I do not forget your law.
Defend my cause and redeem me: revive me, as you have promised.
Salvation is far from the wicked, for their mind is not in your statutes.
Great is your pity, O Lord:’ Revive me, as you have ordained.
My foes and tormentors are many, but I have not declined from your charges.
I behold the traitors with loathing, for they do not observe your word.
Behold how I love your precepts: revive me, O Lord!, in your kindness.
The sum of your word is truth, all your laws are just and eternal.
Princes have harassed me wantonly: but my heart stands in awe of your word.
Over your word I rejoice as one who finds great spoil.
Falsehood I hate and abhor, but your law do I love.
Seven times a day do I praise you because of your righteous judgments.
Right well do they fare who love your law: they go on their way without stumbling.
I hope for your salvation; O Lord I do your commandments.
I observe your charges: I love them greatly.
I observe your precepts and charges: all my ways are before you.
Let my cry come before you, O Lord: give me insight, as you have promised.
Let my prayer enter into your presence: deliver me, as you have said.
My lips shall be fountains of praise, that you teach me your statutes.
My tongue shall sing of your word, for all your commandments are right.
Let your hand be ready to help me, for your precepts have been my choice.
I long, Lord, for your salvation, and your law is my delight.
Revive me that I may praise you, and let your precepts help me.
I have strayed like a wandering sheep seek your servant, because I do not forget your commandments.