My son, if you are surety for your friend, if you struck your palms with a stranger,
you are snared with the words of your mouth, you are taken with the words of your mouth.
My son, do this now, and deliver yourself when you have come into the hand of your friend; go, humble yourself and make your friend sure.
Do not give sleep to your eyes or slumber to your eyelids.
Deliver yourself as a gazelle from the hunter's hand, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.
Go to the ant, sluggard; consider her ways and be wise;
who, having no guide, overseer, or ruler,
provides her food in the summer and gathers her food in the harvest.
How long will you sleep, O sluggard? When will you arise out of your sleep?
A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to lie down;
so shall your poverty come as one who travels, and your need like an armed man.
A worthless person, a wicked man walks with a crooked mouth,
winking with his eyes, speaking with his feet, teaching with his fingers;
perversity is in his heart; he is always planning mischief; he causes fighting.
Therefore his calamity shall come suddenly; he is quickly broken, and there is no healing.
These six the LORD hates; yea, seven are hateful to his soul:
a proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,
a heart that plots wicked plans, feet hurrying to run to evil,
a false witness who speaks lies, and he who causes fighting among brothers.
My son, keep your father's commandments, and do not forsake the law of your mother;
bind them upon your heart forever, tie them around your neck.
When you go, it shall lead you; when you sleep, it shall keep you; and when you awake, it shall talk with you.
For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life;
to keep you from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.
Do not lust after her beauty in your heart; nor let her take you with her eyelids.
For by means of a harlot a man comes to a piece of bread; and another man's wife will hunt for the precious life.
Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned?
So is he who goes in to his neighbor's wife; whoever touches her shall not be innocent.
They do not despise a thief, if he steals to satisfy his soul when he is hungry;
but if he is found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the goods of his house.
Whoever commits adultery with a woman lacks understanding; he who does it destroys his own soul.
He shall get a wound and dishonor; and his shame shall not he wiped away.
For jealousy is the rage of a man; therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance.
He will not take any ransom; nor will he be willing if you multiply the gifts.