And after this I saw four agents standing at the four corners of the earth, restraining the four winds of the earth, so that wind would not blow on the earth, or on the sea, or upon any tree.
And I saw another agent ascending from the rising of the sun, having a seal of the living God. And he cried out in a great voice to the four agents to whom it was given to them to harm the earth and the sea,
saying, Do not harm the earth, nor the sea, nor the trees, until we may seal the bondmen of our God on their foreheads.
And I heard the number of those sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel.
Twelve thousand were sealed from the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand from the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand from the tribe of Gad,
twelve thousand from the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand from the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand from the tribe of Manasseh,
twelve thousand from the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand from the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar,
twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand from the tribe of Benjamin, were sealed.
After these things, I looked and lo, a great multitude, which none could number, out of every nation, and tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, and palms in their hands,
and crying out in a great voice, saying, Salvation is in our God who sits upon the throne, and in the Lamb!
And all the agents had stood all around the throne, and the elders, and the four living creatures, and they fell before his throne on their faces, and worshiped God,
saying, Truly! Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honor, and power, and strength, is for our God into the ages of the ages. Truly!
And one of the elders answered, saying to me, Who are these who are clothed in white robes, and where did they come from?
And I said to him, My lord, thou know. And he said to me, These are those coming out of the great tribulation, and they washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Because of this they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will dwell among them.
They will hunger no more, nor will they thirst any more. The sun will, no, not fall upon them, nor any heat.
Because the Lamb in the midst of the throne will tend them, and will lead them to fountains of waters of life. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.