Hear, O Israel: Thou are to pass over the Jordan this day, to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than thyself, cities great and fortified up to heaven,
a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom thou know, and of whom thou have heard say, Who can stand before the sons of Anak?
Know therefore this day, that Jehovah thy God is he who goes over before thee as a devouring fire. He will destroy them, and he will bring them down before thee. So thou shall drive them out, and make them to perish quickly, as Jehovah has spoken to thee.
Do not speak thou in thy heart, after Jehovah thy God has thrust them out from before thee, saying, For my righteousness Jehovah has brought me in to possess this land. Whereas for the wickedness of these nations Jehovah drives them out from before thee.
Not for thy righteousness, or for the uprightness of thy heart, do thou go in to possess their land, but for the wickedness of these nations Jehovah thy God drives them out from before thee, and that he may establish the word which Jehovah swore to thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Know therefore, that Jehovah thy God does not give thee this good land to possess it for thy righteousness, for thou are a stiff-necked people.
Remember, do not thou forget how thou provoked Jehovah thy God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day that thou went forth out of the land of Egypt, until ye came to this place, ye have been rebellious against Jehovah.
Also in Horeb ye provoked Jehovah to wrath, and Jehovah was angry with you to destroy you.
When I was gone up onto the mount to receive the tablets of stone, even the tablets of the covenant which Jehovah made with you, then I abode on the mount forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water.
And Jehovah delivered to me the two tablets of stone written with the finger of God. And on them was according to all the words, which Jehovah spoke with you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly.
And it came to pass, at the end of forty days and forty nights, that Jehovah gave me the two tablets of stone, even the tablets of the covenant.
And Jehovah said to me, Arise, get thee down quickly from here, for thy people that thou have brought forth out of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them. They have made them a molten image.
Furthermore Jehovah spoke to me, saying, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiff-necked people.
Let me alone, that I may destroy them, and blot out their name from under heaven, and I will make of thee a nation mightier and greater than they.
So I turned and came down from the mount, and the mount was burning with fire. And the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands.
And I looked, and, behold, ye had sinned against Jehovah your God. Ye had made you a molten calf. Ye had turned aside quickly out of the way which Jehovah had commanded you.
And I took hold of the two tablets, and cast them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes.
And I fell down before Jehovah, as at the first, forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water, because of all your sin which ye sinned, in doing that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger.
For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure with which Jehovah was angry against you to destroy you. But Jehovah hearkened to me that time also.
And Jehovah was very angry with Aaron to destroy him. And I prayed for Aaron also at the same time.
And I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, grinding it very small, until it was as fine as dust. And I cast the dust of it into the brook that descended out of the mount.
And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth-hattaavah, ye provoked Jehovah to wrath.
And when Jehovah sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you, then ye rebelled against the commandment of Jehovah your God, and ye did not believe him, nor hearken to his voice.
Ye have been rebellious against Jehovah from the day that I knew you.
So I fell down before Jehovah the forty days and forty nights that I fell down, because Jehovah had said he would destroy you.
And I prayed to Jehovah, and said, O lord Jehovah, destroy not thy people and thine inheritance, that thou have redeemed through thy greatness, that thou have brought forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
Remember thy servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Look not to the stubbornness of this people, nor to their profaneness, nor to their sin,
lest the land from where thou brought us out say, Because Jehovah was not able to bring them into the land which he promised to them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.
Yet they are thy people and thine inheritance, which thou brought out by thy great power and by thine outstretched arm.