And Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee?
And now is not Boaz our kinsman, with whose maidens thou were? Behold, he winnows barley tonight in the threshing-floor.
Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the threshing-floor. But do not make thyself known to the man until he shall have done eating and drinking.
And it shall be, when he lies down, that thou shall notice the place where he shall lie. And thou shall go in, and uncover his feet, and lie thee down. And he will tell thee what thou shall do.
And she said to her, All that thou say I will do.
And she went down to the threshing-floor, and did according to all that her mother-in-law bade her.
And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. And she came softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid down.
And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was startled, and turned himself, and, behold, a woman lay at his feet.
And he said, Who are thou? And she answered, I am Ruth thy handmaid. Spread therefore thy skirt over thy handmaid, for thou are a near kinsman.
And he said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my daughter. Thou have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as thou did not follow young men, whether poor or rich.
And now, my daughter, fear not. I will do to thee all that thou say, for all the city of my people know that thou are a worthy woman.
And now it is true that I am a near kinsman. However there is a kinsman nearer than I.
Remain this night, and it shall be in the morning that if he will perform to thee the part of a kinsman, well; let him do the kinsman's part. But if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee, then I will do the part of a kinsman to thee, as Jehovah lives. Lie down until the morning.
And she lay at his feet until the morning. And she rose up before one could discern another. For he said, Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing-floor.
And he said, Bring the mantle that is upon thee, and hold it. And she held it, and he measured six measures of barley, and laid it on her, and he went into the city.
And when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, Who are thou, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done to her.
And she said, He gave me these six measures of barley, for he said, Go not empty to thy mother-in-law.
Then she said, Sit still, my daughter, until thou know how the matter will fall, for the man will not rest until he has finished the thing this day.