I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.
Every branch in me that bears not fruit he takes away: and every branch that bears fruit, he purges it, that it may bring forth more fruit.
Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken to you.
Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can you, except you abide in me.
I am the vine, you are the branches: He that stays in me, and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit: for without me you can do nothing.
If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done to you.
Herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit; so shall you be my disciples.
As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you: continue you in my love.
If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and abide in his love.
These things have I spoken to you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full.
This is my commandment, That you love one another, as I have loved you.
Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
You are my friends, if you do whatever I command you.
From now on I call you not servants; for the servant knows not what his lord does: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known to you.
You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.
These things I command you, that you love one another.
If the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated you.
If you were of the world, the world would love his own: but because you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
Remember the word that I said to you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also.
But all these things will they do to you for my name’s sake, because they know not him that sent me.
If I had not come and spoken to them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloak for their sin.
He that hates me hates my Father also.
If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father.
But this comes to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause.
But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send to you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceeds from the Father, he shall testify of me:
And you also shall bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.