Now as Ezra prayed and confessed weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, there assembled unto him out of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children; and the people wept very sore.
[Then] Shechaniah, the son of Jehiel, [one] of the sons of Elam, answered and said unto Ezra, We have rebelled against our God and have taken strange women of the peoples of the land, but there is yet hope for Israel concerning this thing.
Now, therefore, let us make a covenant with our God to send away all the women and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of the Lord and of those that fear the commandment of our God; and let it be done according to the law.
Arise; for [this] matter [belongs] unto thee; we also [will be] with thee: be of good courage, and do [it].
Then Ezra arose and made the princes of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel, swear that they should do according to this word. And they swore.
Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God and went into the chamber of Johanan, the son of Eliashib; and [when] he came there, he ate no bread, nor drank water; for he mourned because of the transgression of those that had been carried away.
And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem unto all the sons of the captivity, that they should gather themselves together unto Jerusalem
and that whoever would not come within three days, according to the counsel of the princes and of the elders, all his substance should be forfeited and himself separated from the congregation of those that had been carried away.
Thus were all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered together unto Jerusalem within three days. It [was] the ninth month, on the twentieth of the month; and all the people sat in the plaza of the house of God, trembling because of [this] matter and because of the rains.
And Ezra, the priest, stood up, and said unto them, Ye have transgressed because ye have taken strange women, thus increasing the guiltiness of Israel.
Now, therefore, make confession unto the LORD God of your fathers and do his will; and separate yourselves from the peoples of the lands and from the strange women.
Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice, Let it be done according to thy word.
But the people [are] many, and [it is] a time of much rain, and there is no strength to stand in the street; neither [is this] a work of one day or two; for we are many that have transgressed in this thing.
Let our rulers of all the congregation now stand, and let all those who have taken strange women in our cities come at appointed times, and with them the elders of each city and the judges thereof, until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter is turned from us.
Jonathan, the son of Asahel, and Jahaziah, the son of Tikvah, were placed over this matter; and Meshullam and Shabbethai, the Levites, helped them.
And the sons of the captivity did so. And Ezra, the priest, and the men who were the heads of the fathers in the house of their fathers were separated, all of them by [their] names, and sat down in the first day of the tenth month to inquire into the matter.
And they finished, with all the men that had taken strange women by the first day of the first month.
And among the sons of the priests that had taken strange women these were found: Of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and of his brethren: Maaseiah and Eliezer, and Jarib and Gedaliah.
And they gave their hands that they would send away their women; and [being] guilty, [they offered] a ram of the flock for their guiltiness.
And of the sons of Immer; Hanani and Zebadiah.
And of the sons of Harim; Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah.
And of the sons of Pashur; Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.
And of the sons of the Levites; Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah, (the same [is] Kelita,)Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.
And of the singers; Eliashib; and of the porters; Shallum, Telem, and Uri.
Likewise of Israel: of the sons of Parosh; Ramiah, Jeziah, Malchiah, Miamin, Eleazar, Malchijah, and Benaiah.
And of the sons of Elam; Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Eliah.
And of the sons of Zattu; Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza.
And of the sons of Bebai; Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, [and] Athlai.
And of the sons of Bani; Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Ramoth.
And of the sons of Pahath-moab; Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, Binnui, and Manasseh.
And of the sons of Harim; Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
Benjamin, Malluch, [and] Shemariah.
Of the sons of Hashum; Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, [and] Shimei.
Of the sons of Bani; Maadai, Amram, and Uel,
Benaiah, Bedeiah, Chelluh,
Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasau,
Bani, Binnui, Shimei,
Shelemiah, Nathan, and Adaiah,
Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
Azareel, Shelemiah, Shemariah,
Shallum, Amariah, [and] Joseph.
And of the sons of Nebo; Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau, Joel, and Benaiah.
All these had taken strange women, and there were women of theirs who had given birth to sons.: