And it happened, when Adoni-zedek king of Jerusalem heard that Joshua had captured Ai, and had destroyed it (as he had done to Jericho and to its king, so he had done to Ai and to her king) and that the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were in their midst,
they were greatly afraid because Gibeon was a great city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty.
And Adoni-zedek king of Jerusalem sent to Hoham king of Hebron, and to Piram king of Jarmuth, and to Japhia king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying,
Come up to me and help me. And we shall strike Gibeon, for it has made peace with Joshua, and with the sons of Israel.
And the five kings of the Amorites assembled, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon, they and all their camps. And they camped against Gibeon, and fought against it.
And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua, and to the camp at Gilgal, saying, Do not withdraw your hand from your servants. Come up to us quickly, and save us, and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites living in the hills have gathered against us.
And Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him, even all the mighty warriors.
And Jehovah said to Joshua, Do not be afraid of them, for I have given them into your hands. Not a man of them shall stand before you.
And Joshua came to them suddenly (he had traveled all night from Gilgal)
and Jehovah troubled them before Israel, and struck them with a great blow at Gibeon, and He pursued by the way of the ascent of Bethhoron, and struck them to Azekah, and to Makkedah.
And it happened, as they fled from the face of Israel, they were in the descent of Bethhoron, even Jehovah cast great stones on them out of the heavens, to Azekah; and they died. The many who died by the hailstones were more than the sons of Israel had killed by the sword.
Then Joshua spoke to Jehovah in the day when Jehovah gave the Amorites up before the sons of Israel; and he said, Sun, stand still before the eyes of Israel in Gibeon! And, Moon stand still in the valley of Aijalon!
And the sun stood still, and the moon stood still , until the nation was avenged on its foes. Is it not written in the Book of the Upright? Yea, the sun stood still in the middle of the heavens, and did not hasten to go down for a full day.
And there has not been a day such as that, before it or after it; for Jehovah listened to the voice of a man. For Jehovah fought for Israel.
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
And these five kings fled, and were hidden in a cave at Makkedah.
And it was told to Joshua, saying, the five kings have been found hidden in a cave at Makkedah.
And Joshua said, Roll great stones to the mouth of the cave, and set men over it to watch them.
And you, do not stand still . Pursue your enemies, and you shall strike the hindmost of them. Do not allow them to go into their cities, for Jehovah your God has given them into your hand.
And it happened, when Joshua and the sons of Israel had finished destroying them with a very great blow, until they were completely destroyed, and the remnant of them who escaped went into the fortified cities,
that all the people returned to the camp in peace, to Joshua at Makkedah. Not one sharpened his tongue against the sons of Israel, against any man.
And Joshua said, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out to me these five kings from the cave.
And they did so, and brought out to him these five kings from the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon.
And it happened, when they brought out these kings to Joshua, Joshua called to every man of Israel and said to the commanders of the men of war who had gone with him, Draw near, set your feet on the necks of these kings. And they drew near and set their feet on their necks.
And Joshua said to them, Do not fear nor be afraid. Be strong and brave, for so Jehovah shall do to all your enemies with whom you are fighting.
And afterward Joshua struck them, and put them to death, and hung them on five trees. And they were hanging on the trees until the evening.
And it happened at the time of the going of the sun, Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees, and threw them into the cave where they had been hidden, and put great stones on the mouth of the cave until this very day.
And that day Joshua captured Makkedah. And he struck it by the mouth of the sword, and he destroyed its king, them, and every person in it. He did not leave a survivor. And he did to the king of Makkedah as he did to the king of Jericho.
And Joshua passed on, and all Israel with him, from Makkedah to Libnah. And he fought with Libnah.
And Jehovah also gave it into the hand of Israel, and its king. And they struck it by the mouth of the sword, and every person in it; he did not leave a survivor in it. And he did to its king as he did to the king of Jericho.
And Joshua passed on, and all Israel with him, from Libnah to Lachish. And they camped against it, and fought against it.
And Jehovah gave Lachish into the hand of Israel, and he captured it on the second day, and struck it by the mouth of the sword, and every person in it, according to all that he did to Libnah.
Then Horam the king of Gezer came up to help Lachish. And Joshua struck him and his people until there was not left to him a survivor.
And Joshua passed on, and all Israel with him, from Lachish to Eglon. And they camped against it, and fought against it,
and captured it on that day, and struck it with the mouth of the sword. And he destroyed every person in it on that day, according to all that he did to Lachish.
And Joshua went on, and all Israel with him, from Eglon to Hebron. And they fought against it,
and captured it, and struck it by the mouth of the sword, and its king, and all its cities, and every person in it; he did not leave a survivor, according to all that he did to Eglon, and destroyed it and every person in it.
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir, and fought against it.
And they captured it and its king, and all its cities. And they struck them by the mouth of the sword, and destroyed every person in it; he did not leave a survivor. As he did to Hebron, so he did to Debir, and to its king; even as he did to Libnah, and to its king.
And Joshua struck all the land: the heights and the Negeb, and the Lowland, and the slopes, and all their kings; he did not leave a survivor, but he destroyed all that breathed, as Jehovah the God of Israel had commanded.
And Joshua struck them from Kadesh-barnea, even to Gaza, and all the land of Goshen, even to Gibeon.
And Joshua captured all these kings in their land at one time, for Jehovah the God of Israel fought for Israel.
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him to the camp at Gilgal.