And after the uproar ceased, Paul having summoned the disciples and having embraced them, he departed to go into Macedonia.
And having passed through those parts, and having exhorted them with many words, he came into Greece.
And having spent three months there, and a conspiracy having developed against him by Jews, intending to go up into Syria, a decision developed to return through Macedonia.
And there accompanied him as far as Asia, Sopater a Berean, and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus, and Gaius a Derbean, and Timothy, and the Asians, Tychicus and Trophimus.
These men, who went ahead, awaited us at Troas.
And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and came to them at Troas within five days, where we stayed seven days.
And upon the first day of the week, the disciples having come together to break bread, Paul discoursed with them, intending to depart on the morrow. And he prolonged his speech until midnight.
And there were considerable lights in the upper floor where we were gathered together.
And a certain young man named Eutychus sitting in the window, being carried away by deep sleep (Paul discoursing on more), being carried away by sleep, he fell down below from the third floor, and was taken up dead.
But Paul having come down, he fell on him, and having embraced him he said, Be not troubled, for his life is in him.
And after getting up, and having broken bread and eaten, and having conversed for a considerable time, until dawn, thus he departed.
And they brought the boy alive, and were not a little comforted.
But we, having gone ahead to the ship, went up to Assos, intending from there to take up Paul, for so it was arranged, he himself intending to go on foot.
And when he met with us at Assos, having taken him up, we came to Mitylene.
And having sailed from there on the next day, we arrived opposite Chios, and the next day we came near to Samos. And having remained in Trogyllium, on the following day we came to Miletus.
For Paul determined to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not happen to lose time in Asia. For he was hastening, if it were possible, for him to become at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.
And from Miletus having sent to Ephesus, he summoned the elders of the congregation.
And when they came to him, he said to them, Ye know, from the first day in which I stepped in Asia, how I became with you all the time,
serving the Lord with all humility, and many tears and trials that befell me by the conspiracies of the Jews.
How I kept back nothing of these things that are beneficial, not to inform you, and to teach you in public, and from house to house,
testifying both to Jews and to Greeks repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus.
And now behold, I, bound in the spirit, am going to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me in it,
except that the Holy Spirit testifies from city to city, saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
But I make nothing of the matter, nor do I hold my life precious to myself, so as to fully complete my course with joy, and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to solemnly testify the good news of the grace of God.
And now behold, I have seen that ye will no longer see my face, ye all among whom I passed through preaching the kingdom of God.
Therefore I solemnly declare to you this day, that I am clean from the blood of all men.
For I did not withdraw from declaring to you the whole plan of God.
Take heed therefore to yourselves, and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit placed you guardians, to tend the church of the Lord and God, which he purchased by his own blood.
For I know this, that after my departure grievous wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
And from you yourselves men will rise up, speaking distorted things, to draw away the disciples after them.
Therefore watch ye, remembering that for three years, night and day, I did not cease warning each one with tears.
And now brothers, I commit you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build up, and to give you an inheritance among all those who have been sanctified.
I coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel.
Ye yourselves know that these hands served my needs, and to those who were with me.
I gave you a glimpse of all things, that so laboring ye ought to aid the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that he himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
And having spoken these things, having knelt down, he prayed with them all.
And there developed considerable weeping of all. And having fallen on Paul's neck, they kissed him much,
sorrowing especially for the word that he had spoken, that they were going to see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship.