Then my child, you be empowered by grace in Christ Jesus.
And what things you heard from me through many witnesses, commit these things to faithful men, such as will be competent also to teach others.
Then you suffer hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
No one serving as a soldier entangles himself with the affairs of this life, so that he might please the one enlisting him .
And also if anyone competes, he is not crowned unless he competes lawfully.
It is right the laboring farmer to partake first of the fruits.
Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
Remember Jesus Christ, having been raised from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel,
in which I suffer ill as an evildoer, unto bonds; but the Word of God has not been bound.
Because of this, I endure all things on account of the elect, that they also may obtain salvation in Christ Jesus, with everlasting glory.
Faithful is the Word: for if we died with Him , we also shall live with Him ;
if we endure, we shall also reign with Him ; if we deny Him , that One will deny us;
if we are unfaithful, that One remains faithful; He is not able to deny Himself.
Remind them of these things, solemnly testifying before the Lord not to dispute about words for nothing useful, to the throwing down of those hearing.
Earnestly study to present yourself approved to God, a workman unashamed, rightly dividing the Word of Truth.
But shun profane, empty babblings, for they will go on to more ungodliness,
and their word will have growth like gangrene, of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
who missed the mark concerning the truth, saying the resurrection already has come, and overturn the faith of some.
However, the foundation of God stands firm, having this seal, " The Lord knew those being His;" Num. 16:5 , also, Let everyone naming the name of Christ depart from unrighteousness.
But in a great house not only are there vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and of earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor.
Then if anyone purifies himself from these, he will be a vessel to honor, having been sanctified and made useful to the Master, having been prepared to every good work.
But flee youthful lusts and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, with the ones calling on the Lord out of a pure heart.
But refuse the foolish and uninstructed questionings, knowing that they generate quarrels.
But a slave of the Lord ought not to quarrel, but to be gentle towards all, apt to teach, forbearing,
in meekness teaching those who have opposed, if perhaps God may give them repentance for a full knowledge of the truth,
and they may awake out of the snare of the Devil, having been taken captive by him, so as to do the will of that one.