And it came to pass, on one of the days, as he was teaching the people in the temple, and telling the good tidings, that the High-priests and the Scribes, with the Elders, came upon him,—
and spake, saying, unto him—Tell us, by what authority, these things, thou art doing, and, who, is it, that gave thee this authority.
And answering, he said unto them—I too, will question, you, as to a matter,—and tell me!
The immersion of John, Of heaven, was it, or of men?
And they deliberated together by themselves, saying—If we say, Of heaven, he will say, Wherefore did ye not believe him?
But, if we say, Of men, the people, one and all, will stone us, for, persuaded, they are, that, John, was, a prophet.
And they answered, that they knew not whence.
And, Jesus, said unto them—Neither do, I, tell, you, by what authority, these things, I am doing.
And he began, unto the people, to be speaking this parable:—A man, planted a vineyard, and let it out to husbandmen, and went from home for a long time.
And, in due season, he sent unto the husbandmen, a servant, that, of the fruit of the vineyard, they might give him; but, the husbandmen, having beaten him, sent him away empty.
And he, further, sent another servant; but, they, beating, that one also, and dishonouring him, sent him away, empty.
And he, further, sent, a third; but, they, bruising, this one also, thrust him out.
And the lord of the vineyard said—What shall I do? I will send my son, the beloved,—It may be, that, him, they will respect.
But he husbandmen, seeing him, began to deliberate one with another, saying—This, is, the heir: Let us slay him, that, ours, may be, the inheritance.
And, thrusting him forth outside the vineyard, they slew him. What, then, will the lord of the vineyard do unto them?
He will come, and destroy these husbandmen, and give the vineyard unto others. But, when they heard it, they said—Far be it!
But, he, looking at them, said—What, then, is this that is written,—A stone which the builders’ rejected, The same, hath become, head of the corner?
Every one who falleth on that stone, will be sorely bruised, but, on whomsoever it shall fall, it will utterly destroy him.
And the Scribes and the High-priests sought to thrust on him their hands, in that very hour; and feared the people; for they perceived that, against them, spake he this parable.
And, watching narrowly, they sent forth suborned men, feigning themselves to be, righteous, that they might lay hold of a word of his, so as to deliver him up unto the rule and the authority of the governor.
And they questioned him, saying—Teacher! we know that, rightly, thou speakest and teachest, and respectest no person, but, in truth, the way of God, dost teach:
Is it allowable for us to give, unto Caesar, tribute, or not?
But, observing their villainy, he said unto them—
Shew me a denary. Of whom, hath it an image and inscription? And, they, said—Of Caesar.
And, he, said unto them—Well then! render the things of Caesar, unto Caesar, and the things of God, unto God.
And they could not lay hold of the saying, before the people; and, marvelling at his answer, they held their peace.
But there came near certain of the Sadducees, they who say, Resurrection, there is none! and questioned him,
saying—Teacher! Moses, wrote for us, If one’s brother die, having a wife, and, he, be, childless, that his brother shall take the wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
Seven brethren, therefore, there were,—and, the first, taking a wife, died childless,
And, the second,
and the third, took her,—yea, likewise, even the seven; They left no children, and died:
Later on, the woman also, died.
The woman, therefore, in the resurrection, Of which of them, doth she become wife? for, the seven, had her to wife.
And Jesus said unto them—The sons of this age, marry, and are given in marriage,—
But, they who have been accounted worthy, that age, to obtain, and the resurrection that is from among the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage;
For they cannot, even die any more,—for, equal unto messengers, are they, and are, sons of God, Of the resurrection, being, sons.
But, that the dead do rise, even Moses, disclosed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord—The God of Abraham and God of Isaac and God of Jacob:
Now, God, he is not, of the dead, but, of the living,—for, all, unto him, do live.
And certain of the Scribes, answering, said—Teacher! Well, hast thou spoken.
For, no longer, were they daring to ask him any questions.
And he said unto them—How say they, that, the Christ, is, David’s Son?
For, David himself, saith, in [the] book of Psalms: Said the Lord, unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand,
Until I make thy foes thy footstool.
David, therefore, calleth, him Lord: How, then, his son, is he?
And, all the people hearing, he said unto the disciples:
Be taking heed of the Scribes—Who desire to walk about in long robes, and are fond of salutations in the markets, and first seats in the synagogues, and first couches in the chief meals,—
Who devour the houses of widows, and, for a show, are a long time at prayer. These, shall receive, a heavier sentence.