Wherefore, O Yahweh, shouldst thou stand afar off? [Wherefore] hide thyself, in times of destitution?
In the pride of the lawless one, he hotly pursueth the poor, let them be caught in the plots which they have devised!
For the lawless one hath boasted over the longing of his soul, and, the robber, hath blasphemed Yahweh.
The lawless one, in the loftiness of his countenance, will not enquire, God is not in any of his plots:
His ways are firm at all times, On high, are thy righteous regulations, out of his sight, As for all his adversaries, he puffeth at them:
He hath said in his heart, I shall not be shaken,—From generation to generation, shall I be in no misfortune.
With cursing, his mouth is full, and with deceptions and oppression, Under his tongue, are trouble and mischief:
He abideth in the lurking-place of villages, In the hiding-places, he murdereth the innocent,—His eyes, for the unfortunate, are on the watch:
He lieth in wait in a hiding-place, like a lion in his covert, He lieth in wait to catch the humbled, He catcheth the humbled, by drawing him into his net:
He croucheth, he lieth down, then falleth he with his strong claws upon the unfortunate.
He hath said in his heart, GOD hath forgotten,—He hath veiled his face, Oh he hath never seen!
Arise! Yahweh! O GOD! raise thy hand,—Do not forget the patient!
Wherefore hath the lawless one blasphemed God? He hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require [it] !
Thou hast seen! For, thou, mischief and misery, dost discern, to requite with thine own hand, Unto thee, doth, the unfortunate one, give himself up, To the fatherless, thou thyself, hast become a helper.
Shatter thou the arm of the lawless one, And, as for the wrongful, wilt thou not enquire for his lawlessness—wilt thou not find [it] ?
Yahweh, is king, to times age-abiding and beyond, The nations have perished out of his land.
The longing of the patient, thou hast heard, O Yahweh, Thou wilt establish their heart, Thou wilt make attentive thine ear:
To vindicate the fatherless and the crushed, A man of the earth, shall, no further, cause terror!