And, when the day of pentecost was filling up [the number of days] they were all together with one intent;—
When there came suddenly out of heaven a sound, just as of a mighty rushing wind,—and it filled all the house where they were sitting;
And there appeared unto them—parting asunder—tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each one of them;
And they were all filled with Holy Spirit, and began to be speaking with other kinds of tongues just as the Spirit was giving unto them to be sounding forth.
Now there were in Jerusalem sojourning Jews, reverent men from every nation who were under heaven;
And this sound occurring the throng came together and was thrown into confusion, because each one severally heard in his own language them who were speaking;
Yea they were beside themselves and did marvel, saying—Lo! are not all these who are speaking Galilaeans?
How then do, we, hear each one in our own language in which we were born?
Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and those dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judaea also and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Phrygia also and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of the Libya that is towards Cyrene, and the sojourning Romans,—both Jews and proselytes,
Cretans and Arabians, we do hear them speaking in our own tongues the magnificent things of God.
But they were all beside themselves and were utterly at a loss, saying one to another—What doth this please to be?
While, others, in mockery were saying—With sweet wine, are they drunken!
But, taking his stand, Peter with the eleven lifted up his voice, and sounded out unto them—Ye men of Judaea, and all ye who are sojourning in Jerusalem! Let, this, unto you be known, and give ear unto my declarations;—
For not, as, ye, suppose, are these men drunken, for it is the third hour of the day;—
But this is that which hath been spoken through the prophet Joel—
And it shall be, in the last days saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and, your young men, visions shall see and, your elders, in dreams shall dream,—
And, even upon my men-servants and upon my maid-servants in those days, will I pour out of my Spirit, and they shall prophesy;
And I will set forth wonders in the heaven above, and signs upon the earth beneath,—blood and fire and vapour of smoke:
The sun, shall be turned into darkness and, the moon, into blood,—before the coming of the day of the Lord, the great and manifest [day] ;
And it shall be—Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved.
Ye men of Israel! hear these words:—Jesus the Nazarene, a man pointed out of God unto you by mighty works and wonders and signs, which God did through him in your midst, just as ye yourselves know,
The same, by the marked out counsel and foreknowledge of God given up, through the hands of lawless men, suspending, ye slew,
Whom, God, raised up, loosing the pangs of death, inasmuch as it was, not possible, for him to continue held fast by it.
For, David, saith concerning him—I foresaw the Lord before me continually, because he is, on my right hand, that I may not be shaken;
For this reason, was my heart made glad and my tongue exulted,—ye further, even my flesh, shall encamp on hope:
Because thou wilt not abandon my soul unto hades, neither wilt thou give thy man of lovingkindness to see corruption;
Thou madest known unto me paths of life, thou wilt make me full of gladness with thy countenance.
Brethren! it is, allowable, to say with freedom of speech unto you, concerning the patriarch David,—that he both died and was buried, and, his tomb, is among us until this day.
Being then, a prophet, and knowing that, with an oath, God had sworn unto him, of the fruit of his loins, to seat on his throne,
With foresight, spake he concerning the resurrection of the Christ—that neither was he abandoned unto hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.
The same Jesus, hath God raised up, whereof, all we, are witnesses!
By the right hand of God, therefore, having been exalted, also, the promise of the Holy Spirit, having received from the Father, He hath poured out this which, yourselves, do see and hear.
For, David, hath not ascended into the heavens; but he saith, himself,—Said the Lord unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand,
Until I make thy foes thy footstool.
Assuredly, then, let all the house of Israel know: that, both Lord and Christ, hath God made him, even the same Jesus whom, ye, crucified!
And, when they heard this, they were pricked to the heart, and said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles—What are we to do, brethren?
And Peter [said] unto them—Repent ye, and let each one of you be immersed, in the name of Jesus Christ, into the remission of your sins,—and ye shall receive the free-gift of the Holy Spirit;
For, unto you, is the promise, and unto your children,—and unto all them who are afar off: as many soever as the Lord our God shall call unto him.
And, with many different words, bare he frail witness, and went on exhorting them saying—Be saved from this perverse generation!
They, therefore, who welcomed his word, were immersed; and there were added, on that day, about three thousand souls.
And they went on to give constant attention—unto the teaching of the apostles, and unto the fellowship, unto the breaking of bread, and unto the prayers.
And there came on every soul, fear, and, many wonders and signs, through means of the apostles, were coming to pass.
And, all who believed, with one accord, began to hold all things common;
and, their possessions and goods, were they selling and distributing them unto all, in so far as anyone had need.
And, daily giving attendance with one intent in the temple and, at home, breaking bread, they were partaking of food with exultation and singleness of heart;
Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And, the Lord, was adding them who were being saved, daily, together.