And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars says these things. I know your works, that you have a name that you live, and are dead.
Be watchful and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die. For I have not found your works being fulfilled before God.
Remember then how you have received and heard, and hold fast, and repent. Therefore if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief, and you will not know what hour I will come upon you.
You have a few names even in Sardis who have not defiled their garments. And they will walk with Me in white, for they are worthy.
The one who overcomes, that one will be clothed in white clothing. And I will not blot out his name out of the Book of Life, but I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: He who is holy, He who is true, He who has the key of David, He who opens and no one shuts; and shuts and no one opens, says these things:
I know your works. Behold, I have given before you an open door, and no one can shut it. For you have a little strength and have kept My word and have not denied My name.
Behold, I will give out of those of the synagogue of Satan, those saying themselves to be Jews and are not, but lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved you.
Because you have kept the word of My patience, I also will keep you from the hour of temptation which will come upon all the world, to try those who dwell upon the earth.
Behold, I come quickly. Hold fast to that which you have, so that no one may take your crown.
Him who overcomes I will make him a pillar in the temple of My God, and he will go out no more. And I will write upon him the name of My God, and the name of the city of My God, New Jerusalem, which comes down out of Heaven from My God, and My new name.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And to the angel of the church of the Laodicea write: The Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the Head of the creation of God, says these things:
I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I would that you were cold or hot.
So because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit you out of My mouth.
Because you say, I am rich and increased with goods and have need of nothing, and do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked,
I counsel you to buy from Me gold tried in the fire, so that you may be rich; and white clothing, so that you may be clothed, and so that the shame of your nakedness does not appear. And anoint your eyes with eye salve, so that you may see.
As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten; therefore be zealous and repent.
Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and will dine with him and he with Me.
To him who overcomes I will grant to sit with Me in My throne, even as I also overcame and have sat down with My Father in His throne.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.