And when any will offer a grain offering unto Yhwh, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:
And he shall bring it to Aaron’s sons the priests: and he shall take thereout his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto Yhwh:
And the remnant of the grain offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of Yhwh made by fire.
And if thou bring an oblation of a grain offering baken in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
And if thy oblation be a grain offering baken in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a grain offering.
And if thy oblation be a grain offering baken in the fryingpan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
And thou shalt bring the grain offering that is made of these things unto Yhwh: and when it is presented unto the priest, he shall bring it unto the altar.
And the priest shall take from the grain offering a memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto Yhwh.
And that which is left of the grain offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of Yhwh made by fire.
No grain offering, which ye shall bring unto Yhwh, shall be made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of Yhwh made by fire.
As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them unto Yhwh: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savour.
And every oblation of thy grain offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy grain offering: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.
And if thou offer a grain offering of thy firstfruits unto Yhwh, thou shalt offer for the grain offering of thy firstfruits green heads of grain dried by the fire, even barley beaten out of full heads.
And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a grain offering.
And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the beaten grain thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: it is an offering made by fire unto Yhwh.