During which time the myriads of the multitude having gathered together so as to trample each other, he began first to say to his disciples, Take heed to yourselves from the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
But there is nothing covered up that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known.
Therefore, as many things as ye have said in the darkness will be heard in the light, and what ye have spoken in the ear in the inner chambers will be proclaimed upon the housetops.
And I say to you my friends, Be not afraid of those who kill the body, and after these things not having anything more severe to do.
But I will show you whom ye should fear. Fear him, who, after killing, has power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear ye him.
Are not five sparrows sold for two copper coins? And not one of them is forgotten in the sight of God.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore, ye are superior to many sparrows.
And I say to you, every man who will confess in me before men, the Son of man will also confess in him before the agents of God,
but he who denies me in the presence of men will be denied in the presence of the agents of God.
And every man who will speak a word against the Son of man, it will be forgiven him, but to him who blasphemed against the Holy Spirit it will not be forgiven.
And when they bring you to the synagogues, and the principle positions, and the offices of authority, be not anxious how or what ye should answer in defense, or what ye should say,
for the Holy Spirit will teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say.
And a certain man out of the crowd said to him, Teacher, speak to my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
But he said to him, Man, who appointed me a judge or an arbitrator over you?
And he said to them, Watch, and keep away from greed, because to any man, life to him is not in the abundance of things possessed by him.
And he spoke a parable to them, saying, The land of a certain rich man brought forth well.
And he pondered within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have nowhere I will store my crops?
And he said, I will do this. I will dismantle my barns, and I will build greater, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou have many goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, be merry.
But God said to him, Thou foolish man, they demand thy soul from thee this night, and the things that thou prepared, whose will they be?
So is he who stores up for himself, and is not being rich toward God.
And he said to his disciples, Because of this I say to you, be not anxious for your life, what ye may eat, nor for the body, what ye may wear.
For the life is more than the food, and the body, the clothing.
Consider the ravens, because they do not sow, nor do they reap, for which there is no storehouse nor barn, and God feeds them. How much ye are worth more than the birds.
And which of you by being anxious can add one cubit to his age?
If then ye are not able to do even the least, why are ye anxious about the rest?
Consider the lilies, how they grow. They toil not, nor do they spin, and I say to you, not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed like one of these.
And if God so clothes the grass in the field, which today is, and tomorrow being cast into the oven, how much more you, O ye of little faith?
And do not seek what ye may eat, and what ye may drink, and do not be unsettled.
For the nations of the world seek all these things, and your Father knows that ye have need of these things.
However, seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you.
Fear not, little flock, because your Father is well pleased to give you the kingdom.
Sell things possessed by you, and give charity. Make for yourselves purses not becoming old, a treasure unfailing in the heavens, where no thief approaches, nor moth corrupts.
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Let your loins be girded about, and the lights burning,
and be ye like men waiting for their lord, when he may return from the wedding festivities, so that when he comes and knocks, they may straightaway open to him.
Blessed are those bondmen whom the lord when he comes will find watching. Truly I say to you, that he will gird himself, and will cause them to sit down, and having come, will serve them.
And if he should come in the second watch, and should come in the third watch, and find so, blessed are those bondmen.
But know this, that if the house-ruler had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and would not have allowed his house to be broken into.
Therefore, ye also become ready, because the Son of man comes at that hour ye do not suppose.
And Peter said to him, Lord, did thou speak this parable to us, or also to all?
And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise manager whom his lord will appoint over his service to give the provision on time?
Blessed is that bondman whom his lord when he comes will find so doing.
Truly I say to you, that he will appoint him over the things being possessed by him.
But if that bondman should say in his heart, My lord is late to come, and should begin to beat the servant boys and the servant girls, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken,
the lord of that bondman will arrive in a day that he does not expect, and in an hour that he is not aware, and will cut him in two, and will place his portion with the unbelieving.
And that bondman who knew his lord's will, and who did not prepare, nor do according to his will, will be beaten much,
but he who did not know, and did things worthy of blows, will be beaten little. And to every man to whom much was given, much will be required from him. And to whom they entrust much, they will ask him more abundantly.
I came to cast fire upon the earth, and what I desire is if it were kindled already.
But I have an immersion to be immersed, and how am I constrained until it will be accomplished.
Do ye suppose that I came to give peace on the earth? I tell you, no, but rather division.
For henceforth there will be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
A father will be divided against a son, and a son against a father, a mother against a daughter, and a daughter against a mother, a mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And he also said to the multitudes, When ye see a cloud rising from the west, straightaway ye say, A shower is coming, and so it happens.
And when a south wind is blowing, ye say, There will be heat, and it happens.
Ye hypocrites, ye know how to examine the face of the earth and the sky, but how can ye not examine this season?
And also why do ye not judge yourselves what is right?
For when thou go with thine opponent to the magistrate on the way give effort to be delivered from him, lest he may drag thee to the judge, and the judge may deliver thee to the officer, and the officer would cast thee into prison.
I say to thee, thou will, no, not come out from there, until thou have paid even the last mite.