Now it came to pass, in those days, that there went forth a decree from Caesar Augustus, for all the inhabited earth to be enrolled:
this enrolment, first was made while Cyrenius was governor of Syria:
and all were journeying to be enrolled, each one unto his own city.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of a city Nazareth, into Judaea, into the city of David which is called Bethlehem; because he was of the house and family of David:
to enrol himself with Mary who was betrothed to him, she being with child.
And it came to pass, while they were there, that the days were fulfilled for her to give birth;
and she gave birth to her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn.
And there were, shepherds, in the same country, dwelling in the fields, and keeping the watches of the night over their flock.
And, a messenger of the Lord, stood over them, and, a glory of the Lord, shone round about them; and they feared, a great fear.
And the messenger said unto them—Be not afraid! For lo! I bring you good tidings of a great joy, the which shall be for all the people:
That there hath been born unto you, this day, a saviour,—Who is Christ the Lord—in the city of David!
And, this, to you is, a sign: Ye shall find a babe, wrapped in swaddling clothes, and lying in a manger.
And, suddenly, there came to be, with the messenger, the throng of the heavenly host, praising God, and saying—
Glory, in the highest, unto God! And, on earth, peace, among men of goodwill.
And it came to pass, when the messengers had departed from them into heaven, that, the shepherds, began to say one to another—Let us go through forthwith as far as to Bethlehem, and see this thing which hath come to pass, which the Lord hath made known to us.
And they came, with haste, and found both Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in the manger.
Now, when they beheld, they made known concerning the thing which had been told them as to this child.
And, all who heard, marvelled concerning the things which had been told by the shepherds unto them;
but, Mary, was closely observing, all, these things, putting them together in her heart.
And the shepherds returned, giving glory and singing praise unto God, over all things which they had heard and seen, according as it had been told unto them.
And, when eight days were fulfilled for circumcising him, then was his name called, Jesus,—which it was called by the messenger, before he was conceived in the womb.
And, when the days of their purification, according to the law of Moses, were fulfilled, they took him up into Jerusalem, to present [him] unto the Lord,—
according as it is written in the law of the Lord—Every male that is a firstborn, Holy unto the Lord, shall be called,
and to give a sacrifice, according to that which is said in the law of the Lord—A pair of turtle-doves, or two young pigeons.
And lo! there was, a man, in Jerusalem, whose name, was Symeon; and, this man, was righteous and devout, awaiting the consolation of Israel, and Holy Spirit was upon him;
and it had been intimated to him by the Holy Spirit, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Christ of the Lord.
And he came, in the Spirit, into the temple; and, when the parents brought in the child Jesus, that they might do according to that which was customary by the law concerning it,
even he, welcomed it into his arms, and blessed God, and said—
Now, dost thou dismiss thy servant, O Sovereign, according to thy declaration—in peace;
Because mine eyes have seen thy salvation,
Which thou hast prepared in face of all the peoples:
A light for the unveiling of nations, and the glory of thy people Israel.
And his father and mother were marvelling over the things which were being spoken concerning him.
And Symeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother—Lo! this one, is being set for the falling and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign to be spoken against;
And, thou! through thy very soul, shall pass a sword, that, reasonings, may be revealed, out of many hearts.
And there was one Anna, a prophetess, daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher;—the same, advanced in many days; having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity,
and, she, had been a widow for as long as eighty-four years,—who left not the temple, with fastings and supplications, rendering divine service night and day;—
and, in that very hour, coming near, she began to give thanks unto God, and to speak concerning him unto all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.
And, when they had finished all things that were according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, into their own city, Nazareth.
And, the child, went on growing, and waxing strong, becoming filled with wisdom; and, the favour of God, was upon it.
And his parents used to journey yearly into Jerusalem, at the feast of the passover.
And, when he became twelve years, and they went up, according to the custom of the feast,
and completed the days, and then were returning, the boy Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem,—and his parents noticed it not;
but, supposing him to be in the company, went a day’s journey, and then began to seek for him among their kinsfolk and acquaintances,
and, not finding him, returned unto Jerusalem, seeking him.
And it came to pass, that, after three days, they found him in the temple, sitting amidst the teachers,—both hearkening unto them, and questioning them.
Now all who heard him were beside themselves, because of his understanding and his answers.
And, when they behold him, they were astounded, and his mother said unto him—Child! why, hast thou dealt with us, thus? Lo! thy father and I, in anguish, were seeking thee.
And he said unto them—Why was it that ye were seeking me? Perceived ye not, that, in the courts of my Father, I must needs be?
And, they, understood not the thing which he spake to them.
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was submitting himself unto them. And, his mother, was closely observing all these things in her heart.
And, Jesus, went on advancing in wisdom, and in stature, and in favour with God and men.