And having summoned the twelve, he gave them power and authority over all demons, and to heal diseases.
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal those who were incapacitated.
And he said to them, Take nothing for the way, neither staffs, nor bag, nor bread, nor silver, nor have two coats each.
And into whatever house ye may enter, remain there, and from there depart.
And as many as will not receive you, when departing from that city, also shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
And having departed, they passed through the villages, preaching the good news, and healing everywhere.
But Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him. And he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John was risen from the dead,
and by some that Elijah appeared, and by others that a prophet, one of the ancient men arose.
And Herod said, I beheaded John, but who is this about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him.
And when the apostles returned, they related to him as many things as they did. And having taken them along, he withdrew in private into a desolate place of a city called Bethsaida.
But the multitudes having known, they followed him. And having received them, he spoke to them about the kingdom of God, and he cured those who had need of healing.
And the day began to decline, and the twelve having come near, they said to him, Send the multitude away, so that, after going into the villages and fields around, they may rest and find provision, because we are here in a desolate place.
But he said to them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, There are for us not more than five loaves and two fishes, unless, after going, we might buy food for all this people.
For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down in groups of fifty each.
And they did so, and made them all sit down.
And after taking the five loaves and the two fishes, having looked up to heaven, he blessed them, and broke in pieces, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.
And they ate, and were all filled. And there were taken up to them of the remaining fragments, twelve baskets.
And it came to pass, as he was praying privately, the disciples were with him. And he questioned them, saying, Who do the multitudes say that I am?
And having answered, they said, John the immerser, but others, Elijah, and others, that a certain prophet of the ancient men arose.
And he said to them, But ye, who say ye that I am? And having answered, Peter said, The Christ of God.
But having chided them, he commanded to tell this to no man,
saying, It is necessary for the Son of man to suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scholars, and be killed, and the third day to rise.
And he said to all, If any man wants to come behind me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever may lose his life because of me, this man will save it.
For what is a man benefited, having gained the whole world, but having lost or having forfeited himself?
For whoever may be ashamed of me and of my words, the Son of man will be ashamed of this man when he comes in his glory, and of the Father, and of the holy agents.
But I tell you truly, there are some of those who stand here, who will, no, not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God.
And it came to pass about eight days after these sayings, that after taking Peter and John and James, he went up onto the mountain to pray.
And as he was praying, the appearance of his face became different, and his clothing glistening white.
And behold, two men talked with him, who were Moses and Elijah,
who, having appeared in glory, spoke of his departure, which he was going to fulfill at Jerusalem.
But Peter and those with him were weighed down with sleep, and having become awake, they saw his glory, and the two men who stood with him.
And it came to pass, as they were departing from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here, and we could make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah, not knowing what he was saying.
And while he was speaking these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them. And they were afraid as they entered into the cloud.
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son. Hear ye him.
And at the occurrence of the voice, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent, and informed no man in those days any of the things that they have seen.
And it came to pass, on the next day, when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him.
And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, saying, Teacher, I beseech thee to look upon my son, because he is the only begotten to me.
And lo, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out, and it convulses him with foaming. And it departs from him difficultly, injuring him.
And I begged thy disciples that they might cast it out, and they could not.
And having answered, Jesus said, O faithless and perverted generation, how long will I be with you and endure you? Bring thy son here.
And as he was still coming, the demon tore him, and he convulsed. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father.
And they were all amazed at the majesty of God. But while all were wondering at all the things which Jesus did, he said to his disciples,
Place ye these sayings into your ears, for the Son of man is going to be delivered up into the hands of men.
But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, so that they did not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about this saying.
But a thought entered among them, which of them may be greater.
But having perceived the thought of their heart, having taken a child, Jesus stood it beside him,
and he said to them, Whoever may receive this child in my name receives me, and whoever may receive me receives him who sent me, for he who exists smaller among you all, this man will be great.
And having answered, John said, Master, we saw a certain man casting out demons in thy name, and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us.
But Jesus said to him, Do not forbid, for he who is not against us is for us.
And it came to pass, while fulfilling the days for his ascension, that he also set his face to go to Jerusalem.
And he sent agents before his face, and they went. And having gone, they entered into a village of Samaritans, so as to make ready for him.
And they did not receive him, because his face was going to Jerusalem.
And his disciples James and John having seen, they said, Lord, do thou want that we should call fire to come down from the sky, and consume them, as also Elijah did?
But having turned around, he rebuked them, and said, Ye do not know what kind of spirit ye are.
For the Son of man came not to destroy the lives of men, but to save. And they went to another village.
And it came to pass while they went on the way, a certain man said to him, I will follow thee wherever thou may go, Lord.
And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky, nests, but the Son of man has not where he might lay his head.
And he said to another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, allow me first, after departing, to bury my father.
But Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead, but thou, after departing, proclaim the kingdom of God.
And also another said, I will follow thee, Lord, but first allow me to bid farewell to those in my house.
But Jesus said to him, No man, having put his hand to a plow, and looking to things behind, is fit for the kingdom of God.