When there ariseth a controversy between men, and they come nigh unto judgment, and judgment is granted them, then shall they justify the righteous man, and condemn the lawless.
And it shall be—if the lawless man be, worthy of stripes, then shall the judge cause him to lie down and be beaten before him, according to the measure of his lawlessness, by number:
forty stripes, may he give him not going beyond,—lest, if he do go beyond to smite him above these, with many stripes, then should thy brother be of no account in thine eyes.
Thou shalt not muzzle an ox when he is treading out the corn.
When brethren dwell together, and one of them dieth, having, no son, the wife of the dead shall not marry outside to a stranger,—her husband’s brother, shall go in unto her, and take her unto him to wife and do for her as a husband’s brother.
And it shall be, that, the firstborn which she beareth, shall succeed in the name of his brother who is dead,—so shall his name not be wiped out from Israel.
But, if the man like not to take his sister-in-law, then shall his sister-in-law go up unto the gate, unto the elders, and say—My husband’s brother hath refused, to raise up unto his brother a name in Israel, he is not willing to do as a husband’s brother unto me.
Then shall the elders of his city call him and speak unto him,—and he shall stand and say, I like not to take her.
Then shall his brother’s wife come near unto him in the presence of the elders, and draw his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face,—and respond and say, Thus shall it be done unto the man who will not build up the house of his brother.
And his name shall be called in Israel,—The house of him who had his shoe drawn off.
When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draweth near to deliver her husband out of the hand of him that smiteth him,—and she putteth forth her hand, and seizeth him by his parts of shame,
then shalt thou cut off her hand, thine eye shall not pity.
Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers weights,—a great and a small.
Thou shalt not have in thy house divers measures,—a great and a small.
A weight full and just, shalt thou have, a measure full and just, shalt thou have,—that thy days may be prolonged upon the soil which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee.
For an abomination unto Yahweh thy God, is every one that doeth these things,—every one that doeth unjustly.
Remember that which Amalek did unto thee by the way when ye came forth out of Egypt;
how he encountered thee by the way and cut off in thy rear all the worn-out behind thee, thou thyself, being weary and worn,—how he feared not God.
Therefore shall it be when Yahweh thy God hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about in the land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee for an inheritance to possess it, then shalt thou wipe out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens,—thou shalt not forget.