And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned unto his own house in peace, to Jerusalem.
And there came out to meet him, Jehu son of Hanani, the seer, who said unto King Jehoshaphat, Unto the lawless, was it [right] to give help? and, on them who hate Yahweh, to bestow thy love? For this cause, therefore, is there wrath against thee, from before Yahweh;
howbeit, good things, are found with thee,-for that thou hast consumed the Sacred Stems out of the land, and hast fixed thy heart to seek God.
So Jehoshaphat dwelt in Jerusalem,—and he again went forth among the people, from Beersheba as far as the hill country of Ephraim, and brought them back unto Yahweh, the God of their fathers.
And he stationed judges in the land, throughout all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city;
and said unto the judges, See what, ye, are doing, inasmuch as, not for man, must ye judge, but for Yahweh,—who will be with you, in the word of justice.
Now, therefore, let the dread of Yahweh be upon you,—observe and do, for there is, with Yahweh our God, neither perversity nor respect of persons nor the taking of bribes.
And, even in Jerusalem, did Jehoshaphat station some of the Levites and the priests, and of the ancestral chiefs of Israel, to pronounce the just sentence of Yahweh, and to settle disputes,—when they returned to Jerusalem.
And he laid charge upon them, saying,—Thus, shall ye act, in the fear of Yahweh, faithfully and with an undivided heart.
Any dispute that shall come in unto you from among your brethren who are dwelling in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment and statutes and regulations, then shall ye warn them, that they may not become guilty against Yahweh, and so wrath come upon you and upon your brethren,—Thus, shall ye act, and not incur guilt.
And lo! Amariah the chief priest, is over you as to every matter of Yahweh, and Zebadiah son of Ishmael the chief ruler for the house of Judah, as to every matter of the king, and, as officers, the Levites are before you,—Be strong and act, and Yahweh be with the good!