Him that is weak in his faith, receive ye,—not for disputing opinions:—
One, indeed, hath faith to eat all things, whereas, he that is weak, eateth herbs:
Let not, him that eateth, despise him that eateth not, and let not, him that eateth not, judge him that eateth; for, God, hath received him.
Who art, thou, that judgest another’s domestic? To his own master, he standeth or falleth; he shall, however, be made to stand,—for his master is able to make him stand.
[For], one, indeed esteemeth one day beyond another, whereas, another, esteemeth every day:—let, each one, in his own mind be fully persuaded.
He that regardeth the day, unto the Lord, regardeth it,—and, he that eateth, unto the Lord, doth eat, for he giveth thanks unto God; and, he that eateth not, unto the Lord, doth not eat and give God thanks.
For, none of us, unto himself liveth, and, none, unto himself dieth;
For both, if we live, unto the Lord, we live, and, if we die, unto the Lord, we die; whether therefore we live, the Lord’s, we are; or whether we die, the Lord’s, we are;
For, to this end, Christ died and lived, in order that, both of dead and living, he might have lordship.
But, thou, why dost thou judge thy brother? Aye! and thou, why dost thou despise thy brother? For, all of us, shall present ourselves unto the judgment seat of God;
For it is written—Living am, I, saith the Lord, unto me, shall bow every knee, and, every tongue, shall openly confess unto God.
Hence, [then], each one of us, of himself shall give account unto God.
No longer, then, upon one another, let us be sitting in judgment, but, this, judge ye rather—not to be putting a cause of stumbling before your brother or an occasion to fall.
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus—that, nothing, is profane of itself,—save to him who reckoneth anything to be profane, unto that man, [it is] profane,
If, in fact, because of food, thy brother is being grieved, no longer, by the rule of love, art thou walking:—do not, by thy food, that man, be destroying, on whose behalf Christ died!
Therefore, suffer not to be defamed, your own good thing;
For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in Holy Spirit;
For, he that in this doeth service unto the Christ, is acceptable unto God, and approved unto men.
Hence, then, the things pertaining to peace, let us pursue, and the things which belong to the upbuilding one of another:
Do not, for the sake of food, be throwing down the work of God! All things, indeed, are pure; but, ill, is it for the man who with occasion of stumbling doth eat,—
Well, is it not to eat flesh nor to drink wine nor [to do aught] whereby thy brother is caused to stumble.
The faith which thou hast, have to thyself before God: happy, he that bringeth not judgment upon himself by that which he approveth;
But, he that is in doubt, if he eat, hath condemned himself,—because, [it was] not of faith, and, everything which is not of faith, is sin.