To the Chief Musician, on the deer of the dawn. A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why have You forsaken me, and are far from my deliverance, from the words of my groaning?
O my God, I cry by day, but You do not answer; and in the night, and there is no silence to me.
But You are holy, being enthroned on Israel's praises.
Our fathers trusted in You; they trusted, and You delivered them.
They cried to You, and were delivered; they trusted in You, and were not ashamed.
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of mankind, and despised by the people.
All who see Me scornfully laugh at me; they open the lip; they shake the head, saying ,
He rolled on Jehovah, let Him deliver Him; let Him rescue Him, since He delights in Him.
For You are He , my Taker from the womb; causing me to trust on My mother's breasts.
I was cast on You from the womb, from My mother's belly, You are my God.
Be not far from Me; for trouble is near; because no one is there to help.
Many bulls have circled around Me; strong bulls of Bashan have surrounded Me.
They opened their mouth on Me, like a lion ripping and roaring.
I am poured out like waters, and all My bones are spread apart; My heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of My bowels.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and My tongue clings to My jaws;
and You appoint Me to the dust of death; for dogs have encircled Me; band of spoilers have hemmed Me in, piercers of My hands and My feet.
I count all My bones; they look, they stare at Me.
They divide My garments among them, and they made fall a lot for My clothing.
But You, O Jehovah, be not far off; O My Strength, hurry to help Me!
Deliver My soul from the sword, My only one from the paw of the dog.
Save Me from the lion's mouth; and from the horns of the wild oxen. You have answered Me.
I will declare Your name to My brothers; I will praise You in the midst of the assembly.
You who fear Jehovah, praise Him; all the seed of Jacob, glorify Him; and all the seed of Israel, fear Him.
For He has not despised nor hated the affliction of the afflicted; and He has not hidden His face from him, but when He cried to Him, He heard.
My praise shall be of You in the great assembly; I will pay my vows before His fearers.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek Jehovah shall praise Him; your heart shall live forever.
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn back to Jehovah; and all the families of the nations shall worship before You.
For the kingdom is Jehovah's; and He is the ruler among the nations.
All the fat ones of the earth have eaten, and have worshiped; all those going down to the dust shall bow before Him; and he kept not his own soul alive.
A seed shall serve Him; it shall be spoken of the Lord to the coming generation;
they shall come and shall declare His righteousness to a people that shall yet be born; for He has done it.