Paul, an apostle (not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
and all the brothers with me, to the churches of Galatia.
Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave Himself for our sins, that He might deliver us from this present evil world according to the will of God and our Father,
to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
I marvel that you so soon are being moved away from Him who called you into the grace of Christ, to another gospel,
which is not another, but some are troubling you, and desiring to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But even if we or an angel from Heaven preach a gospel to you beside what we preached to you, let him be accursed.
As we said before, and now I say again, If anyone preaches a gospel to you beside what you have received, let him be accursed.
For now do I persuade men, or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I yet pleased men, I would not be a servant of Christ.
And, brothers, I make known to you the gospel which was preached by me, that it is not according to man.
For I did not receive it from man, nor was I taught it except by a revelation of Jesus Christ.
For you heard my manner of life when I was in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God with surpassing zeal, and ravaged it.
And I progressed in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being much more a zealot of the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and having called me by His grace,
to reveal His Son in me so that I might preach Him among the nations, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood;
Nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those apostles before me, but I went into Arabia and returned again to Damascus.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and stayed with him fifteen days.
But I saw no other of the apostles, except James the Lord's brother.
And what I write to you, behold, before God, I do not lie.
Then I went into the regions of Syria and of Cilicia,
and was unknown by face to the churches of Judea in Christ.
But only they were hearing that he who then persecuted us, now preaches the faith which he once ravaged.
And they glorified God in me.