And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Make two trumpets of silver for yourself. You shall make them of beaten work. And they shall be used for the calling of the assembly and for causing the camps to go forward.
And when they shall blow with them, all the assembly shall gather themselves to you at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And if they blow with one, then the rulers who are heads of the thousands of Israel shall gather themselves to you.
When you blow an alarm, then the camps that lie on the east parts shall pull up.
When you blow an alarm the second time, then the camps that lie on the south side shall pull up. They shall blow an alarm for their journeys.
But when the congregation is to be gathered, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow with the trumpets. And they shall be to you for an ordinance forever throughout your generations.
And if you go to war in your land against the enemy who fights against you, then you shall blow with the trumpets. And you shall be remembered before the LORD your God, and you shall be saved from your enemies.
Also in the day of your gladness, and in your solemn days, and in the beginnings of your months, you shall blow with the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings, so that they may be to you for a memorial before your GOD. I am the LORD your God.
And on the twentieth of the second month, in the second year, the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle of the testimony.
And the sons of Israel pulled up in their journeyings out of the wilderness of Sinai. And the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran.
And at the mouth of Jehovah they first pulled up stakes, by the hand of Moses.
And at the front the sons of Judah pulled up the standard of the camp by their armies. And over his army was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Issachar was Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
And the tabernacle was taken down. And the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari pulled up, carrying the tabernacle.
And the standard of the camp of Reuben pulled up according to their armies. And over his army was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
And the Kohathites pulled up carrying the sanctuary. And the tabernacle was set up before they came.
And the standard of the camp of the sons of Ephraim pulled up according to their armies. And over his army was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
And the standard of the camp of the sons of Dan set forward, the rear guard of all the camps throughout their army. And over his army was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Asher was Pagiel, the son of Ocran.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
These were the journeyings of the sons of Israel according to their armies when they pulled up.
And Moses said to Hobab the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses' father-in-law: We are going to the place of which the LORD said, I will give it to you. Come with us, and we will do you good. For the LORD has spoken good concerning Israel.
And he said to him, I will not go, but I will go to my own land and to my kindred.
And he said, Please do not leave us, because you know how we are to camp in the wilderness, and so you may be to us for eyes.
And it shall be, if you go with us, then it shall be, whatever goodness the LORD shall do to us, the same will we do to you.
And they moved three days' journey from the mountain of the LORD. And the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them in the three days' journey, to look for a resting-place for them.
And the cloud of the LORD was upon them by day, when they pulled up out of the camp.
And it happened when the ark pulled up, Moses said, Rise up, LORD, and let Your enemies be scattered, and let those who hate You flee before You.
And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, to the many thousands of Israel.