Now, these, were the sons of David, who were born to him in Hebron,—the firstborn, Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, the second, Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelitess;
the third, Absalom, son of Maacah, daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur,—the fourth, Adonijah, son of Haggith;
the fifth, Shephatiah, by Abital,—the sixth, Ithream, by Eglah his wife:
six born to him in Hebron, and he reigned there, seven years and six months. And, thirty and three years, reigned he, in Jerusalem.
And, these, were born to him in Jerusalem, Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon—four, by Bathshua, daughter of Ammiel;
and Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,
and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet—nine.
All, sons of David,—besides sons of concubines, and, Tamar, their sister.
And, the son of Solomon, was Rehoboam,—Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son;
Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son;
Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son;
Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son;
Amon his son, Josiah his son.
And, the sons of Josiah, the firstborn, Johanan, the second, Jehoiakim,—the third, Zedekiah, the fourth, Shallum.
And, the sons of Jehoiakim,—Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.
And, the sons of Jeconiah the captive, Shealtiel his son;
and Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar,—Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
And, the sons of Pedaiah, Zerubbabel, and Shimei,—and, the sons of Zerubbabel, Meshullam, and Hananiah, and, Shelomith, was their sister;
and Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-hesed—five.
And, the sons of Hananiah, Pelatiah, and Jeshaiah,—the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah;
and, the sons of Shecaniah, Shemaiah,—and, the sons of Shemaiah, Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat—six;
and, the son of Neariah, Elioenai, and Hizkiah, and Azrikam—three;
and, the sons of Elioenai, Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani—seven.