And, brothers, we make known to you the grace of God which has been given among the churches of Macedonia;
that in much testing of trouble, the overflowing of their joy, and the depth of their poverty, abounded to the riches of their generosity.
For I testify that according to their ability, and beyond their ability; they gave willingly;
with much beseeching, begging us that they might receive of us the grace and the fellowship of the ministry to the saints.
And not as we hoped, but first they gave themselves to the Lord, and to us through the will of God,
for us to call on Titus, that even as he began before, so he would also complete this grace to you also.
But even as you abound in everything, in faith, and in word, and in knowledge, and in all earnestness, and in your love to us; you should abound in this grace also.
I do not speak according to command, but through the eagerness of others, and testing the trueness of your love.
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though He was rich, for your sakes He became poor, in order that you might be made rich through His poverty.
And in this I give my judgment; for this is profitable for you, who began before, not only to do, but also to be willing a year ago.
But now also finish the doing of it, so that, as there was a readiness to will, so also the finishing, giving out of what you have.
For if the eagerness is present, it is acceptable according to what one has, and not according to what one does not have.
For it is not that others may have ease, but you trouble;
but by equality in the present time; your abundance for their need, that their abundance also may be for your need; so that there may be equality;
as it is written, "He gathering much, he had nothing left over; and he gathering little did not have less."
But thanks be to God, who put the same earnest care into the heart of Titus for you.
For indeed he accepted the entreaty. But being more earnest, of his own accord he went to you.
And we have sent with him the brothers whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches;
and not only so, but also he having been chosen by the churches to travel with us with this gift, which is administered by us to the glory of the Lord Himself, and as a witness of your eager mind;
avoiding this, that no man should blame us in this abundance which is administered by us;
providing for honest things, not only before the Lord, but also before men.
And we have sent with them our brother whom we have often proved earnest in many things, but now much more earnest by the great confidence which I have in you.
If anyone inquires of Titus, he is my partner and fellow-worker for you, or of our brothers, they are the messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ.
Therefore show them a proof of your love and of our boasting toward you in the presence of the churches.