And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples saith to him, Teacher, see! what stones, and what buildings!
And Jesus said to him, Seest thou these great buildings? There will not be left one stone upon another, that will not be thrown down.
And as he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately,
Tell us, when will these things be? and what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished?
And Jesus began to say to them, See that no one deceive you.
Many will come in my name, saying, I am He; and will deceive many.
And when ye hear of wars, and rumors of wars, be not troubled; they must come to pass; but not yet is the end.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there will be earthquakes in divers places; there will be famines. These things are the beginning of travail-pains.
But do ye take heed to yourselves; they will deliver you up to councils, and ye will be taken into synagogues and beaten; and ye will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them.
And the glad tidings must first be published to all the nations.
And when they lead you away to deliver you up, be not anxious beforehand as to what ye shall speak; but whatever shall be given you in that hour, that speak; for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Spirit.
And brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child; and children will rise up against parents, and put them to death.
And ye will be hated by all on account of my name. But he that endureth to the end will be saved.
But when ye see the abomination of desolation standing where it ought not,—let him that readeth understand,—then let those who are in Judaea flee to the mountains;
let not him that is on the house-top go down, nor enter, to take anything out of his house;
and let not him that is in the field turn back to take his garment.
And woe to the women with child, and to those with children at the breast, in those days!
And pray that it may not be in winter.
For those days will be a time of distress, such as hath not been from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, nor shall be.
And if the Lord had not shortened the days, no flesh would have been saved; but for the sake of the chosen whom he chose, he shortened the days.
And then if any one shall say to you, See! here is the Christ; see! there; believe him not.
For false Christs and false prophets will rise up, and will do signs and wonders, to lead astray, if possible, the chosen.
But do ye take heed! I have told you all beforehand.
But in those days, after that distress, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give her light;
and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
And then will they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.
And then will he send forth the angels, and will gather the chosen ones from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven.
And from the fig-tree learn its parable. When its branch hath now become tender, and putteth forth its leaves, ye know that summer is near.
So also, when ye see these things coming to pass, know ye that he is near, at the doors.
Truly do I say to you, that this generation will not pass away, till all these things take place.
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
But that day or hour knoweth no one, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
Take heed, watch; for ye know not when the time is.
As a man going abroad, having left his house and given authority to his servants, to each one his work, also commanded the porter to watch,
so also watch ye; for ye know not when the master of the house is coming, whether at evening, or at midnight, or at the cock-crowing, or in the morning;
lest coming suddenly, he find you sleeping.
And what I say to you, I say to all: Watch.