And thou shalt make the altar of acacia wood,—of five cubits length and five cubits breadth four square, shall the altar be, and three cubits the height thereof.
And thou shalt make its horns upon its four corners, of the same, shall be its horns,—and thou shalt overlay it with copper.
And thou shalt make its pans for removing its ashes, and its shovels and its sprinkling bowls, and its flesh-hooks and its fire-pans,—all its vessels, shalt thou make of bronze.
And thou shalt make to it a grating, a network of bronze,—and thou shalt make upon the network, four rings of bronze, upon the four corners thereof.
And thou shalt place it under the margin of the altar beneath,—so shall the network reach unto the midst of the altar.
And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of acacia wood,—and shalt overlay them with copper.
And the staves shall be brought into the rings,—so shall the staves be on the two sides of the altar in lifting it:
Hollow with boards, shalt thou make it,—as it was showed thee in the mount, so, shall they make it.
And thou shalt make the court of the habitation,—on the south side southward, hangings for the court of fine-twined linen, a hundred cubits in length to the one side;
and the pillars thereof twenty, with their sockets twenty, of bronze,—and the hooks of the pillars and their cross-rods of silver.
And, so, for the north side in length, hangings a hundred cubits,—and the pillars thereof twenty, and their sockets twenty. of bronze, and the hooks of the pillars and their cross-rods of silver.
And, the breadth of the court on the west side, hangings fifty cubits,—their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
And, the breadth of the court on the east side eastward, fifty cubits;
and fifteen cubits the hangings for the side-piece,—their pillars three, and their sockets three;
and, for the second side-piece, fifteen hangings,—their pillars three, and their sockets three,
And for the gate of the court, a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple and crimson and fine-twined linen, the work of an embroiderer,—their pillars four, and their sockets four.
All the pillars of the court round about, to be joined with cross-rods of silver, and their hooks of silver,—and their sockets of bronze,
The length of the court, a hundred cubits and the breadth fifty throughout and the height five cubits of fine-twined linen,—and their sockets, of bronze.
All the utensils of the habitation, throughout all the service thereof,—and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, of bronze.
Thou thyself, therefore, shalt command the sons of Israel that they bring unto thee—pure, beaten olive-oil, for giving light,—that the lamp may lift up its flame continually.
In the tent of meeting, outside the veil which is by the testimony, shall Aaron and his sons order it from evening until morning, before Yahweh,—a statute age-abiding, to their generations, from the sons of Israel.