To man, belong the preparations of the heart, but, from Yahweh, cometh the answer of the tongue.
All the ways of a man, [may be] pure in his own eyes, but, he that testeth spirits, is Yahweh.
Roll, upon Yahweh, thy doings, that thy plans, may be established.
Everything, hath Yahweh made for its own purpose, yea, even the lawless one, for the day of calamity.
An abomination to Yahweh, is every one who is haughty in heart, hand to hand, he shall not be held innocent.
By lovingkindness and fidelity, shall iniquity be covered, and, in the revering of Yahweh, is a turning away from wrong.
When, acceptable to Yahweh, are the ways of a man, even his enemies, doth he cause to make peace with him.
Better a little with righteousness, than large revenues, without justice.
A man’s heart, deviseth his way, but, Yahweh, directeth his steps.
An oracle, is on the lips of a king, in giving sentence, his mouth must not be unfaithful.
The balance and scales of justice, belong to Yahweh, and, his handiwork, are all the weights of the bag.
The abomination of kings, is to work lawlessness, for, by righteousness, is established a throne.
The delight of kings, are lips of righteousness,—and, the words of uprightness, he loveth.
The wrath of a king, [meaneth] messengers of death, but, a man who is wise, will appease it.
In the light of a king’s countenance, is life, and, his good-pleasure, is like the cloud of harvest-rain.
To acquire wisdom, how much better than gold! and, to get hold of understanding, more choice than silver!
The highway of the upright, is to avoid evil, He preserveth his soul, who guardeth his way.
Before grievous injury, pride! and, before a fall, haughtiness of spirit!
Better is lowliness of spirit, with the patient, than a portion of spoil, with the proud.
He that showeth discretion concerning a matter, shall find good, and, he that trusteth in Yahweh, how happy is he!
The wise in heart, shall be called intelligent, and, sweetness of lips, increaseth persuasiveness.
A well-spring of life, is discretion to its owner, but, the correction of the foolish, is folly.
The heart of the wise, giveth discretion to his mouth, and, upon his lips, increaseth persuasiveness.
A comb of honey, are pleasant words, sweet to the taste and healing to the bone.
There is a way that enticeth a man, but, at the latter end thereof, are the ways of death.
The appetite of the toiler, hath toiled for him, for his mouth, hath urged him on.
An abandoned man, diggeth up mischief,—and, upon his lips, as it were a fire is scorching.
A perverse man, sendeth forth strife, and, a tattler, separateth intimate friends.
A ruthless man, enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him in a way, not good.
Closing his eyes, to devise perverse things, biting his lips, he hath plotted mischief.
A crown of adorning, is a hoary head, in the way of righteousness, it should be found.
Better he that is slow to anger, than a hero, and he that ruleth his spirit, than he that captureth a city.
Into the lap, is cast the lot, but, from Yahweh, is its every decision.