Let not your heart be troubled; believe in God; believe also in me.
In my Father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you with myself, that where I am, you may be also.
And whither I go you know, and the way you know.
Thomas said to him: Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way?
Jesus said to him: I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father, but through me.
If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. And from this time you know him, and have seen him.
Philip said to him: Lord, show us the Father, and we shall be content.
Jesus said to him: Have I been so long with you, and have you not known me, Philip? He that has seen me, has seen the Father; and how say you, Show us the Father?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me? The words that I speak to you, I speak not of myself. The Father who dwells in me, he does the works.
Believe me, that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me. If not, believe me on account of the works themselves.
Verily, verily I say to you, he that believes on me, the works that I do he also shall do. Even greater works than these shall he do, because I go to my Father;
and whatever you ask in my name, I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
If you love me, keep my commandments;
and I will pray the Father, and he will give you another Paraclete, that he may dwell with you forever;
the Spirit of the truth, whom the world can not receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. But you know him, because he dwells with you, and shall be in you.
I will not leave you orphans; I am coming to you.
Yet a little while, and the world sees me no more; but you shall see me. Because I live, you also shall live.
In that clay you shall know that I am in my Father, arid you in me, and I in you.
He that has my commandments and keeps them, he it is that loves me; and he that loves me shall be loved by my Father; and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
Judas, not Iscariot, said to him: Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself to us, and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him: If any one loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our abode with him.
He that loves me not, keeps not my words; and the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father’s who sent me.
These things have I spoken to you, while I am yet with you.
But the Paraclete, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all things that I have spoken to you.
Peace I leave to you; my peace I give to you; not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, and let it not be afraid.
You have heard that I said to you, I am going away, and am coming again to you. If you loved me, you would rejoice, because I go to the Father; for my Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it comes to pass, that when it does come to pass, you may believe.
I will not talk much more with you; for the prince of this world is coming, and has nothing in me.
But this takes place that the world may know that I love the Father, and even as he gave me commandment, so I do. Arise, let us go hence.