And as he went forth out of the temple, one of his disciples says to him, Teacher, see what kind of stones and what kind of buildings.
And Jesus having answered, he said to him, See thou these great buildings? There will be left, no, not a stone upon a stone, that will, no, not be brought down.
And as he sat upon the mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew questioned him privately,
Tell us, when will these things be? And what is the sign when all these things are going to be fulfilled?
And having answered them, Jesus began to say to them, Watch that not any man lead you astray.
For many will come in my name, saying, I am, and they will lead many astray.
And when ye may hear of wars and rumors of wars, be not alarmed, for it must happen, but the end is not yet.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines and troubles. These things are the beginnings of travails.
But watch ye yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils, and ye will be beaten in synagogues. And ye will be stood before rulers and kings because of me, for a testimony to them.
And the good news must first be preached to all the nations.
But when they lead you, delivering you up, be not anxious before what ye might speak, nor meditate. But whatever may be given you in that hour, speak ye this, for ye are not who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
And brother will betray brother to death, and a father a child. And children will rise up against parents, and will condemn them to death.
And ye will be hated by all men because of my name, but he who endures to the end, this man will be saved.
But when ye see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not (let him who reads understand), then let those in Judea flee to the mountains,
and let the man on the housetop not go down into the house, nor enter in to take anything out of his house,
and let the man who is in the field not turn back for the things behind, to take his cloak.
But woe to those who have in the womb, and to those who suckle in those days.
And pray ye that your flight may not be in winter.
For those days will be tribulation, such as has not happened from the beginning of the creation that God created until now, and no, will not happen.
And unless the Lord cut short the days, no flesh would have been saved, but because of the chosen, whom he chose, he cut short the days.
And then if any man should say to you, Lo, here is the Christ, or, Lo, there, do not believe.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will give signs and wonders, in order to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen.
But watch ye. Behold, I have foretold all to you.
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
and the stars of the sky will be falling, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.
And then they will see the Son of man coming in clouds with much power and glory.
And then he will send forth his agents, and will gather together his chosen from the four winds, from the outermost part of the earth as far as the outermost part of heaven.
But learn a parable from the fig tree. When its branch now becomes tender, and sprouts the leaves, ye know that summer is near.
So ye also, when ye may see these things happening, know ye that it is near, at the doors.
Truly I say to you, that this generation will, no, not pass away, until all these things happen.
The sky and the earth will pass away, but my words may, no, not pass away.
But about that day or that hour no man knows, not even the agents in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
Watch ye! Be alert and pray, for ye know not when the time is,
like a man abroad, having left his house, and having given authority to his bondmen, and to each man his work, and commanded the doorkeeper that he should watch.
Watch therefore, for ye know not when the lord of the house comes, at evening, or at midnight, or at cock crowing, or in the morning,
lest having come suddenly, he may find you sleeping.
And what I say to you I say to all, watch!