Therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
And the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit the same to faithful men who will be able to teach others also.
Therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
No one who wars tangles with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who chose him to be a soldier.
And also if anyone competes, he is not crowned unless he competes lawfully.
It is right for the laboring farmer to partake first of the fruits.
Consider what I say, and the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel,
in which I suffer ill as an evildoer, even to bonds. But the Word of God is not chained.
Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
Faithful is the word, for if we are dead with Him, we shall also live with Him.
If we suffer, we shall also reign with Him. If we deny Him, He also will deny us.
If we do not believe Him, yet He remains faithful; He cannot deny Himself.
Put them in memory of these things, charging them before the Lord not to dispute about words to no profit, to the subverting of the hearers.
Study earnestly to present yourself approved to God, a workman that does not need to be ashamed, rightly dividing the Word of Truth.
But shun profane, vain babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness.
And their word will eat like a gangrene; among whom are Hymeneus and Philetus,
who have erred concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already past, and who overthrow the faith of some.
Nevertheless the foundation of God stands sure, having this seal: " The Lord knew those who are His." And, "Let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity!"
But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honor, and some to dishonor.
Therefore if anyone purges himself from these, he shall be a vessel to honor, sanctified and useful to the Master, prepared for every good work.
But flee youthful lusts, and follow righteousness, faith, love, peace, with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
But avoid foolish and unlearned questions, knowing that they give birth to strifes.
But the servant of the Lord must not strive, but to be gentle to all, apt to teach, patient,
in meekness instructing those who oppose, if perhaps God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth,
and that they awake out of the snare of the Devil, having been taken captive by him, so as to do the will of that one.