Then what is the superiority of the Jew? Or what is the profit of circumcision?
Much, by every way! Chiefly, indeed, because they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
For what? If some did not believe, will not their unbelief nullify the faith of God?
Let it not be! But let God be true, and every man a liar; as it is written, "That You might be justified in Your sayings, and will overcome when You are judged."
But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who lays on wrath? (I speak as a man.)
Let it not be! For then how shall God judge the world?
For if in my lie the truth has more abounded to His glory why am I still judged as a sinner?
And not rather, (as we are wrongly accused, and as some affirm that we say), Let us do bad things that good may come? Their condemnation is just.
What then? Do we excel? No, in no way; for we have before charged both Jews and Greeks all with being under sin,
as it is written: "There is none righteous, no not one;
there is none that understands, there is none that seeks after God."
"They are all gone out of the way, they have together become unprofitable, there is none that does good, no, not one."
"Their throat is an open grave, with their tongues they have used deceit, the poison of asps is under their lips;
whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness;"
"their feet are swift to shed blood;
destruction and misery are in their way,
and the way of peace they did not know."
"There is no fear of God before their eyes."
But we know that whatever things the Law says, it says to those who are under the Law; so that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may be under judgment before God,
because by the works of the Law none of all flesh will be justified in His sight; for through the Law is the knowledge of sin.
But now a righteousness of God has been revealed apart from Law, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets;
even the righteousness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ, toward all and upon all those who believe. For there is no difference,
for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God,
being justified freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus;
whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in His blood, to declare His righteousness through the passing by of the sins that had taken place before, in the forbearance of God;
for the display of His righteousness at this time, for Him to be just and, forgiving the one being of the faith of Jesus.
Then where is the boasting? It is excluded. Through what law? Of works? No, but through the law of faith.
Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the works of the law.
Or is He the God of the Jews only, and not also of the nations? Yes, of the nations also,
since it is one God who will justify circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith.
Do we then make the Law void through faith? Let it not be! But we establish the Law.