Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things, saith he that holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks:
I know thy works and thy labour and thy patience and how thou canst not bear those who are evil; and thou hast tried those who say they are apostles and are not and hast found them liars,
and hast suffered, and doth suffer and for my name's sake hast laboured and hast not fainted.
Nevertheless I have against thee that thou hast left thy first [love], charity.
Remember, therefore, from where thou art fallen and repent and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly and will remove thy candlestick out of its place, except thou repent.
But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
He that has an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcomes I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.
And unto the angel of the church of Smyrna write: These things, saith the first and the last, who was dead, and is alive:
I know thy works and tribulation and poverty, (but thou art rich), and [I know] the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews and are not, but [are] the synagogue of Satan.
Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer; behold, the devil shall cast [some] of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days; be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life.
He that has an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; He that overcomes shall not be hurt by the second death.
And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write; These things, saith he, who has the sharp sword with two edges:
I know thy works and where thou dwellest, [even] where Satan's throne [is], and thou holdest fast my name and hast not denied my faith, even in those days in which Antipas [was] my faithful witness, who was slain among you, where Satan dwellest.
But I have a few things against thee because thou hast there those that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a stumblingblock before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols and to commit fornication.
So hast thou also those that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which I hate.
Repent, or else I will come unto thee quickly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
He that has an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcomes I will give to eat of the hidden manna and will give him a small white stone and in the stone a new name written, which no one knows except the one that receives [it].
And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These things, saith the Son of God, who has his eyes like unto a flame of fire and his feet like unto brilliant metal:
I have known thy works and charity and service and faith and thy patience and thy works and the last [to be] more than the first.
Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel (who calls herself a prophetess) to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols.
And I have given her time to repent of her fornication, and she repented not.
Behold, I will cast her into a bed and those that commit adultery with her into great tribulation unless they repent of their deeds.
And I will kill her children with death, and all the churches shall know that I AM he that searches the kidneys and hearts, and I will give unto each one of you according to your works.
But unto you I say and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as do not have this doctrine and who have not known the depths of Satan (as they say); I will put upon you no other burden
But that which ye have [already] hold fast until I come.
And he that overcomes and keeps my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the Gentiles;
and he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter they shall be broken to shivers, even as I received of my Father.
And I will give him the morning star.
He that has an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.: