And the word of Jehovah was to me , saying,
So says Jehovah of hosts: I was jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I was jealous for her with great wrath.
So says Jehovah: I have returned to Zion, and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem shall be called a city of truth, and the mountain of Jehovah of hosts, the holy mountain.
So says Jehovah of hosts: There shall yet be old men and old women sitting in the streets of Jerusalem; and each man with his staff in his hand because of their many days.
And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.
So says Jehovah of hosts: If it is marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days, will it also be marvelous in My eyes? says Jehovah of hosts.
So says Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will save My people from the rising sun and from the land of the setting sun.
And I will bring them, and they shall live in the midst of Jerusalem. And they shall be for a people to Me, and I will be their God, in truth and in righteousness.
So says Jehovah of hosts: Let your hands be strong, you who hear in these days these words by the mouth of the prophets, that in the day the house of Jehovah of hosts is laid, the temple is to be built.
For before those days there was no payment for man, nor was there payment for animal; and there was no peace to him from the adversary who went out or came in. For I sent every man, a man against his neighbor.
But now I will not be to the remnant of this people as in former days, says Jehovah of hosts.
For there shall be peace for the seed: the vine shall give its fruit, and the ground shall give its produce, and the heavens shall give their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these.
And it shall be, as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so I will save you, and you shall be a blessing. Do not fear; let your hands be strong.
For so says Jehovah of hosts: As I purposed to punish you when your fathers provoked Me to wrath, says Jehovah of hosts. And I did not repent,
So again I have purposed in these days to do good to Jerusalem, and the house of Judah. Do not fear.
These are the things that you shall do. Let each man speak the truth with his neighbor. Judge with truth and justice for peace in your gates,
and let each devise no evil in your heart against his neighbor, and do not love a false oath. For all these I hate, says Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah of hosts was to me, saying,
So says Jehovah of hosts: The fast of the fourth month , and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth, shall become for joy and gladness and cheerful feasts to the house of Judah. Therefore, love truth and peace.
So says Jehovah of hosts: There shall yet come peoples, and inhabitants of many cities.
And the inhabitants of one shall go to another, saying, Let us go at once to seek the favor of the face of Jehovah, and to seek Jehovah of hosts; I will go also.
And many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek Jehovah of hosts in Jerusalem, and to seek the favor of the face of Jehovah.
So says Jehovah of hosts: In those days ten men out of all languages of the nations shall take hold, and will seize the skirt of a man, a Jew, saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.