Then the kingdom of Heaven shall be compared to ten virgins who taking their lamps, went out to a meeting of the bridegroom.
And five of them were wise, and five foolish.
Those being foolish, taking their lamps, did not take oil with them.
But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
But the bridegroom delaying, all nodded and slept.
And at midnight, a cry occurred: Behold, the bridegroom comes! Go out to meet him.
Then all those virgins arose and prepared their lamps.
And the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.
But the wise answered, saying, No , lest there not be enough for us and you. But rather, go to those who sell and buy for yourselves.
But they going away to buy, the bridegroom came. And those ready went in with him to the wedding feast, and the door was shut.
And afterwards, the rest of the virgins also came, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
But answering, he said, Truly I say to you, I do not know you.
Therefore, watch, for you do not know the day nor the hour in which the Son of man comes.
For it is as if a man going abroad called his own slaves and delivered his goods to them.
And to one indeed he gave five talents, and to another, two, and to another, one, to each according to his ability. And he went abroad at once.
And going, the one who received the five talents worked with them and made another five talents.
In the same way, the one with the two also did ; he also gained another two.
But going away, the one who received the one dug in the earth and hid his lord's silver.
And after much time, the lord of those slaves came and took account with them.
And coming up, the one who received five talents brought another five talents near, saying, Lord, you delivered five talents to me. Behold, I gained another five talents above them.
And his lord said to him, Well done , good and faithful slave. You were faithful over a few things; I will set you over many. Enter into the joy of your lord.
And the one who received two talents also coming up, he said, Lord, you delivered two talents to me. Behold, I have gained two other talents above them.
His lord said to him, Well done , good and faithful slave. You were faithful over a few things, I will set you over many. Enter into the joy of your lord.
And the one who received the one talent also coming up, he said, Lord, I knew you, that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter;
and being afraid, going away, I hid your talent in the earth. Behold, you have yours.
And answering, his lord said to him, Evil and slothful slave! You knew that I reap where I did not sow, and gather where I did not I scatter.
Then you ought to have put my silver to the bankers, and coming I would have received my own with interest.
Therefore, take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
For to each who has, more will be given, and he will abound. But from him who does not have, even that which he has will be taken from him.
And throw the worthless slave out into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of the teeth.
But when the Son of man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then He will sit on the throne of His glory.
And before Him shall be gathered all the nations; and He will separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
And indeed He will set the sheep off His right, but the goats off the left hand .
Then the King will say to those on His right, Come, the blessed of My Father. Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
For I hungered, and you gave Me food to eat; I thirsted, and you gave Me drink; I was a stranger, and you took Me in;
naked, and you clothed Me; I was sick, and you visited Me; I was in prison, and you came to Me.
Then the righteous will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see You hungry, and fed You ; or thirsting, and gave You drink?
And when did we see You a stranger, and took You in; or naked, and clothed You ?
And when did we see You sick, or in prison, and came to You?
And answering, the King will say to them, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you did it to one of these, the least of My brothers, you did it to Me.
Then He will also say to those on His left, Go away from Me, cursed ones, into the everlasting fire having been prepared for the Devil and his angels.
For I hungered, and you gave Me nothing to eat; I thirsted, and you gave me nothing to drink;
I was a stranger, and you did not take Me in; naked, and you did not clothe Me; sick, and in prison, and you did not visit Me.
Then they also will answer Him, saying, Lord, when did we see You hungering, or thirsting, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to You?
Then He will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you did not do it to one of these, the least, neither did you do it to Me.
And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into everlasting life.