And I saw a messenger, coming down out of heaven, having the key of the abyss, and a great chain upon his hand;
and he laid hold of the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is Adversary and the Accuser, and bound him for a thousand years,—
and cast him into the abyss, and fastened and sealed [it] over him,—that he might not deceive the nations any more, until the thousand years, should be ended: after these, must he be loosed for a short time.
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and sentence of judgment was given unto them; and [I saw] the souls of them who had been beheaded because of the witness of Jesus and because of the word of God, and such as had not done homage unto the wild-beast or unto his image, nor had received the mark upon their forehead or upon their hand; and they lived and reigned with the Christ, for a thousand years.
The rest of the dead, lived not, until the thousand years, were ended. This, is the first resurrection.
Happy and holy, is he that hath part in the first resurrection: upon these, the second death, hath no authority; but they shall be priests of God and of the Christ, and shall reign with him for the thousand years.
And, as soon as the thousand years, shall be ended, the Accuser shall be loosed out of his prison,
and will go forth to deceive the nations that are in the four corners of the earth, the Gog and Magog, to gather them together unto the battle—the number of whom, is as the sand of the sea.
And they came up over the breadth of the land, and surrounded the camp of the saints, and the beloved city. And there came down fire out of heaven, and devoured them;
and, the Adversary that had been deceiving them, was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where [were] both the wild-beast and the false-prophet; and they shall be tormented, day and night, unto the ages of ages.
And I saw a great white throne, and him that was sitting thereon, from whose face fled the earth and heaven, and, place, was not found for them.
And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne; and, books, were opened, and, another book, was opened, which is, the book, of life; and the dead, were judged, out of the things written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead that were in it, and, death and hades, gave up the dead that were in them; and they were judged, each one, according to their works.
And, death and hades, were cast into the lake of fire. This, is, the second death—the lake of fire.
And, if anyone was not found, in the book of life, written, he was cast into the lake of fire.