Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
And thou, son of man, thus says the lord Jehovah to the land of Israel: An end. The end has come upon the four corners of the land.
Now the end is upon thee, and I will send my anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways. And I will bring upon thee all thine abominations.
And my eye shall not spare thee, nor will I have pity. But I will bring thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee. And ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: An evil, an only evil, behold, it comes.
An end has come. The end has come. It awakens against thee. Behold, it comes.
Thy doom has come to thee, O inhabitant of the land. The time has come. The day is near, tumult, and not joyful shouting, upon the mountains.
Now I will shortly pour out my wrath upon thee, and accomplish my anger against thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways. And I will bring upon thee all thine abominations.
And my eye shall not spare, nor will I have pity. I will bring upon thee according to thy ways. And thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee. And ye shall know that I, Jehovah, do smite.
Behold, the day, behold, it comes. Thy doom has gone forth. The rod has blossomed; pride has budded.
Violence has risen up into a rod of wickedness. None of them shall remain, nor of their multitude, nor of their wealth. Neither shall there be eminency among them.
The time has come; the day draws near. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn, for wrath is upon all the multitude of it.
For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they be yet alive, for the vision is concerning the whole multitude of it. None shall return, nor shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life.
They have blown the trumpet, and have made all ready, but none goes to the battle, for my wrath is upon all the multitude of it.
The sword is outside, and the pestilence and the famine inside. He who is in the field shall die with the sword, and he who is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him.
But those of them who escape shall escape, and shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys. All of them moaning, each one in his iniquity.
All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water.
They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall cover them. And shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all their heads.
They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be as an unclean thing. Their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of Jehovah. They shall not satisfy their souls, nor fill their bowels, because it has been the stumbling block of their iniquity.
As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty, but they made the images of their abominations, and their detestable things in it. Therefore I have made it as an unclean thing to them.
And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil, and they shall profane it.
I will also turn my face from them, and they shall profane my secluded place. And robbers shall enter into it, and profane it.
Make the chain, for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence.
Therefore I will bring the worst of the nations, and they shall possess their houses. I will also make the pride of the strong to cease, and their holy places shall be profaned.
Destruction comes. And they shall seek peace, and there shall be none.
Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumor shall be upon rumor. And they shall seek a vision of the prophet, but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders.
The king shall mourn, and the ruler shall be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled. I will do to them according to their way, and according to their deserts I will judge them. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.