And again he began to teach by the sea; and a great multitude came together to him, so that he went into a ship, and sat in the sea: and the whole multitude was on the land near the sea.
And he taught them many things in parables, and said to them in his teaching:
Hear; Behold, the sower went forth to sow;
and it came to pass, as he sowed, that some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and ate it up.
Other seed fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth: and it immediately sprung up, because it had no depth of earth.
And when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away.
And other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it produced no fruit.
And other seed fell in the good ground, and produced fruit that grew up and increased, and produced, one thirty, one sixty, and one a hundred.
And he said: He that has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when he was alone, those who were about him, with the twelve, asked him the meaning of the parable.
And he said to them: To you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God; but to those who are without, all things are done in parables;
that they may surely see, and not perceive; and that they may surely hear, and not understand; lest they should turn to me, and their sins should be forgiven them.
And he said to them: Do you not understand this parable? And how then will you understand all parables?
The sower sows the word.
These are they that received seed by the wayside, where the word is sown; and when they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that was sown in their hearts.
And these are they that, in like manner, received seed in stony places: who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy:
and they have no root in themselves, but endure for a time; afterward, when affliction or persecution arises on account of the word, they immediately take offense.
And these are they that received seed among thorns; who hear the word,
and the anxieties of this age, and the deceitfulness of riches, and desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.
And these are they that received seed on the good ground; who hear the word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, one thirty, and one sixty, and one a hundred.
And he said to them: Is a lamp brought in that it may be put under the measure, or under the divan? Is it not brought that it may be put on the lamp-stand?
For there is nothing hid that shall not be made known; nor has any thing been concealed, but that it may come into open view.
If any one has ears to hear, let him hear.
And he said to them: Take heed how you hear; with what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you; and to you that hear, more shall be given;
for whoever has, to him shall be given; and whoever has not, even that which he has shall be taken from him.
And he said: So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should sow seed in the ground,
and should sleep and rise, night and day, and the seed should spring up and grow, he knows not how.
For the earth, of its own accord, produces fruit, first the blade; then the ear, then the full grain in the ear.
But when the fruit is ripe, immediately he sends forth the sickle, because the harvest is ready.
And he said: To what shall we liken the kingdom of God? Or, by what similitude shall we illustrate it?
It is like a grain of mustard, which, when it is sown in the ground, is less than all seeds that are in the ground;
yet, when it is sown, it grows up, and becomes larger than all garden-plants, and sends out great branches, so that the birds of the air can roost under its shadow.
And with many such parables he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear.
But without a parable he did not speak to them; but when alone, he explained all things to his disciples.
And on the same day, when it was evening, he said to them: Let us go over to the opposite side.
And when they had sent the multitude away, they took him with them, as he was in the ship; and there were other little ships with him.
And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves dashed into the ship, so that it was now full.
And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on the pillow. And they awoke him, and said to him: Teacher, carest thou not that we perish?
And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea: Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.
And he said to them: Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith?
And they were greatly afraid, and said one to another: Who, then, is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?