And it happened in the days of Ahasuerus (this is the Ahasuerus who reigned from India even to Ethiopia, over a hundred and twenty-seven provinces).
in those days, when king Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom in Shushan the palace,
in the third year of his reign, he made a feast to all his princes and his servants. The power of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces, were before him.
And he showed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the honor of his excellent majesty many days, a hundred and eighty days.
And when these days had expired, the king made a feast to all the people who were present in Shushan the palace, both to great and small, for seven days in the court of the garden of the king's palace.
White, green, and blue hangings were fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble. The beds were of gold and silver, on a pavement of red and white, and pearl, and black marble.
And they gave them drink in vessels of gold, the vessels being different from one another, and royal wine in abundance, according to the hand of the king.
And the drinking was according to the law, no one compelling, for so the king had commanded every chief of his house that they should do according to every man's pleasure.
Also Vashti the queen made a feast for the women in the royal house which belonged to king Ahasuerus.
On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of Ahasuerus the king,
to bring Vashti the queen before the king with the royal crown, in order to show the people and the princes her beauty, for she was beautiful to look on.
But the queen Vashti refused to come at the king's command by his eunuchs. And the king was very angry, and his anger burned within him.
And the king said to the wise men who knew the times (for so was the king's manner toward all who knew law and judgment;
and the next to him were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media who saw the king's face, who sat first in the kingdom),
What shall we do with queen Vashti according to law, because she has not done the command of the king Ahasuerus by the eunuchs?
And Memucan answered before the king and princes, Vashti the queen has not only done wrong to the king, but also to all the princes, and to all the people who are in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus.
For the matter of the queen shall go out to all women, so that their husbands shall be despised in their eyes, and it shall be reported that king Ahasuerus commanded to bring Vashti the queen in before him, but she did not come.
And this day the princesses of Persia and Media shall say the same to all the king's princes who have heard of the deed of the queen. And there will be contempt and strife.
If it please the king, let there be a royal command from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it may not be changed, that Vashti come no more before king Ahasuerus. And let the king give her royal state to another who is better than she is.
And when the king's decree which he shall make shall be published throughout all his empire (for it is great), all the wives shall give their husbands honor, both the great and small.
And the saying pleased the king and the princes. And the king did according to the word of Memucan.
For he sent letters into all the king's provinces, into every province according to the writing of it, and to every people in their language, so that every man should bear rule in his own house, and published according to the language of every people.