Now faith is the foundation of hoping, the evidence of events not being seen.
For by this the ancients were well reported.
By faith we understand the ages to have been prepared by the word of God. For the things that are seen do not come to be from that which is visible.
By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain, because of which he was reported to be righteous, God testifying about his gifts, and through it, he who died still speaks.
By faith Enoch was transferred to not see death, and he was not found, because God transferred him. For before his removal he was reported to be pleasing to God.
And apart from faith it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and becomes a rewarder of those who search for him.
By faith Noah, being divinely warned about things not yet seen, moved with awe, prepared an ark for the salvation of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became an heir of righteousness according to faith.
By faith Abraham, when called, obeyed to go out to the place that he was going to take for an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going.
By faith he lived alien in the land of promise as a foreigner, having dwelt in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise.
For he anticipated the city that has the foundations, whose builder and architect is God.
By faith even Sarah herself received power for conception of seed, and she gave birth beyond the time of age, because she considered him faithful who promised.
And therefore from one man, and these things having become deadened, were begotten as the stars of the heaven for multitude, and as the sand of the seashore, countless.
All these died in faith, not having taken the promises, but who saw and greeted them from afar, and who confessed that they were foreigners and sojourners on the earth.
For those who say such things show that they are seeking a fatherland.
And if indeed they remembered that from which they came out, they would have had time to return.
But now they aspire for a superior one, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city.
By faith Abraham, being tested, offered Isaac. And he who received the promises offered his only begotten son,
about whom it was said, The seed by thee will be called in Isaac.
Having reckoned that God is able to raise up even from the dead, from where also, in a figure, he did receive him back.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau about things coming.
By faith Jacob, while dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and bowed in worship upon the top of his staff.
By faith Joseph, while perishing, remembered about the exodus of the sons of Israel, and commanded about his bones.
By faith Moses, after being born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child well-formed, and they were not afraid of the king's edict.
By faith Moses, having become great, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
having chosen rather to be mistreated with the people of God, than to have the pleasure of sin temporarily.
Having esteemed the vilification of the Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he focused toward the recompense of reward.
By faith he forsook Egypt, not having feared the wrath of the king, for he persevered as seeing the invisible.
By faith he performed the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, so that he who was destroying the firstborn would not touch them.
By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land, of which the Egyptians, having taken an attempt, were drowned.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, having been encircled for seven days.
By faith Rahab the harlot was not destroyed with those who were disobedient, having received the spies with peace.
And what shall I say further? For the time would fail me telling about Gideon, also Barak and Samson and Jephthah, also of David and Samuel and the prophets,
who, through faith, conquered kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, closed the mouths of lions,
quenched the force of fire, escaped the jaw of the sword. Out of weakness were made strong, became mighty in war, bowed down armies of aliens.
Women took hold of their dead from a resurrection, but others were tortured, not having accepted deliverance, so that they might experience a superior resurrection.
And others took a trial of mockings and scourgings, and moreover of bonds and imprisonment.
They were stoned, they were sawed apart, they were tempted, they died in murder by sword. They wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, being destitute, restricted, tormented
(of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in deserts and mountains and caves, and the holes of the earth.
And all these, having been well reported through faith, did not receive the promise,
God having foreseen something superior concerning us, so that without us they would not be made fully perfect.