Now there were in Antioch, distributed through the existing assembly,—prophets and teachers: both Barnabas and Symeon who was called Niger, and Lucius the Cyrenian, Manaen also, Herod the tetrarch’s foster-brother, and Saul.
And, as they were publicly ministering unto the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said—Separate forthwith unto me, Barnabas and Saul, unto the work whereunto I have called them.
Then, fasting and praying, and laying their hands upon them, they sent them away.
They, therefore, being sent forth by the Holy Spirit, went down unto Seleucia, and, from thence, sailed away unto Cyprus;
And, coming to be in Salamis, they declared the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews;—and they had, John also, as an attendant.
And, passing through the whole island, as far as Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician, a false-prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-jesus;
Who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. The same, calling for Barnabas and Saul, sought to hear the word of God.
But Elymas the magician,—for so, when translated, is his name,—withstood them; seeking to turn aside the proconsul from the faith.
But Saul, who is also Paul, filled with Holy Spirit, looking steadfastly at him,
Said—O full of all guile, and all recklessness! Son of an adversary! Enemy of all righteousness!—Wilt thou not cease to pervert the straight ways of the Lord?
Now, therefore, lo! the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun, until a fitting time. And, instantly, there fell upon him a mist and darkness; and, going about, he was seeking such as might lead him by the hand.
Then, the proconsul, seeing what had happened, believed, being amazed at the teaching of the Lord.
And, setting sail from Paphos, Paul’s company came into Perga of Pamphylia; but, John, withdrawing from them, returned unto Jerusalem.
They, however, passing through from Perga, arrived at Antioch of Pisidia; and, going into the synagogue on the sabbath-day, sat down.
And, after the reading of the law and the prophets, the synagogue-rulers sent unto them, saying—Brethren! if there is in you a word of exhortation unto the people, say on.
And Paul, standing up, and making a sign with his hand, said—Ye men of Israel! and such as revere God! hearken:—
The God of this people Israel, chose our fathers, and, the people, he exalted, by their sojourn in the land of Egypt,—and, with a high arm, brought he them out of it;
And, for the time of about forty years, bare with their manners in the desert;
And, overthrowing seven nations in the land of Canaan, gave them their land as an inheritance—about four hundred and fifty years.
And, after these things, he gave them judges, until Samuel the prophet.
And, from that time, they asked for themselves a king, and God gave them Saul, son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, during forty years;
And, setting him aside, raised up, David, unto them for king,—of whom he also said, bearing witness—I have found David, the son of Jesse,—[a man] according to my heart, who will do all my will.
From this man’s seed, hath God, according to promise, brought unto Israel, a saviour—Jesus:
John, beforehand proclaiming, before the face of his coming in, an immersion of repentance, unto all the people of Israel.
And, as John was fulfilling his course, he was saying—Whom are ye supposing that I am? I, am not he! But lo! there cometh, after me, one of whom I am not worthy, the sandals of his feet, to loosen.
Brethren! sons of the race of Abraham, and those who among you revere God,—unto you, hath this word of salvation been sent forth.
For, they who were dwelling in Jerusalem, and their rulers, not recognising him, have, by judging him, fulfilled, the very voices of the prophets which every sabbath are being read;
And, though no single cause of death they found, yet claimed they of Pilate that he should be slain.
And, when they had finished all those things which, concerning him, had been written, taking him down from the tree, they put him in a tomb.
But, God, raised him from among the dead:
Who appeared, during many days, unto them who had come up with him from Galilee unto Jerusalem; who, indeed, [now] are his witnesses unto the people.
We, therefore, unto you, bring the good news, as to the promise which, unto our fathers, was made,—
That God hath fulfilled, the same, for our children, by raising up Jesus: as also, in the second psalm, it is written—My son, art, thou: I, this day, have begotten thee.
And, in that he raised him from among the dead, no more destined to return unto corruption, on this wise hath he spoken—I will give unto you the faithful lovingkindnesses of David.
Wherefore also, in a different [place], he saith—Thou wilt not give thy man of lovingkindness to see corruption.
For, David, indeed, unto his own generation having done service, by the counsel of God, fell asleep, and was added unto fathers, and saw corruption;
But, he whom God hath raised, did not see corruption.
Be it known unto you, therefore, brethren,—that, through this man, unto you, remission of sins is declared;
And, from all things from which ye could not, by the law of Moses, be justified, by this man, everyone that believeth, is justified.
Be taking heed, therefore, lest that come upon you which hath been spoken in the prophets—
See, ye despisers, and marvel, and disappear: in that, a work, am, I, working in your days,—a work, which in nowise will ye believe, though one relate it in full unto you.
And, as they were going out, they kept on beseeching that, on the ensuing sabbath, might be spoken unto them these things.
And, when the congregation was broken up, there followed many of the Jews, and of the devout proselytes, with Paul and Barnabas; who, indeed, in speaking unto them, went on persuading them to abide in the favour of God.
And, on the coming sabbath, almost all the city, was gathered together, to hear the word of God.
But, the Jews, seeing, the multitudes, were filled with jealousy,—and began speaking against the things which, by Paul, were being spoken, defaming them.
And Paul and Barnabas, speaking boldly, said—Unto you, was it necessary, that the word of God should first be spoken: seeing ye are thrusting it from you, and, unworthy, are judging yourselves of the age-abiding life, lo! we turn unto the nations;
For so hath the Lord commanded us—I have set thee for a light of nations, that thou mayest be for salvation unto the end of the earth.
And they of the nations, hearing [this], began to rejoice, and to be glorifying God, and they believed—as many as had become disposed for life age-abiding.
And the word of the Lord went on to be carried through the whole country.
But, the Jews, urged on the devout women of the higher class, and the chief men of the city, and roused up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas,—and thrust them out from their bounds.
But they, shaking off the dust of their feet against them, came into Iconium.
And, the disciples, were filled with joy, and with Holy Spirit.