And when all this was finished, all Israel who were found went out to the cities of Judah and smashed the standing pillars, and cut down the Asherahs, and broke down the high places and the altars out of all Judah, and Benjamin, and in Ephraim, and Manasseh, even to the end. And all the sons of Israel returned, each to his possession, to their cities.
And Hezekiah made stand the courses of the priests and of the Levites, by their divisions, each according to his service, of the priests and of the Levites, for burnt offerings, and for peace offerings, to serve and to give thanks, and to give praise in the gates of the camps of Jehovah.
And the king's portion from his substance was for burnt offerings, for burnt offerings of the morning and the evening; and the burnt offerings of the sabbaths, and of the new moons, and of the appointed seasons, as it was written in the law of Jehovah.
And he commanded the people, those who lived in Jerusalem, to give the portion of the priests and of the Levites, in order that they might be made strong in the law of Jehovah.
And as the word spread, the sons of Israel brought abundantly the firstfruits of grain, new wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the produce of the field, and the tithe of all; they brought very much.
And the sons of Israel and Judah, those living in the cities of Judah, also they tithed of the herd and the flock, even a tithe of the holy things that were sanctified to Jehovah their God, were brought in. And they piled heaps of heaps.
They began to lay the foundation of the heaps in the third month, and in the seventh month they finished.
And Hezekiah and the leaders came in and saw the heaps, and blessed Jehovah and His people Israel.
And Hezekiah asked the priests and the Levites about the heaps.
And Azariah the chief priest, of the house of Zadok, spoke to him and said, From the beginning of the bringing of the heave offering to the house of Jehovah, it was eaten, and it satisfied, and abundance was left; for Jehovah has blessed His people, and this abundance is left.
And Hezekiah ordered them to build rooms in the house of Jehovah; and they prepared,
and they brought in the heave offering, and the tithes, and the holy things, faithfully. And over them was a leader, the Levite Cononiah, and his second brother, Shimei;
and Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, were overseers under the hand of Cononiah and his brother Shimei, by the appointment of Hezekiah the king, and Azariah the ruler of the house of God.
And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the gatekeeper at the east, was over the freewill offerings of God, to distribute the heave offerings of Jehovah, and the most holy things.
And by his hand, Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, faithfully to give to their brothers by divisions, as to the great, so to the small;
apart from their genealogy, to males from a son of three years and upward, to everyone who had gone into the house of Jehovah, the proper portion of a day in its day, for their service in their duties, according to their divisions;
and enrolled genealogically the priests by the house of their fathers, and of the Levites from a son of twenty years and upward, and their duties, and their divisions;
and the enrollment by genealogy with all their infants, their wives, and their sons and their daughters, to all the assembly, for in their faithfulness they sanctified themselves in holiness.
And to the sons of Aaron, the priests, in the fields of the suburbs of their cities in every separate city, were men who were called by name to give portions to every male among the priests, and to all enrolled genealogically among the Levites.
And Hezekiah did this in all Judah, and did the good and the right and true before Jehovah his God.
And in every work that he began for the service of the house of God, and in the Law, and in the commandment, to seek his God with all his heart, he worked and prospered.