LET not your hearts be troubled: trust in God, and trust in me.
In my Father’s house are many mansions: and if not, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare you a place, I will come again, and receive you to myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.
And whither I am going ye know, and the way ye know.
Thomas saith to him, We know not whither thou art going; and how can we know the way?
Jesus saith to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life: no man cometh to the Father, but by me.
If ye had known me, ye would have known my Father: and from henceforth ye know him and have seen him.
Philip saith to him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us.
Jesus saith to him, Am I all this while with you, and hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou, Shew us the Father?
Dost thou not believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me? the words which I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father, who dwelleth in me, he performeth these works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: and at least believe me on account of the works themselves.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works which I do shall he do also; yea, and greater than these shall he do; because I go to the Father.
And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If ye ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
If ye love me, keep my commandments.
And I will ask the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;
the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; because he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.
I will not leave you orphans: I am coming to you.
Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also.
In that day ye shall know that I am in the Father, and ye in me, and I in you.
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he is the person who loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
Then Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself to us, and not unto the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, If any man love me, he will observe my word: and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our abode with him.
He that loveth me not, doth not observe my sayings: and the word which ye are hearing is not mine, but of him that sent me.
These things have I spoken to you, while I continue among you.
But the Comforter, the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, which I have spoken to you.
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I to you. Let not your heart be agitated, nor shrink back through fear.
Ye have heard that I told you, I am going away, though I am coming again to you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I am going to the Father: because my Father is greater than I.
And now I have informed you before it comes to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe.
I shall not speak many things more with you: for the ruler of this world is coming, though in me he hath no part.
But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father hath given me commandment, so I do. Arise, let us go hence.