When Ephraim, spake, there was terror, exalted was, he, in Israel,—but, when he became guilty with Baal, then he died.
Now, therefore they go on to sin, and have made them a Molten Thing out of their silver, after the notion of idols, the workmanship of craftsmen, all of it! Of them, are they saying—Ye sacrificers of men! The Great Calf, shall ye surely kiss!
Therefore, shall they become like the morning cloud, and like the dew early departing,—like chaff storm-driven out of the threshing-floor, and like smoke out of a chimney.
Yet, I, Yahweh, have been thy God from the land of Egypt,—and, god beside me, shalt thou not acknowledge, for, saviour, is there none besides me.
I, tended thee in the desert,—in a land parched with drought:
Whenever they were pastured, then were they satisfied, They were satisfied, and their heart, was lifted up,—because of this, they forgat me.
Therefore am I become to them as a lion,—As a leopard by the way, do I watch.
I will fall upon them as a bear bereaved, and will read asunder the enclosure of their heart,—that I may devour them there, like a lioness, the wild beast of the field, shall tear them in pieces.
It hath utterly destroyed thee, O Israel, for it was against me, as thy helper!
Where is thy king, then, that he may save thee throughout all thy cities? and thy judges, concerning whom thou saidst, Oh give me a king and rulers?
I might give thee a king in mine anger, and take him away in my wrath.
Bound up, is the iniquity of Ephraim, stored away, his sin.
The pangs of a woman in labour, shall overtake him,—he, is a son, not wise, for, now, he cannot stand still, when children are about to be born.
Out of the hand of hades, will I ransom them, out of death, will I redeem them,—Where is thy pestilence, O death? Where thy plague, O hades? Repentance, shall be hid from mine eyes.
Though, he, among brethren, be fruitful, there shall come in an east wind, the blast of Yahweh out of the desert coming up, that his spring, may dry up, and his fountain, be exhausted, he, will rob the treasure-house of all the vessels of delight.
Samaria, shall be held guilty, for she hath rebelled against her God, By the sword, shall they fall, their infants, shall be dashed to the ground, and, his women with child, shall be ripped up.