The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death.
Jehovah will not allow the soul of a righteous man to famish, but he thrusts away the desire of the wicked.
He who works with a slack hand becomes poor, but the hand of the diligent makes rich.
He who gathers in summer is a wise son. He who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame.
Blessings are upon the head of a righteous man, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
The memory of a righteous man is blessed, but the name of the wicked shall rot.
The wise in heart will receive commandments, but a prating fool shall fall.
He who walks uprightly walks securely, but he who perverts his ways shall be known.
He who winks with the eye causes sorrow. And a prating fool shall fall.
The mouth of a righteous man is a fountain of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all transgressions.
In the lips of him who has discernment wisdom is found, but a rod is for the back of him who is void of understanding.
Wise men lay up knowledge, but the mouth of a foolish man is a present destruction.
The rich man's wealth is his strong city. The destruction of the poor is their poverty.
The labor of a righteous man produces life. The fruit of a wicked man is to sin.
He is in the way of life who heeds correction, but he who forsakes reproof errs.
He who hides hatred is of lying lips. And he who utters a slander is a fool.
Transgression is not lacking in the multitude of words, but he who refrains his lips does wisely.
The tongue of a righteous man is choice silver. The heart of the wicked is little worth.
The lips of a righteous man feeds many, but the foolish die for lack of understanding.
The blessing of Jehovah, it makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it.
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief, and so is wisdom to a man of understanding.
The fear of a wicked man shall come upon him. And the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
When the whirlwind passes, the wicked man is no more, but the righteous man is an everlasting foundation.
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
The fear of Jehovah prolongs days, but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
The hope of the righteous is gladness, but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.
The way of Jehovah is a stronghold to the upright, but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
A righteous man shall never be removed, but the wicked shall not dwell in the land.
The mouth of a righteous man brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue shall be cut off.
The lips of a righteous man knows what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked is perverseness.