And Solomon, son of David, strengthened himself over his kingdom,—and, Yahweh, his God, was with him, and made him surpassingly great.
And Solomon gave word to all Israel—to the rulers of thousands, and hundreds, and to the judges, and to all the leaders of all Israel, ancestral chiefs;
and Solomon, and all the convocation with him, went to the high place that was in Gibeon,—for, there, was the tent of meeting of God, which Moses the servant of Yahweh made in the desert.
Howbeit, the ark of God, had David brought up from Kiriath-jearim, into the place that David had prepared for it,—for he had pitched for it a tent, in Jerusalem.
Also, the altar of bronze that Bezalel son of Uri son of Hur had made, was there before the habitation of Yahweh,—so Solomon and the convocation sought it.
And Solomon went up thither, unto the altar of bronze before Yahweh, which belonged to the tent of meeting,—and caused to go up thereon a thousand ascending-sacrifices.
During that night, God appeared unto Solomon,—and said unto him, Ask what I shall give thee.
And Solomon said unto God, Thou thyself, didst deal with David my father in great lovingkindness,—and hast made me king in his stead.
Now, O Yahweh Elohim, let thy word with David my father be brought to pass,-for, thou, hast made me king over a people, for multitude like the dust of the earth.
Now, wisdom and knowledge, give thou unto me, that I may go out before this people, and may come in,—for who can judge this thy people, that is so great?
And God said unto Solomon, Because this was near thy heart, and thou hast not asked riches, wealth, or honour, or the life of them that hate thee, nor even, many days, hast thou asked,—but hast asked for thyself, wisdom and knowledge, that thou mayest judge my people, over whom I have made thee king,
wisdom and knowledge, are granted unto thee,—moreover, riches and wealth and honour, will I give thee, such as the kings who were before thee did not possess, neither shall they who come after thee possess the like.
And Solomon came from the high place that was in Gibeon unto Jerusalem, from before the tent of meeting,—and reigned over Israel.
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen, and came to have a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen,—and he settled them in chariot cities, and with the king, in Jerusalem.
And the king made silver and gold in Jerusalem, like stones, and, cedars, made he like the sycomores that are in the lowland, for abundance.
And the horses which Solomon had were, an export, out of Egypt,—and a, company of royal merchants, used to fetch a drove, at a price;
and they built and brought forth out of Egypt a chariot, for six hundred [shekels] of silver, and a horse, for a hundred and fifty,-and, so, for all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Syria, by their means, brought they them forth.