The Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father, But a foolish son is the grief of his mother.
Treasures of wickedness do not profit; But righteousness delivereth from death.
The LORD will not suffer the righteous to famish; But he disappointeth the craving of the wicked.
He that worketh with a slack hand becometh poor; But the hand of the diligent maketh rich.
He that gathereth in summer is a wise son; But he that sleepeth in harvest is a son causing shame.
Blessings are upon the head of the just; But the mouth of the wicked concealeth violence.
The memory of the righteous man shall be blessed; But the name of the wicked shall rot.
He who is wise in heart receiveth precepts; But the foolish talker falleth headlong.
He that walketh uprightly walketh securely; But he that perverteth his ways shall be punished.
He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow; And a foolish talker falleth headlong.
The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life; But the mouth of the wicked concealeth violence.
Hatred stirreth up strife; But love covereth all offences.
Upon the lips of a man of understanding wisdom is found; But a rod is for the back of him that lacketh understanding.
Wise men treasure up knowledge; But the mouth of the foolish is destruction close at hand.
The rich man’s wealth is his strong city; The destruction of the poor is their poverty.
The earnings of the righteous minister to life; The revenues of the wicked, to sin.
He that keepeth instruction is in the path of life; But he that refuseth reproof goeth astray.
He that hideth hatred hath lying lips; And he that uttereth slander is a fool.
In the multitude of words there wanteth not offence; But he who restraineth his lips is wise.
The tongue of the righteous is as choice silver; The understanding of the wicked is of little worth.
The lips of the righteous feed many; But fools die through want of wisdom.
It is the blessing of the LORD that maketh rich, And he addeth no sorrow with it.
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief; But a man of understanding hath wisdom.
The fear of the wicked shall come upon him; But the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
When the whirlwind passeth by, the wicked is no more; But the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, So is the sluggard to them that send him.
The fear of the LORD prolongeth life; But the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: But the expectation of the wicked shall come to nothing.
The way of the LORD is a stronghold for the upright, But destruction for those who do iniquity.
The righteous shall never be moved; But the wicked shall not dwell in the land.
The mouth of the righteous man yieldeth wisdom; But the perverse tongue shall be cut off.
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable; But the mouth of the wicked what is perverse.