Therefore, thou shalt love the LORD thy God and keep his charge and his statutes and his rights and his commandments, always.
And know ye this day; for [I speak] not with your children who have not known and who have not seen the chastisement of the LORD your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his outstretched arm,
and his miracles and his acts, which he did in the midst of Egypt unto Pharaoh, the king of Egypt and unto all his land,
and what he did unto the army of Egypt, unto their horses and to their chariots, how he made the water of the Red sea to overflow them as they pursued after you and [how] the LORD has destroyed them unto this day,
and what he did with you in the wilderness until ye came into this place,
and what he did unto Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up and their households and their tents and all the substance that [was] in their possession in the midst of all Israel;
but your eyes have seen all the great acts of the LORD which he did.
Keep, therefore, all the commandments which I command you this day that ye may be strong and enter in and inherit the land, into which ye go to inherit it
and that ye may prolong [your] days in the land, which the LORD swore unto your fathers to give unto them and to their seed, a land that flows with milk and honey.
For the land, into which thou goest to inherit it, is not as the land of Egypt, from which ye came out, where thou didst sow thy seed and water [it] with thy foot, as a garden of herbs.
The land, into which ye go to inherit it, is a land of mountains and valleys [and] drinks water of the rain of heaven,
a land which the LORD thy God procures; the eyes of the LORD thy God [are] always upon it, from the beginning of the year even unto the end of the year.
And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently unto my commandments which I command you this day: to love the LORD your God and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul
that I will give [you] the rain of your land in its due season, the early rain and the latter rain, and thou shalt gather in thy grain and thy wine and thine oil.
And I will send grass in thy fields for thy beasts, and thou shalt eat and be full.
Keep yourselves, therefore, that your heart not be deceived and ye turn aside and serve other gods and worship them;
and [then] the LORD'S wrath be kindled against you and he shut up the heavens, that there be no rain and that the land yield not her fruit, and [lest] ye perish quickly from off the good land which the LORD gives you.
Therefore, ye shall lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul and bind them for a sign upon your hand that they may be as frontlets between your eyes.
And ye shall teach them to your children that ye may think of them sitting in thy house and walking by the way, lying down in bed, and rising up.
And thou shalt write them upon the door posts of thine house and upon thy gates
that your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, upon the land which the LORD swore unto your fathers to give them, as the days of the heavens upon the earth.
For if ye shall diligently keep all these commandments which I command you, to do them, loving the LORD your God [and] walking in all his ways, to cleave unto him,
then the LORD will drive out all these Gentiles from before you, and ye shall possess nations greater and mightier than yourselves.
Every place upon which the soles of your feet shall tread shall be yours, from the wilderness and Lebanon; from the river, the river Euphrates, even unto the western sea shall be your border.
No one shall be able to stand before you; [for] the LORD your God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon all the land that ye shall tread upon, as he has said unto you.
Behold, I set before you this day the blessing and the curse:
The blessing if ye hear the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you this day,
and the curse if ye will not hear the commandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside out of the way which I command you this day, to go after other gods, which ye have not known.
And it shall come to pass when the LORD thy God has brought thee in unto the land where thou goest to inherit it that thou shalt put the blessing upon mount Gerizim and the curse upon mount Ebal,
which are on the other side of the Jordan, by the way of the west, in the land of the Canaanite, who dwells in the plain over against Gilgal, beside the plains of Moreh.
For ye shall pass the Jordan to go in to inherit the land which the LORD your God gives you, and ye shall possess it and dwell therein.
Keep yourselves, therefore, to do all the statutes and rights which I set before you this day.: