And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in them; and they put incense on it and brought strange fire before Jehovah, which He had not commanded them.
And fire went out from before Jehovah and consumed them; and they died before Jehovah.
And Moses said to Aaron, It is that which Jehovah has spoken, saying, I will be sanctified by those drawing near to Me; and I will be honored before all the people. And Aaron was silent.
And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, sons of Uzziel, Aaron's uncle, and said to them, Come near, carry your brothers from the front of the sanctuary to the outside of the camp.
And they came near and carried them in their coats to the outside of the camp, as Moses had commanded.
And Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar, and to Ithamar, his sons, You shall not uncover your heads and you shall not tear your garments, that you may not die, and He be angry on all the congregation. As to your brothers, the whole house of Israel, they shall mourn the burning which Jehovah has kindled.
And you shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation lest you die. For the anointing oil of Jehovah is on you. And they did according to the word of Moses.
And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, saying,
You shall not drink wine and strong drink, you nor your sons with you, as you go into the tabernacle of the congregation, and you shall not die; a never ending statute throughout your generations;
and to make a distinction between the holy and profane, and between the unclean and the clean;
and to teach the sons of Israel all the statutes which Jehovah has spoken to them by the hand of Moses.
And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar, and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, Take the food offering that remains from the fire offerings of Jehovah, and eat it unleavened near the altar, for it is most holy.
And you shall eat it in the holy place, for it is your portion, and the portion of your sons, from the fire offerings of Jehovah; for so I have been commanded.
And the breast of the wave offering, and the leg of the heave offering, you shall eat in a clean place, you and your sons, and your daughters with you. For they have been given for your portion and the portion of your sons out of the sacrifices of peace offerings of the sons of Israel.
The leg of the heave offering, and the breast of the wave offering, besides fire offerings of the fat, they shall bring in to wave a wave offering before Jehovah; and it shall be to you, and to your sons with you, a never ending statute, as Jehovah has commanded.
And Moses sought carefully for the goat of the sin offering; and, behold, it had been burned! And he was angry against Eleazar and against Ithamar, Aaron's remaining sons, saying,
Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the holy place, for it is most holy, and He has given it to you to take away the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before Jehovah?
Behold, its blood has not been brought into the holy place inside. You should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I have commanded.
And Aaron said to Moses, Behold, today they have brought their sin offering and their burnt offering before Jehovah; and such things have happened to me. And if I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been accepted in the sight of Jehovah?
And when Moses heard, then it was good in his eyes.