And Abraham brake up from thence, towards the land of the South, and fixed his dwelling between Kadesh and Shur, so he sojourned in Gerar.
And Abraham said of Sarah his wife: My, sister, is she,—So Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
Then God went in unto Abimelech, in a dream of the night,—and said to him, Behold thee dead! because of the woman whom thou hast taken, seeing that, she, is a married woman.
Now, Abimelech, had not come near unto her,—so he said, O My Lord! a nation even a righteous one, wilt thou slay?
Had not, he himself, said to me, My sister, is she? and even she herself, said, My brother, is he? In the integrity of my heart and in the pureness of my hand, have I done this!
And God said unto him in a dream, I, also, knew, that in the integrity of thy heart, thou didst this, so then, even I myself, withheld thee from sinning against me, for this reason, have I not suffered thee to touch her.
Now, therefore restore the man’s wife, for a prophet, is he, that he may pray for thee and live thou,—But if thou art not going to restore her, know, that thou shalt die, thou—and all that are thine.
So Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and spake all these words in their ears, and the men feared greatly.
Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, What hast thou done to us? and wherein had I sinned against thee, that thou shouldst have brought in over me and over my kingdom, a sin so great? Deeds, which should not be done, hast thou done with me.
And Abimelech said unto Abraham,—What hadst thou seen, that thou shouldst have done this thing?
And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely there is no fear of God, in this place,—therefore will they slay me for the sake of my wife.
Moreover also, in truth, my sister daughter of my father, she is, only not daughter of my mother,—so she became my wife.
And so it came to pass when the Gods caused me to wander from my father’s house, that I said to her, This, is thy lovingkindness, wherewith thou shalt deal with me,—Into whatsoever place we enter, say of me My brother, is he.
Then took Abimelech sheep and oxen and men—servants and maid-servants, and gave to Abraham,—and restored to him Sarah his wife.
And Abimelech, said, Lo! my land is before thee,—wherever it may seem good in thine eyes, dwell.
And to Sarah, he said, Lo! I have given a thousand of silver unto thy brother: Lo! that is for thee as a covering of eyes, to all who are with thee,—And so in every way, hath right been done.
And Abraham prayed unto God,—and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maid-servants, so that they bare children,
For Yahweh, had restrained from bearing, every female of the house of Abimelech,—because of Sarah, wife of Abraham.