And Jehovah spoke to Moses at mount Sinai, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When ye come into the land which I give you, then shall the land keep a sabbath to Jehovah.
Six years thou shall sow thy field, and six years thou shall prune thy vineyard, and gather in the fruits of it,
but in the seventh year shall be a sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a sabbath to Jehovah. Thou shall neither sow thy field, nor prune thy vineyard.
That which grows of itself of thy harvest thou shall not reap, and the grapes of thy undressed vine thou shall not gather. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land.
And the sabbath of the land shall be for food for you: for thee, and for thy servant and for thy maid, and for thy hired servant and for thy stranger, who sojourns with thee.
And for thy cattle, and for the beasts that are in thy land, all the increase of it shall be for food.
And thou shall number seven sabbaths of years to thee, seven times seven years, and there shall be to thee the days of seven sabbaths of years, even forty-nine years.
Then thou shall send abroad the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month. In the day of atonement ye shall send abroad the trumpet throughout all your land.
And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all the inhabitants of it. It shall be a jubilee to you, and ye shall return every man to his possession, and ye shall return every man to his family.
That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee to you. Ye shall not sow, neither reap that which grows of itself in it, nor gather in it of the undressed vines.
For it is a jubilee; it shall be holy to you. Ye shall eat the increase of it out of the field.
In this year of jubilee ye shall return every man to his possession.
And if thou sell anything to thy neighbor, or buy of thy neighbor's hand, ye shall not wrong each other.
According to the number of years after the jubilee thou shall buy of thy neighbor, and according to the number of years of the crops he shall sell to thee.
According to the multitude of the years thou shall increase the price of it, and according to the fewness of the years thou shall diminish the price of it, for the number of the crops he sells to thee.
And ye shall not wrong each other, but thou shall fear thy God, for I am Jehovah your God.
Therefore ye shall do my statutes, and keep my ordinances and do them, and ye shall dwell in the land in safety.
And the land shall yield its fruit, and ye shall eat your fill, and dwell in safety in it.
And if ye shall say, What shall we eat the seventh year? Behold, we shall not sow, nor gather in our increase,
then I will command my blessing upon you in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth fruit for the three years.
And ye shall sow the eighth year, and eat of the fruits, the old storage, until the ninth year. Until its fruits come in, ye shall eat the old storage.
And the land shall not be sold in perpetuity, for the land is mine. For ye are strangers and sojourners with me.
And in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a redemption for the land.
If thy brother becomes poor, and sells some of his possession, then his kinsman who is next to him shall come, and shall redeem that which his brother has sold.
And if a man has no one to redeem it, and he becomes rich and finds sufficient to redeem it,
then let him reckon the years of the sale of it, and restore the excess to the man to whom he sold it, and he shall return to his possession.
But if he is not able to get it back for himself, then that which he has sold shall remain in the hand of him who has bought it until the year of jubilee. And in the jubilee it shall go out, and he shall return to his possession.
And if a man sells a dwelling-house in a walled city, then he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold. For a full year he shall have the right of redemption.
And if it be not redeemed within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall be made sure in perpetuity to him who bought it, throughout his generations. It shall not go out in the jubilee.
But the houses of the villages which have no wall round about them shall be reckoned with the fields of the country. They may be redeemed, and they shall go out in the jubilee.
Nevertheless the cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities of their possession, the Levites may redeem at any time.
And if a man purchases from the Levites, then the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, shall go out in the jubilee. For the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the sons of Israel.
But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold, for it is their perpetual possession.
And if thy brother becomes poor, and his hand fails with thee, then thou shall uphold him; he shall live with thee as a stranger and a sojourner.
Take thou no interest from him or increase, but fear thy God, that thy brother may live with thee.
Thou shall not give him thy money upon interest, nor give him thy food for profit.
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God.
And if thy brother becomes poor with thee, and sells himself to thee, thou shall not impose upon him servile labor.
He shall be with thee as a hired servant, and as a sojourner. He shall serve with thee to the year of jubilee.
Then he shall go out from thee, he and his sons with him, and shall return to his own family. And he shall return to the possession of his fathers.
For they are my servants, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt. They shall not be sold as bondmen.
Thou shall not rule over him with rigor, but shall fear thy God.
And as for thy bondmen, and thy bondmaids, whom thou shall have, from the nations that are round about you, ye shall buy bondmen and bondmaids from them.
Moreover of the sons of the strangers who sojourn among you, ye shall buy from them, and from their families that are with you, which they have begotten in your land, and they shall be your possession.
And ye shall make them an inheritance for your sons after you, to hold for a possession. Ye shall take your permanent bondmen from them, but over your brothers the sons of Israel ye shall not rule, one over another, with rigor.
And if a stranger or sojourner with thee becomes rich, and thy brother becomes poor beside him, and sells himself to the stranger or sojourner with thee, or to the stock of the stranger's family,
he may be redeemed after he is sold. One of his brothers may redeem him.
Or his uncle, or his uncle's son, may redeem him. Or any who is near of kin to him of his family may redeem him. Or if he becomes rich, he may redeem himself.
And he shall reckon with him who bought him from the year that he sold himself to him to the year of jubilee. And the price of his sale shall be according to the number of years. He shall be with him according to the time of a hired servant.
If there be yet many years, according to them he shall give back the price of his redemption out of the money that he was bought for.
And if there remain but few years to the year of jubilee, then he shall reckon with him. He shall give back the price of his redemption according to his years.
He shall be with him as a servant hired year by year. He shall not rule with rigor over him in thy sight.
And if he is not redeemed by these means, then he shall go out in the year of jubilee, he, and his sons with him.
For the sons of Israel are servants to me. They are my servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt. I am Jehovah your God.