Jesus, therefore, six days before the passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus raised from the dead.
They made therefore a supper for him there, and Martha served; but Lazarus was one of those who reclined at the table with him.
Then Mary, taking a pound of ointment of pure spikenard, very costly, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment.
But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, he who was about to betray him, saith,
Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred denaries, and given to the poor?
And this he said, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and kept the purse, and bore what was put therein.
Then said Jesus, Let her alone, that she may keep it until the day of my burial.
For the poor ye have always with you, but me ye have not always.
The great multitude of the Jews therefore knew that he was there; and they came, not only on account of Jesus, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he raised from the dead.
But the priests consulted together that they might put Lazarus also to death;
because on his account many of the Jews were going away, and believing in Jesus.
On the next day, a great multitude that had come to the feast, hearing that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
took branches of palm-trees, and went forth to meet him, crying aloud, Hosanna! blessed is he who cometh in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel!
And Jesus, having found a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written,
"Fear not, daughter of Zion! lo! thy king cometh, sitting on an ass’s colt."
These things his disciples did not understand at the first; but when Jesus had been glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things to him.
The multitude therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness.
For this cause also the multitude met him, because they had heard that he had wrought, this sign.
The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Ye see that ye effect nothing; o! the world hath gone after him.
Now there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the feast.
These came therefore to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus.
Philip goeth and telleth Andrew; Andrew and Philip go and tell Jesus.
But Jesus answereth them, saying, The hour hath come that the Son of man should be glorified.
Truly, truly do I say to you, Unless a grain of wheat fall into the ground and die, itself abideth alone; but if it die, it beareth much fruit.
He that loveth his life loseth it; and he that hateth his life in this world will keep it unto everlasting life.
If any one be a servant to me, let him follow me; and where I am, there also will my servant be; if any one serve me, the Father will honor him.
Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour! But for this cause I came to this hour.
Father, glorify thy name! Then came there a voice from heaven: Yea, I have glorified it, and will glorify it again.
The multitude therefore that stood by, hearing this, said that it thundered. Others said, An angel hath spoken to him.
Jesus answered and said, This voice hath come not for my sake, but for yours.
Now is the judgment of this world; now will the prince of this world be cast out;
and I, if I be lifted up from the earth, shall draw all men to me.
This he said, signifying what kind of death he was to die.
The multitude therefore answered him, We have heard out of the Law that the Christ abideth for ever; how then dost thou say that the Son of man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of man?
Jesus therefore said to them, Yet a little while is the light among you. Walk while ye have the light, that darkness may not overtake you; and he that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.
While ye have the light, believe in the light, that ye may become sons of light. These things spoke Jesus, and went away, and hid himself from them.
But though he had wrought so many signs before them, they did not believe in him;
that what was spoken by Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, "Lord, who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?"
For this cause they could not believe, because Isaiah said again,
"He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; lest they should see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn from their ways, and I should heal them."
These things said Isaiah, because he saw his glory, and spoke of him.
Yet even of the rulers many believed in him; but on account of the Pharisees they did not acknowledge him, lest they should be put of the synagogue;
for they loved the glory that is of men more than the glory that is of God.
But Jesus cried aloud, and said, He that believeth in me, believeth not in me, but in him that sent me;
and he that beholdeth me, beholdeth him that sent me.
I have come a light into the world, that whoever believeth in me may not remain in the darkness.
And if any one hear my words, and keep them not, I do not judge him; for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.
He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him; the word that I have spoken, that will judge him in the last day.
Because I have not spoken from myself; but the Father who sent me hath himself committed to me what I should say, and what I should speak;
and I know that what he hath committed to me is everlasting life. What I speak therefore, I speak as the Father hath directed me.