To man belongeth the preparation of the heart; But the answer of the tongue is from the LORD.
All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes; But the LORD weigheth the spirit.
Commit thy doings to the LORD, And thy purposes shall be established.
The LORD hath ordained every thing for its end; Yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD; From generation to generation he shall not be unpunished.
Through kindness and truth, iniquity is expiated; And, through the fear of the LORD, men depart from evil.
When a man’s ways please the LORD, He maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Better is a little with righteousness, Than great revenues without right.
The heart of man deviseth his way, But the LORD establisheth his steps.
A divine sentence is upon the lips of a king; His mouth transgresseth not in judgment.
A just balance and scales are the appointment of the LORD; All the weights of the bag are his work.
The doing of wickedness is an abomination to kings; For by righteousness is the throne established.
Righteous lips are the delight of kings, And they love him who speaketh right things.
The wrath of a king is messengers of death; But a wise man will pacify it.
In the light of the king’s countenance is life, And his favor is a like a cloud bringing the latter rain.
How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! Yea, to get understanding is rather to be chosen than silver.
It is the highway of the upright to depart from evil; He that taketh heed to his way preserveth his life.
Pride goeth before destruction, And a haughty spirit before a fall.
Better is it to be of a humble spirit with the lowly, Than to share the spoil with the proud.
He who giveth heed to the word shall find good; And he who trusteth in the LORD, happy is he!
The wise in heart shall be called intelligent, And sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.
Understanding is a wellspring of life to him that hath it. And the chastisement of fools is their folly.
The heart of the wise man instructeth his mouth, And addeth learning to his lips.
Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, Sweet to the taste, and health to the bones.
There is a way that seemeth right to a man, But the end thereof is the way to death.
The hunger of the laborer laboreth for him; For his mouth urgeth him on.
A worthless man diggeth mischief, And on his lips there is, as it were, a burning fire.
A deceitful man stirreth up strife, And a whisperer separateth friends.
A man of violence enticeth his neighbor, And leadeth him into a way which is not good.
He who shutteth his eyes to devise fraud, He who compresseth his lips, hath accomplished mischief!
The hoary head is a crown of glory, If it be found in the way of righteousness.
He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty; And he who ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a city.
The lot is cast into the lap; But the whole decision thereof is from the LORD.