And he led me again to the door of the house. And behold, water came out from under the threshold of the house eastward. For the front of the house is east, and the water came down from under the right side of the house, at the south side of the altar.
And he led me out by the way of the north gate, and led me around the way outside to the outer gate, by the way facing the east. And behold, water was trickling out of the right side.
When the man went out eastward, and a line in his hand, he measured a thousand cubits. And he passed me through the water. The water was to the ankles.
And he measured a thousand cubits, and passed me through the water, water to the knees. And he measured a thousand, and passed me through water to the loins.
And he measured a thousand; and there was a torrent which I was not able to pass; for the water had risen, water to swim in, a torrent that could not be passed.
And he said to me, Son of man, have you seen? And he led me, and caused me to return to the bank of the torrent.
When I returned, then behold, on the edge of the torrent were very many trees, from here and from there.
And he said to me, These waters go out toward the eastern circuit, and go down into the Arabah, and go into the sea. They are brought out into the sea, and the waters shall be healed.
And it shall be that every living soul which swarms in every place, there where the two torrents go, that soul shall live. And there shall be very many fish, because these waters shall come there. And they shall be healed. And all shall live where the torrent goes.
And it will be, the fishermen shall stand on it from En-gedi even to En-eglaim, a spreading place for nets shall be there. Their fish shall be according to their kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea, very many.
Its swamps and its marshes shall not even be healed; they shall be given to salt.
And all trees for food shall go up by the torrent, on its bank on this side, and on that side. Its leaf shall not fade, nor its fruit fail. It will bear by its months, because its waters come out from the sanctuary. And its fruit shall be for food, and its leaf for healing.
So says the Lord Jehovah: This shall be the border by which you shall inherit the land according to the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two parts.
And you shall inherit it, each man like his brother, that I lifted up My hand to give to your fathers; even this land shall fall to you for an inheritance.
And this is the border of the land to the north side, from the Great Sea, the way of Hethlon, to the entrance of Zedad;
Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath; Hazer-hatticon, which is by the border of Hauran.
And the border shall be from the sea to Hazar-enan, at the border of Damascus and the north northward, even the border of Hamath. And this is the north side.
And you shall measure the east side from between Hauran, and from Damascus, and from Gilead, and the land of Israel, shall be the Jordan, from the border to the Eastern Sea. And this is the east side.
And the south side, southward from Tamar, to the waters of Meriboth-kadesh, the torrent to the Great Sea. And this is the south side southward.
And the west side is the Great Sea from the border until one is beside the entrance of Hamath. This is the west side.
And you shall divide this land for yourselves by the tribes of Israel.
And it will be, you shall make it fall by lot for an inheritance to yourselves, and to the strangers who live among you, who shall father sons among you. And they shall be to you as native-born among the sons of Israel. They shall be allotted an inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
And it shall be, in the tribe in which the stranger resides, there you shall give his inheritance, says the Lord Jehovah.