And He also said to His disciples, There was a certain rich man who had a steward. And he was accused to him, that he had wasted his goods.
And he called him and said to him, What is this I hear about you? Give an account of your stewardship, for you may no longer be steward.
And the steward said within himself, What shall I do? For my lord is taking the stewardship away from me. I cannot dig; I am ashamed to beg.
I know what I will do, so that when I am put out of the stewardship they may receive me into their houses.
So he called every one of his lord's debtors and said; to the first, How much do you owe my lord?
And he said, A hundred baths of oil. And he said to him, Take your bill and sit down quickly and write fifty.
And he said to another, And how much do you owe? And he said, A hundred cors of wheat. And he said to him, Take your bill and write eighty.
And the unjust steward's lord commended him because he had done wisely. For the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light.
And I say to you, Make friends by the mammon of unrighteousness for yourselves, so that when you fail, they may receive you into everlasting dwellings.
He who is faithful in the least is also faithful in much. And he who is unjust in the least is also unjust in much.
Therefore if you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust the true riches to you?
And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who shall give you that which is your own?
No servant can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.
And being money-lovers, all the Pharisees also heard all these things. And they derided Him.
And He said to them, You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God.
The law and the prophets were until John. Since that time the kingdom of God is proclaimed, and everyone is pressing into it.
And it is easier for the heaven and earth to pass than for one tittle of the law to fail.
Everyone putting away his wife and marrying another commits adultery; and everyone marrying her who is put away from her husband commits adultery.
There was a certain rich man who was customarily clothed in purple and fine linen and making merry in luxury every day.
And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, who was laid at his gate, full of sores
and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. But even the dogs came and licked his sores.
And it happened that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich one also died and was buried.
And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame.
But Abraham said, Son, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things. But now he is comforted and you are tormented.
And besides all this, there is a great chasm fixed between you and us; so that they desiring to pass from here to you cannot, nor can they pass over to us from there.
And he said, I beg you therefore, father, that you would send him to my father's house,
for I have five brothers, so that he may testify to them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them.
And he said, No, father Abraham, but if one should go to them from the dead, they would repent.
And he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, they will not be persuaded, even though one rose from the dead.