And I heard aloud voice, out of the sanctuary, saying unto the seven messengers—Go, and be pouring out the seven bowls of the wrath of God unto the earth.
And the first departed, and poured out his bowl unto the earth; and there came to be a baneful and painful ulcer, upon the men who had the mark of the beast, and them who were doing homage unto his image.
And, the second, poured out his bowl into the sea; and it became blood, as of a dead man, and, every living soul, died—as regardeth the things in the sea.
And, the third, poured out his bowl into the rivers, and the fountains of waters; and they became blood.
And I heard the messenger of the waters, saying—Righteous, art thou Who art, and Who wast, Who art full of lovingkindness,—in that, these things, thou hast adjudged;
Because, blood of saints and prophets, poured they out, and, blood, unto them, hast thou given to drink: Worthy, they are!
And I heard the altar, saying—Yea! Lord, God, the Almighty: True and righteous, are thy judgments!
And, the fourth, poured out his bowl upon the sun; and it was given unto it, to scorch mankind with fire;
and mankind were scorched with a great scorching heat, and they blasphemed the name of God who had authority over these plagues, and repented not to give him glory.
And, the fifth, poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast; and his kingdom became darkened, and they began to gnaw their tongues by reason of the pain,—
and they blasphemed the God of heaven, by reason of their pain, and by reason of their ulcers, and repented not of their works.
And, the sixth, poured out his bowl upon the great river: [the] Euphrates; and the water thereof, was dried up, that the way might be prepared, of the kings who were from the rising of the sun.
And I saw, out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false-prophet, three impure spirits, as frogs;
for they are spirits of demons, doing signs, which are to go forth unto the kings of the whole habitable earth, to gather them together unto the battle of the great day of God the Almighty.—
Lo! I come as a thief! Happy, he that is watching, and keeping his garments, lest, naked, he be walking, and they see his shame.—
And he gathered them together unto the place that is called, in Hebrew, Har Magedon.
And, the seventh, poured out his bowl upon the air.—And there came forth a loud voice out of the sanctuary, from the throne, saying—Accomplished!
And there came to be lightnings, and voices, and thunders; and, a great earthquake, took place,—such as had never taken place since men came to be on the earth,—such a mighty earthquake, so great;
and the great city became [divided] into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell; and, Babylon the Great, was brought into remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the wrath of his anger;
and, every island, fled, and, mountains, were not found.
And, great hail, as talents, cometh down out of heaven upon mankind; and men blasphemed God, by reason of the plague of hail,—because the plague thereof was, exceeding great.