But we that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of those who are not strong, and not to please ourselves.
Let each one of us please his neighbor in that which is good for his edification.
For the Christ did not please himself; but as it is written: The reproaches of them that reproached thee, fell on me.
For the things which were formerly written, were written for our instruction, that we, through the patience and the comfort which the scriptures give, might have hope.
Now, may the God of patience and comfort make you of the same mind one toward another, according to Christ Jesus;
that with one mind and with one voice you may glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Wherefore, receive one another with kindness, as the Christ has received you, to the glory of God.
Now, I say, that Jesus Christ, as a minister, was of the circumcision for the sake of the truth of God, in order to confirm the promises made to the fathers,
and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy, as it is written: For this cause I will give praise to thee among the Gentiles, and to thy name will I sing.
And again he says: Rejoice, you Gentiles, with his people.
And again: Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and applaud him all you peoples.
And again, Isaiah says: There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to rule the Gentiles, in him shall the Gentiles trust.
Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in the hope, by the power of the Holy Spirit.
And I myself am persuaded concerning you, my brethren, that you yourselves are full of all goodness, having been filled with all knowledge, able also to instruct one another.
Yet I have written to you more boldly in part, my brethren, as if I would put you in remembrance, on account of the grace which is given to me by God,
that I may be the public servant of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, officiating as a priest with respect to the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles may be acceptable, having been sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
I have, therefore, cause to glory in Christ Jesus in things that pertain to God.
For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ has not accomplished through me, by word and deed, in order to make the Gentiles obedient,
by the power of signs and wonders by the power of the Holy Spirit. So that from Jerusalem, and round about as far as Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of the Christ;
so earnestly desirous have I been to preach the gospel, not where Christ had been named, lest I should build on another man’s foundation;
but, as it is written: They to whom he was not preached, shall see; and they who have not heard, shall understand.
For which reason, also, I have been often hindered from coming to you.
But now, having no longer a place in these regions, and having had for many years a strong desire to come to you,
when I make my journey into Spain, I hope, in passing through, to see you, and to be conducted by you on my journey thither, after I am first partly satisfied with your company.
But now I am going to Jerusalem, to minister to the saints.
For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make a contribution for the poor saints who are in Jerusalem:
they have been pleased to do so, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have become partakers of their spiritual things, they ought to minister to them in things pertaining to the flesh.
When, therefore, I shall have performed this, and have delivered to them this fruit, I will go by you into Spain.
And I know that in coming to you, I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.
Now I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me, in your prayers to God for me,
that I may be delivered from the unbelievers in Judea, and that this service of mine, which is for Jerusalem, may be acceptable to the saints;
that I may come to you with joy, by the will of God, and may be refreshed among you.
The God of peace be with you all. Amen.