Zedekiah was a son of twenty one years when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
And he did evil in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
For it was because of the anger of Jehovah in Jerusalem and Judah that Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon, until Jehovah had cast them out from His face.
And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, king Nebu-chadnezzar of Babylon came, he and all his army against Jerusalem, and pitched against it, and built a siege wall against it all around.
And the city came under siege until the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.
And in the fourth month, in the ninth of the month, the famine was severe in the city, so that there was no food for the people of the land.
Then the city was breached, and all the men of war fled, and went out of the city by night by the way of the gate between the two walls, which was by the king's garden. And the Chaldeans lay all around the city. And they went by the way of the Arabah.
But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah in the Arabah of Jericho. And all his army was scattered from him.
And they took the king and carried him up to the king of Babylon, to Riblah in the land of Hamath, where he gave judgments against him.
And the king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes. He also slaughtered all the rulers of Judah in Riblah.
And he blinded the eyes of Zedekiah. And the king of Babylon bound him in bronze fetters and carried him to Babylon. And he put him in prison until the day of his death.
And in the fifth month, in the tenth of the month, which was the nineteenth year of king Nebu-chadnezzar of Babylon, Nebu-zaradan, the chief of the executioners, who stood before the king of Babylon, came into Jerusalem.
And he burned the house of Jehovah and the king's house. And he burned all the houses of Jerusalem with fire, and all the houses of the great ones.
And all the army of the Chaldeans with the chief of the executioners broke down all the walls of Jerusalem all around.
Then Nebu-zaradan, the chief of the executioners, exiled some of the poor of the people, and the rest of the people who remained in the city, and those who fell away, who fell to the king of Babylon, and the rest of the multitude.
But Nebu-zaradan, the chief of the executioners, left some of the poor of the land for vinedressers and for farmers.
Also the Chaldeans broke the pillars of bronze that were in the house of Jehovah, and the bases, and the bronze sea in the house of Jehovah, and carried all the bronze from them to Babylon.
They also took away the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the bowls, and the spoons, and all the vessels of bronze with which they served.
And the chief of the executioners took away the basins, and the fire pans, and the bowls, and the pots, the lampstands, and the spoons, and the cups; what was gold, in gold, and what was silver, in silver,
the two pillars, one sea, and twelve bronze bulls that were under the bases, which king Solomon had made in the house of Jehovah. The weight of the bronze of all these vessels was not known .
And the pillars: the height of one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a line of twelve cubits went around it, and its thickness was four fingers; it was hollow.
And a capital of bronze was on it; and the height of one capital was five cubits, with net-work and pomegranates on the capitals all around, all of bronze. And like these was the second pillar, and the pomegranates.
And there were ninety six pomegranates on a side; all the pomegranates on the net-work were a hundred all around.
And the chief of the executioners took Seraiah the head priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three doorkeepers.
He also took out of the city one eunuch who was in charge of the men of war, and seven men who saw the king's face, who were found in the city, and the commander of the army's scribe who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the middle of the city.
And Nebu-zaradan, the chief of the executioners, took them and led them to the king of Babylon, to Riblah.
And the king of Babylon struck them and slaughtered them in Riblah in the land of Hamath. And Judah was exiled from off his land.
This is the people whom Nebu-chadnezzar exiled: In the seventh year, three thousand and twenty three Jews;
in the eighteenth year of Nebu-chadnezzar, eight hundred thirty souls from Jerusalem;
in the twenty third year of Nebu-chadnezzar, Nebu-zaradan, the chief of the executioners, exiled seven hundred forty five souls of the Jews. All the souls were four thousand and six hundred.
And it happened in the thirty seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin, king of Judah, in the twelfth month, in the twenty fifth of the month, Evil-merodach, king of Babylon, in the year of his reign lifted up the head of Jehoiachin, king of Judah, and brought him from the prison house.
And he spoke good to him and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon.
And he changed his prison garments, and he ate bread before his face continually all the days of his life.
And his allowance in continual allowance was given to him from the king of Babylon, the matter of a day in its day, until the day of his death, all the days of his life.