And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Command the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them, When, ye, are coming into the land of Canaan, this is the land which shall fall unto you, as an inheritance, even the land of Canaan, by the boundaries thereof.
Ye shall therefore have a south corner, from the desert of Zin, on the side of Edom,—so shall ye have a south boundary, from the end of the salt sea, eastward:
and the boundary shall go round for you from the south towards the cliffs of Akrabbim, then cross over towards Zin, and the extension thereof shall be from the south to Kadesh-barnea, then shall it reach out to Hazar-addar, and cross over towards Azmon;
then shall the boundary turn round from Azmon towards the ravine of Egypt,—and the extension thereof shall be towards the sea.
And, for a west boundary,—ye shall have the great sea, even a boundary, this, shall serve you as west boundary.
And, this, shall serve you as a north boundary,—From the great sea, ye shall draw a line for you to Mount Hor:
From Mount Hor, ye shall draw a line to the entering in of Hamath,—and the extension of the boundary shall be towards Zedad:
then shall the boundary reach out towards Ziphron, and the extension thereof, be to Hazar-enan. This, shall serve you as a north, boundary.
Then shall ye draw for yourselves a line, for an east boundary,—from Hazar-enan towards Shepham;
and the boundary shall go down from Shepham towards Riblah, on the east of Ain—then shall the boundary go down and strike on the side of the Sea of Chinnereth, eastward:
then shall the boundary go down towards the Jordan, and the extension thereof be to the salt sea. This shall be your land by the boundaries thereof round about.
And Moses commanded the sons of Israel saying,—This, is the land, which ye shall inherit by lot, which Yahweh had commanded to be given to the nine tribes and the half tribe.
For the tribe of the sons of the Reubenites by their ancestral house, and the tribe of the sons of Gad, by their ancestral house, have received, and, the half tribe of Manasseh have received, their inheritance:
the two tribes, and the half tribe, have received their inheritance—on this side Jordan near Jericho, eastwards, towards sunrise.
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
These, are the names of the men who shall receive for you the land, as an inheritance, Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, son of Nun.
Also, one prince from each tribe, shall ye take to receive the land, as an inheritance.
These, therefore, are the names of the men,—For the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh;
And, for the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemuel son of Ammihud:
For the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad son of Chislon;
And, for the tribe of the sons of Dan, a prince—Bukki, son of Jogli:
For the sons of Joseph, For the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, a prince,—Hanniel son of Ephod;
And, for the tribe of the sons of Ephraim, a prince,—Kemuel, son of Shiphtan;
And, for the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, a prince,—Elizaphan, son of Parnach;
And, for the tribe of the sons of Issachar, a prince,—Paltiel son of Azzan;
And, for the tribe of the sons of Asher, a prince,—Ahihud son of Shelomi:
And, for the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, a prince,—Pedahel, son of Ammihud.
These, are they whom Yahweh hath commanded to receive for the sons of Israel their inheritance, in the land of Canaan.