And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them,—When any man or woman, would make the special vow of One Separate, by separating himself unto Yahweh,
from wine and strong drink, shall he separate himself, neither vinegar of wine nor vinegar of strong drink, shall he drink,—and no liquor of grapes, shall he drink, no grapes fresh or dried, shall he eat.
All the days of his separation, of nothing that is made from the grapevine from the seeds even to the skin, shall he eat.
All the days of his vow of separation, no razor, shall pass over his head,—until the days are fulfilled for which he shall separate himself to Yahweh hallowed, shall he be, letting the locks of the hair of his head grow long.
All the days for which he hath separated himself unto Yahweh to no dead person, shall he go in.
Neither for his father nor for his mother nor for his brother nor for his sister, shall he make himself unclean-not even for them, should they die,—because, his separation unto God, is upon his head,
All his days of separation hallowed, is he unto Yahweh.
But if one that is dying should die by him in a moment suddenly, then shall he count unclean his head of separation,—and shall shave his head, on the day he cleanseth himself, on the seventh day, shall he shave it.
And on the eighth day, shall he bring in. two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons,—unto the priest, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting;
and the priest shall make, of one a sin—bearer and of one an ascending-sacrifice, and so put a propitiatory-covering over him, for that he sinned in respect of the dead person,—thus shall he hallow his head on that day.
Then shall he separate unto Yahweh his days of separation, and shall bring in a he-lamb a year old as a guilt-bearer,—and, the first days, shall be lost because his separation, was made unclean.
And, this, is the law of the Separate One, on the day when he fulfilleth his days of separation, he shall be brought in unto the entrance of the tent of meeting:
then shall he bring near as his offering unto Yahweh.—one he-lamb a year old, without defect for an ascending-sacrifice, and one ewe-lamb a year old without defect for a sin-bearer,—and one ram, without defect for a peace-offering;
and a basket of unleavened cakes—fine meal in round cakes overflowed with oil, and thin cakes of unleavened bread, anointed with oil,—with their meal-offering and their drink-offerings.
Then shall the priest bring [them] near before Yahweh,—and offer his sin-bearer and his ascending-sacrifice;
and the ram, shall he offer as a peace-offering unto Yahweh, besides the basket of unleavened cakes,—and the priest shall offer the meal-offering thereof and the drink-offering thereof,
Then shall the Separate One shave, at the entrance of the tent of meeting, his head of separation,—and take the hair of his head of separation, and put upon the fire, which is under the peace-offering.
Then shall the priest take the shoulder for boiling from the ram, and one unleavened round cake from the basket, and one unleavened thin cake,—and place them on the hands, of the Separate One after he hath shaven off his [hair of] separation;
and the priest shall wave them as a wave-offering before Yahweh, hallowed, it is for the priest, besides the wave breast, and besides the heave leg,—and, afterwards, may the Separate One drink wine.
This is the law of One Separate what he shall vow, his offering unto Yahweh with respect to his separation, besides what his hand may obtain: as required by the vow that he shall vow, so, must he do, with respect to the law of his separation.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto Aaron, and unto his sons saying Thus, shall ye bless the sons of Israel,—saying unto them:
Yahweh bless thee, and keep thee:
Yahweh cause his face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee:
Yahweh lift up his face unto thee, and appoint unto thee peace.
Thus shall they put my name upon the sons of Israel,—and, I, myself, will bless them.