A book of a genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Abraham begot Isaac, and Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers,
and Judah begot Perez and Zerah from Tamar, and Perez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram,
and Ram begot Amminadab, and Amminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon,
and Salmon begot Boaz from Rahab, and Boaz begot Obed from Ruth, and Obed begot Jesse,
and Jesse begot David the king. And David begot Solomon from the widow of Uriah,
and Solomon begot Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa,
and Asa begot Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah,
and Uzziah begot Jotham, and Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah,
and Hezekiah begot Manasseh, and Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah,
and Josiah begot Jechoniah and his brothers during the Babylonian exile.
And after the Babylonian exile, Jechoniah begot Shealtiel, and Shealtiel begot Zerubbabel,
and Zerubbabel begot Abiud, and Abiud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor,
and Azor begot Zadoc, and Zadoc begot Achim, and Achim begot Eliud,
and Eliud begot Eleazar, and Eleazar begot Matthan, and Matthan begot Jacob,
and Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David to the Babylonian exile fourteen generations, and from the Babylonian exile to the Christ fourteen generations.
Now the birth of Jesus Christ was this way. For his mother Mary, who was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found having in her womb from the Holy Spirit.
But Joseph her husband, being a righteous man, and not wanting to expose her to public disgrace, intended to dismiss her privately.
But while he considered these things, behold, an agent of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take Mary to be thy wife, for that which was begotten in her is from the Holy Spirit.
And she will bring forth a son, and thou shall call his name JESUS, for he will save his people from their sins.
Now all this has come to pass, so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, which says,
Behold, the virgin will have in her womb, and will bring forth a son. And they will call his name Immanuel, which is, being interpreted, God with us.
And Joseph, being roused from his sleep, did as the agent of the Lord ordered him. And he took his wife,
and knew her not until she brought forth her son, the firstborn. And he called his name JESUS.