And the whole congregation of the sons of Israel assembled themselves together at Shiloh, and set up the tent of meeting there, and the land was subdued before them.
And seven tribes remained among the sons of Israel, which had not yet divided their inheritance.
And Joshua said to the sons of Israel, How long are ye slack to go in to possess the land, which Jehovah, the God of your fathers, has given you?
Appoint for you three men of each tribe. And I will send them, and they shall arise, and walk through the land, and describe it according to their inheritance, and they shall come to me.
And they shall divide it into seven portions: Judah shall abide in his border on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in their border on the north.
And ye shall describe the land into seven portions, and bring it here to me. And I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah our God.
For the Levites have no portion among you, for the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance, and Gad and Reuben and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave them.
And the men arose, and went. And Joshua charged those who went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me. And I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah in Shiloh.
And the men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities into seven portions in a book. And they came to Joshua to the camp at Shiloh.
And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Jehovah. And there Joshua divided the land to the sons of Israel according to their divisions.
And the lot of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin came up according to their families, and the border of their lot went out between the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph.
And their border on the north quarter was from the Jordan, and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north, and went up through the hill-country westward. And the goings out of it were at the wilderness of Beth-aven.
And the border passed along from there to Luz, to the side of Luz (the same is Bethel), southward, and the border went down to Ataroth-addar, by the mountain that lies on the south of Beth-horon the nether.
And the border extended, and turned around on the west quarter southward, from the mountain that lies before Beth-horon southward. And the goings out of it were at Kiriath-baal (the same is Kiriath-jearim), a city of the sons of Judah. This was the west quarter.
And the south quarter was from the uttermost part of Kiriath-jearim, and the border went out westward, and went out to the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah,
and the border went down to the uttermost part of the mountain that lies before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the vale of Rephaim northward, and it went down to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite southward, and went down to En-rogel,
and it extended northward, and went out at En-shemesh, and went out to Geliloth, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, and it went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben,
and it passed along to the side opposite the Arabah northward, and went down to the Arabah,
and the border passed along to the side of Beth-hoglah northward. And the goings out of the border were at the north bay of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Jordan. This was the south border.
And the Jordan was the border of it on the east quarter. This was the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, by the borders of it round about, according to their families.
Now the cities of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin according to their families were: Jericho, and Beth-hoglah, and Emek-keziz,
and Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel,
and Avvim, and Parah, and Ophrah,
and Chephar-ammoni, and Ophni, and Geba; twelve cities with their villages.
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
and Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,
and Zelah, Eleph, and the Jebusite (the same is Jerusalem), Gibeath, and Kiriath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin according to their families.