Woe to her rebelling and becoming defiled, to the oppressing city!
She did not obey the voice; she did not receive correction. She trusted not in the LORD; she did not draw near to her God.
Her rulers within her are roaring lions; her judges evening wolves. They do not gnaw bones for the morning.
Her prophets are proud, men of deceit; her priests have defiled the sanctuary; they have done violence to the law.
The just LORD is in her midst; He will not act perversely. Every morning He gives His justice to the light; He fails not; but the perverse knows no shame.
I have cut off the nations; their towers are ruined. I made their streets waste, so that none passes by; their cities are laid waste, without a man, there being no inhabitant.
I said, Surely you will fear Me; you will receive instruction; then her dwelling shall not be cut off, all that I appointed for her. But they rose early, corrupting all their doings.
Therefore wait for Me, says the LORD, for the day I rise up to the prey; for My judgment is to gather the nations, for Me to collect the kingdoms, to pour on them My fury, all My hot anger. For all the earth shall be burned up with the fire of My jealousy.
For then I will give a clear lip to the people, to call all of them by the name of the LORD, to serve Him with one shoulder.
From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, My worshipers, the daughter of My scattered ones, shall bring My food offering.
In that day you shall not be ashamed for all your doings in which you have transgressed against Me; for then I will withdraw from your midst those who rejoice in your pride, and you shall never again be proud in My holy mountain.
I will also leave in your midst a poor and weak people, and they shall trust in the name of the LORD.
The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity nor speak lies, and a deceitful tongue shall not be found in their mouth; for they shall feed and lie down, and none shall make them afraid.
Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.
The LORD has turned off your judgments; He has cast out your enemy. The king of Israel, the LORD, is in your midst; you shall not fear evil any more.
In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not! Do not let not your hands droop, Zion.
The LORD your God is mighty in your midst; He will save, He will rejoice over you with joy; He is silent in His love; He rejoices over you with joyful shout.
I will gather the afflicted ones from the appointed place; they were from you, a lifting up of reproach over her.
Behold, at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you. And I will save her who is lame, and gather her who was driven out. And I will give them for a praise and for a name in all the land of their shame.
In that time I will bring you, even in the time that I gather you; for I will give you for a name and for a praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I turn back your captivity before your eyes, says the LORD.