For the Leader; upon Muthlabben. A Psalm of David.
I will give thanks unto HaShem with my whole heart; I will tell of all Thy marvellous works.
I will be glad and exult in Thee; I will sing praise to Thy name, O Most High:
When mine enemies are turned back, they stumble and perish at Thy presence;
For Thou hast maintained my right and my cause; Thou sattest upon the throne as the righteous Judge.
Thou hast rebuked the nations, Thou hast destroyed the wicked, Thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever.
O thou enemy, the waste places are come to an end for ever; and the cities which thou didst uproot, their very memorial is perished.
But HaShem is enthroned for ever; He hath established His throne for judgment.
And He will judge the world in righteousness, He will minister judgment to the peoples with equity.
HaShem also will be a high tower for the oppressed, a high tower in times of trouble;
And they that know Thy name will put their trust in Thee; for thou, HaShem, hast not forsaken them that seek Thee.
Sing praises to HaShem, who dwelleth in Zion; declare among the peoples His doings.
For He that avengeth blood hath remembered them; He hath not forgotten the cry of the humble.
Be gracious unto me, O HaShem, behold mine affliction at the hands of them that hate me; Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death;
That I may tell of all Thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion, that I may rejoice in Thy salvation.
The nations are sunk down in the pit that they made; in the net which they hid is their own foot taken.
HaShem hath made Himself known, He hath executed judgment, the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah
The wicked shall return to the nether-world, even all the nations that forget G-d.
For the needy shall not alway be forgotten, nor the expectation of the poor perish for ever.
Arise, O HaShem, let not man prevail; let the nations be judged in Thy sight.
Set terror over them, O HaShem; let the nations know they are but men. Selah