And Ioseph coude no longer refrayne before all them that stode aboute him but commaunded that they shuld goo all out from him and that there shuld be no man with him whyle he vttred him selfe vnto his brethern.
And he wepte alowde so that the Egiptians and the house of Pharao herde it.
And he sayde vnto his brethern: I am Ioseph: doth my father yet lyue? But his brethern coude not answere him for they were abasshed at his presence.
And Ioseph sayde vnto his brethern: come nere to me and they came nere. And he sayde: I am Ioseph youre brother whom ye sold in to Egipte.
And now be not greued therwith nether let it seme a cruel thinge in youre eyes that ye solde me hither. For God dyd send me before you to saue lyfe.
For this is the seconde yere of derth in the lande and fyue moo are behynde in which there shall nether be earynge nor hervest.
Wherfore God sent me before you to make prouision that ye myghte continue in the erth and to save youre lyues by a greate delyuerance.
So now it was not ye that sent me hither but God: and he hath made me father vnto Pharao and lorde ouer all his house and rueler in all the land of Egipte.
Hast you ad goo to my father and tell him this sayeth thy sonne Ioseph: God hath made me lorde ouer all Egipte. Come downe vnto me and tarye not
And thou shalt dwell in the londe of Gosan and be by me: both thou and thi childern and thi childerns childern: and thy shepe and beestes and all that thou hast.
There will I make provision for the: for there remayne yet v yeres of derth lest thou and thi houshold and all that thou hast perish.
Beholde youre eyes do se and the eyes also of my brother Ben Iamin that I speake to you by mouth.
Therfore tell my father of all my honoure which I haue in Egipte and of all that ye haue sene ad make hast and brynge in father hither.
And he fell on his brother Ben Iamis necke and wepte and Ben Iamin wepte on his necke.
Moreouer he fylled all his brethern and wepte apon them. And after that his brethern talked with him.
And when the tidynges was come vnto Pharaos housse that Iosephes brethern were come it pleased Pharao well and all his seruauntes.
And Pharao spake vnto Ioseph: saye vnto thy brethern this do ye: lade youre beestes ad get you hence And when ye be come vnto the londe of Canaan
take youre father and youre housholdes and come vnto me and I will geue you the beste of the lande of Egipte and ye shall eate the fatt of the londe.
And commaunded also. This do ye: take charettes with you out of the lande of Egipte for youre childern and for youre wyues: and brynge youre father and come.
Also regarde not youre stuff for the goodes of all the londe of Egipte shalbe youres.
And the childern of Israell dyd euen so And Ioseph gaue them charettes at the commaundment of Pharao and gaue them vitayle also to spende by the waye.
And he gaue vnto eche of them chaunge of rayment: but vnto Ben Iamin he gaue .iij. hundred peces of syluer and .v. chaunge of rayment.
And vnto his father he sent after the same maner: .x. he asses laden with good out of Egipte and .x. she asses laden with corne bred and meate: to serue his father by the waye.
So sent he his brethern awaye and they departed. And he sayde vnto them: se that ye fall nor out by the waye.
And they departed from Egipte and came in to the land of Canaan vnto Iacob their father and told him saynge.
Ioseph is yet a lyue and is gouerner ouer all the land of Egipte. And Iacobs hert wauered for he beleued tho not.
And they tolde him all the wordes of Ioseph which he had sayde vnto them. But when he sawe the charettes which Ioseph had sent to carie him then his sprites reviued.
And Israel sayde. I haue ynough yf Ioseph my sonne be yet alyue: I will goo and se him yer that I dye.