And on one of those days, as He taught the people in the temple and proclaimed the gospel, it happened that the chief priests and the scribes along with the elders came on Him.
And they spoke to Him, saying, Tell us, by what authority do you do these things? Or who is he who gave you this authority?
And He answered and said to them, I will also ask you one thing, and you answer me:
The baptism of John, was it from Heaven or from men?
And they reasoned within themselves, saying, If we shall say, From Heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him?
But if we say, From men, then all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet.
And they answered that they could not tell from where it was.
And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
And He began to speak to the people this parable: A certain man planted a vineyard and let it out to vinedressers. And he went into a far country for a long time.
And in season he sent a servant to the vinedressers, so that they should give him the fruit of the vineyard. But the vinedressers beat him and sent him away empty.
And again he sent another servant. And they also beat him and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.
And again he sent a third. And they also wounded him and cast him out.
And the lord of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be that they will respect him when they see him.
But when the vinedressers saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir! Come, let us kill him so that the inheritance may be ours.
So they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then shall the lord of the vineyard do to them?
He shall come and destroy these vinedressers and shall give the vineyard to others. And when they heard this, they said, Let it not be!
And He looked at them and said, What then is this which is written, " The Stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the Head of the corner?
Whoever shall fall on that Stone shall be broken, but on whomever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder."
And the chief priests and the scribes sought to lay hands on Him the same hour. And they feared the people, for they perceived that He had spoken this parable against them.
And they watched and sent forth spies, pretending themselves to be righteous men, so that they might seize upon a word of His, that they might deliver Him in this way to the power and authority of the governor.
And they asked Him, saying, Teacher, we know that you say and teach rightly, and do not accept the person of anyone, but truly teach the way of God.
Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar or not?
But He perceived their craftiness and said to them, Why do you tempt Me?
Show Me a coin. Whose image and inscription does it have? They answered and said, Caesar's.
And He said to them, Therefore render to Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and to God the things which are God's.
And they could not take hold of His words before the people. And they marveled at His answer and were silent.
And certain of the Sadducees came, those speaking against a resurrection, that it was not to be. And they asked Him,
saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us, If anyone's brother dies, having a wife, and if he dies without children, his brother should take his wife and raise up seed to his brother.
Therefore there were seven brothers. And the first took a wife and died without children.
And the second took her as a wife, and he died childless.
And the third took her. And likewise the seven left no children and died.
Last of all the woman also died.
Therefore in the resurrection whose wife shall she be? For the seven had her as a wife.
And answering, Jesus said to them, The sons of this world marry and are given in marriage,
but they who shall be counted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage.
Nor can they die any more, for they are equal to the angels, and are the sons of God, being the sons of the resurrection.
But that the dead are raised, even Moses pointed out at the Bush, when he called the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
For He is not God of the dead, but of the living. For all live to Him.
And answering, certain of the scribes said, Teacher, you have spoken well.
And after that they did not dare ask Him anything.
And He said to them, How do they say that Christ is the Son of David?
Even David himself says in the Book of Psalms, "The LORD said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand
until I place Your enemies as Your footstool."
David then calls Him Lord; how then is He his son?
And as all the people were listening, He said to the disciples,
Beware of the scribes who desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the first seats in the synagogues, and the chief places at the feasts;
who devour widows' houses, and make long prayers for a show; the same shall receive a more severe condemnation.