And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for warfare to fight with Israel. And Achish said to David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shall go out with me in the army, thou and thy men.
And David said to Achish, Therefore thou shall know what thy servant will do. And Achish said to David, Therefore I will make thee my chief bodyguard forever.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those who had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem. And Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And when Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, Jehovah answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
Then Saul said to his servants, Seek me a woman who has a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman who has a familiar spirit at En-dor.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and went, he and two men with him. And they came to the woman by night, and he said, Divine to me, I pray thee, by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whomever I shall name to thee.
And the woman said to him, Behold, thou know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. Why then do thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
And Saul swore to her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah lives, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice. And the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why have thou deceived me? For thou are Saul.
And the king said to her, Be not afraid, for what do thou see? And the woman said to Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And he said to her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man comes up, and he is covered with a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and did obeisance.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am greatly distressed, for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answers me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams. Therefore I have called thee, that thou may make known to me what I shall do.
And Samuel said, Why then do thou ask of me, since Jehovah departed from thee, and has become thine adversary?
And Jehovah has done to thee, as he spoke by me. And Jehovah has torn the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even to David.
Because thou obeyed not the voice of Jehovah, and did not execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore Jehovah has done this thing to thee this day.
Moreover Jehovah will deliver Israel also with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow thou and thy sons shall be with me. Jehovah will also deliver the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Then Saul fell straightaway his full length upon the earth, and was greatly afraid because of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was greatly troubled, and said to him, Behold, thy handmaid has hearkened to thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened to thy words which thou spoke to me.
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also to the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee, and eat, that thou may have strength when thou go on thy way.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him, and he hearkened to their voice. So he arose from the ground, and sat upon the bed.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house. And she hastened, and killed it, and she took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread of it.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate. Then they rose up, and went away that night.