Then said Balaam unto Balak: Build me here seven altars,—and prepare me here, seven bullocks and seven rams.
And Balak did as Balaam had spoken,—and Balak and Balaam caused to ascend a bullock and a ram on each altar.
Then said Balaam unto Balak: Station thyself by thine ascending-sacrifice, and let me go my way—peradventure Yahweh may come and meet me, and what thing soever he may show me, I will tell thee. So he went his way to a bare height.
And God came unto Balaam,—so he said unto him The seven altars, have I built in a row, and have caused to ascend, bullock and a ram on each altar.
And Yahweh put a word into the mouth of Balaam,—and said—Return unto Balak, and, thus, shalt thou speak.
So he returned unto him, and lo! he was stationed by his ascending-sacrifice,—he, and all the princes of Moab.
So he took up his parable and said,—From Aram, doth Balak conduct me, The king of Moab, from the mountains of the East, Come thou! curse me Jacob, Yea, come thou! rage on Israel.
How can I revile one whom GOD hath not reviled? Yea, how can I rage on one on whom Yahweh hath not raged?
Surely from the head of the rocks, do I see him, Yea, from the hills, do I observe him,—Lo! a people, who alone doth dwell, And among the nations, he doth not reckon himself.
Who hath counted the dust of Jacob? Or who hath numbered the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the upright, And let my hereafter be like his!
Then said Balak unto Balaam, What hast thou done for me? To revile mine enemies, I summoned thee, and lo! thou hast kept on blessing.
And he answered and said,—Was it not to be so that whatsoever Yahweh should put into my mouth, the same, should I take heed to speak?
Then said Balak unto him—Come, I pray thee, with me unto another place, from whence thou mayest see him, nothing but his utmost part, shalt thou see, but all of him, shalt thou not see,—and so revile me him from thence.
And he took him to the field of Zophim, unto the head of Pisgah,—and built seven altars, and caused to ascend a bullock and a ram on each altar.
Then said he to Balak, Station thyself here by thine ascending-sacrifice,—while, I, meet him yonder.
And Yahweh met Balaam, and put a word into his mouth,—and said—Return unto Balak and thus shalt thou speak.
So he came in unto him and, there he was-stationed by his ascending-sacrifice, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What hath Yahweh spoken?
Then took he up his parable and said,—Rise, Balak, and hear, Give ear unto me son of Zippor!
GOD is, not a man, that he should lie, Nor a son of Adam, that he should repent,—Hath, he, said, and will not perform? Yea spoken, and will not make it stand fast?
Lo! to bless, have I received [command],—And I will bless, nor will I take it back.
He hath not discovered trouble in Jacob, Neither hath he seen wretchedness in Israel,—Yahweh, his God, is with him, And, the acclaim of a king, in his midst:
GOD having brought them forth out of Egypt, The very horns of the buffalo, are his:
Surely, there is no enchantment against Jacob, Nor divination against Israel,—Now, shall it be said—Of Jacob and of Israel, What hath GOD wrought!
Lo, a people, like a lioness, shall rise, And like a strong lion, shall rouse himself up; He will not lie down till he eat the torn, And the blood of the slain, he drink.
Then said Balak unto Balaam, Thou shalt neither revile, him,—nor bless him.
And Balaam responded, and said unto Balak,—Spake I not unto thee, saying, All that Yahweh shall speak, that, must I do?
And Balak said unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee! let me take thee unto another place,—peradventure, it may be right in the eyes of God, that thou revile me him. from thence.
So Balak took Balaam,—unto the head of Peor, that looketh over the face of the Jeshimon.
And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here, seven altars,—and prepare me here, seven bullocks and seven rams.
And Balak did as Balaam said,—and caused to ascend a bullock and a ram on each altar.