But it shall come to pass in the last of the times [that] the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established as the top of the mountains and higher than all the hills, and peoples shall flow unto it.
And many Gentiles shall come and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the LORD and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall go forth from Zion and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
And he shall judge among many peoples and correct strong nations even afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruninghooks; nation shall not lift up a sword against nation, neither shall they train for war any more.
But each one shall sit under their vine and under their fig tree, and no one shall make [them] afraid, for the mouth of the LORD of the hosts has spoken [it].
Even if all the peoples should walk each one in the name of their gods; with all this we will walk in the name of the LORD our God for ever and eternally.
In that day, saith the LORD, I will assemble her that is lame, and I will gather her that is driven out, and her that I have afflicted,
and I will make her that is lame to be heirs, and her that was cast off a strong nation, and the LORD shall reign over them in the mount of Zion from now, and for evermore.
And thou, O tower of the flock, the stronghold of the daughter of Zion shall come unto thee; and the dominion shall come first, the kingdom, to the daughter of Jerusalem.
Now why dost thou cry out aloud? [is there] no king in thee? is thy counsellor perished? for pangs have taken thee as a woman in travail.
Be in pain, and labour to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in travail; for now thou shalt go forth out of the city, and thou shalt dwell in the field, and thou shalt go [even] to Babylon; there shalt thou be delivered; there the LORD shall redeem thee from the hand of thine enemies.
But now many nations are gathered against thee that say, Let her be defiled, and let our eyes see our desire [carried out] upon Zion.
But they did not know the thoughts of the LORD, neither did they understand his counsel by which he gathered them as sheaves onto the [threshing] floor.
Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion; for I will make thine horn iron, and I will make thy hoofs bronze; and thou shalt break in pieces many peoples; and thou shalt consecrate their spoil unto the LORD and their riches unto the Lord of the whole earth.: