I write to you now this second letter, beloved, in which I arouse your sincere mind by a reminder,
to remember the sayings that were earlier spoken by the holy prophets, and of the command of your apostles of the Lord and Savior.
Knowing this first, that there will come at the end of the days, scoffers, proceeding according to their own desires,
and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For, from since the fathers became asleep, all things continue this way from the beginning of creation.
For this is willfully ignored by them, that long ago there were heavens, and an earth that came together out of water and by water by the word of God,
by which the world then perished, having been overflowed with water.
But now the heavens and the earth, which have been stored up by the same word, are being preserved for fire in a day of judgment and destruction of irreverent men.
But beloved, let not this one thing be ignored by you, that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
The Lord is not slack about his promise, as some regard slackness, but is patient toward us, not wanting any to perish, but all to go forward to repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, during which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements, being intensely hot, will be disintegrated, and the earth and the works in it will be destroyed by fire.
Therefore, all these things being disintegrated, what kind ought ye to be in holy actions and pieties,
anticipating and hastening the coming of the day of God, by which the heavens, being made fiery hot, will be disintegrated, and the elements dissolve, being intensely hot?
But we anticipate a new heavens and a new earth according to his promise, in which righteousness dwells.
Therefore, beloved, anticipating these things, be diligent to be found by him in peace, without spot and blameless.
And consider the longsuffering of our Lord, salvation, just as also our beloved brother Paul wrote to you according to the wisdom given to him,
as also in all his letters, speaking in them about these things, in which are some things hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist, as also the other scriptures, to their own destruction.
Ye therefore, beloved, knowing in advance, keep watch, lest, having accommodated to the error of the lawless, ye fall from your own steadfastness.
But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him is the glory both now and into the day of the age. Truly.