And Job answered and said,
How long will you torment my soul and break me in pieces with words?
And this, ten times you have blamed me; you are not ashamed that you have wronged me.
And if indeed I have erred, my error remains with me.
If indeed you magnify yourself against me, and plead against me my misery,
know now that God has overthrown me, and His net has closed on me.
Behold, I cry out, Violence! And I am not answered. I cry aloud, but there is no justice.
He has fenced up my way so that I cannot pass, and He has set darkness in my paths.
He has stripped me of my glory, and has taken the crown from my head.
He has broken me on every side, and I am gone, and He has uprooted my hope like a tree.
He has also kindled His wrath against me, and to Himself He counts me as His enemy.
His troops come together and raise up their way against me, and camp around my tent.
He has put my brothers far from me, and my friends have truly turned away from me.
My people have fallen away, and my familiar friends have forgotten me.
Those who dwell in my house, and my slave-girls, count me as a stranger; I am a foreigner in their sight.
I called my servant, and he gave no answer; I must beg him with my mouth.
My breath is hated by my wife, and I must beg to the sons of my mother's womb.
Even young children despise me; I arise, and they speak against me.
All the men of my counsel detest me, even this one I loved has turned against me.
My bone clings to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped with the skin of my teeth.
Have pity on me! Have pity on me, my friends! For the hand of God has touched me.
Why do you, like God, persecute me and are not satisfied with my flesh?
Oh that my words were now written! Oh that they were engraved in a book!
Oh that they were cut with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever!
For I know that my Redeemer lives, and He shall rise on the earth at the last;
and even after they corrupt my skin, yet this: in my flesh I shall see God,
whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not a stranger's; though My heart be exhausted in my bosom.
For you ought to say, Why do we persecute him, since the root of the matter is found in me?
Fear for yourselves because of the sword; for wrath brings the punishments of the sword, so that you may know there is a judgment.