And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, that they take for me an offering; of every man whose heart makes him willing ye shall take my offering.
And this is the offering which ye shall take of them: gold, and silver, and brass,
and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair,
and rams' skins dyed red, and certain skins, and acacia wood,
oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense,
onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.
According to all that I show thee: the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the furniture of it, even so shall ye make it.
And they shall make an ark of acacia wood. Two cubits and a half shall be the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it.
And thou shall overlay it with pure gold. Inside and outside thou shall overlay it, and shall make upon it a crown of gold round about.
And thou shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four feet of it. And two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
And thou shall make staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
And thou shall put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, with which to bear the ark.
The staves shall be in the rings of the ark; they shall not be taken from it.
And thou shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
And thou shall make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it.
And thou shall make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work shall thou make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat.
And make one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end; of one piece with the mercy-seat ye shall make the cherubim on the two ends of it.
And the cherubim shall spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces one to another; the faces of the cherubim shall be toward the mercy-seat.
And thou shall put the mercy-seat above upon the ark. And in the ark thou shall put the testimony that I shall give thee.
And there I will meet with thee. And I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment to the sons of Israel.
And thou shall make a table of acacia wood, two cubits the length of it, and a cubit the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it.
And thou shall overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about.
And thou shall make to it a border of a handbreadth round about, and thou shall make a golden crown to the border of it round about.
And thou shall make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet of it.
The rings shall be close by the border, for places for the staves to bear the table.
And thou shall make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.
And thou shall make the dishes of it, and the spoons of it, and the pitchers of it, and the bowls of it, with which to pour out, of pure gold thou shall make them.
And thou shall set upon the table showbread before me always.
And thou shall make a lampstand of pure gold. Of beaten work shall the lampstand be made, even its base, and its shaft, its cups, its knobs, and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it.
And there shall be six branches going out of the sides of it, three branches of the lampstand out of the one side of it, and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side of it:
three cups made like almond-blossoms in one branch, a knob and a flower, and three cups made like almond-blossoms in the other branch, a knob and a flower, so for the six branches going out of the lampstand,
and in the lampstand four cups made like almond-blossoms, the knobs of it, and the flowers of it.
And a knob under two branches of one piece with it, and a knob under two branches of one piece with it, and a knob under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
Their knobs and their branches shall be of one piece with it, the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold.
And thou shall make the lamps of it, seven. And they shall light the lamps of it, to give light in front of it.
And the snuffers of it, and the snuff dishes of it, shall be of pure gold.
Of a talent of pure gold shall it be made, with all these vessels.
And see that thou make them according to their pattern that has been shown thee on the mountain.