When therefore the Lord knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John
(though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples),
he left Judaea and departed again into Galilee.
And it was necessary that he go through Samaria.
Then he came to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus, therefore, being wearied with [his] journey, sat thus on the well; [and] it was about the sixth hour.
There came a woman of Samaria to draw water; Jesus said unto her, Give me to drink.
(For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy food.)
Then said the Samaritan woman unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, who am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.
Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
The woman said unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep; from where then hast thou that living water?
Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank thereof himself, and his sons and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinks of this water shall thirst again,
but whosoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst, but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a fountain of water springing up into eternal life.
The woman said unto him, Lord, give me this water, that I not thirst, neither come here to draw.
Jesus said unto her, Go, call thy husband and come here.
The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband;
for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband; this hast thou said with truth.
The woman said unto him, Lord, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where it is necessary to worship.
Jesus said unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour comes when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem shall ye worship the Father.
Ye worship what ye know not; we worship what we know, for saving health is of the Jews.
But the hour comes, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeks such to worship him.
God is a Spirit and those that worship him must worship [him] in spirit and in truth.
The woman said unto him, I know that [the] Messiah is to come, who is called the Christ; when he is come, he will declare [unto] us all things.
Jesus said unto her, I AM that speak unto thee.
And upon this came his disciples and marvelled that he talked with [that] woman; yet no one said, What askest thou? or, What talkest thou with her?
The woman then left her waterpot and went into the city and said to those men,
Come, see a man who told me all that I have done; is perchance this the Christ?
Then they went out of the city and came unto him.
In the meanwhile his disciples entreated him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
But he said unto them, I have a food to eat that ye know not of.
Therefore the said disciples one to another, Has anyone brought him [anything] to eat?
Jesus said unto them, My food is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work.
[Do] ye not say, There are yet four months and [then] comes harvest? Behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest.
And he that reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto eternal life, that both he that sows and he that reaps may rejoice together.
And herein is that saying true, One sows and another reaps.
I have sent you to reap that upon which ye bestowed no labour; others laboured, and ye have entered into their labours.
And many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him by the word of the woman, who testified, He told me all that I have done.
So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they asked him to abide with them; and he abode there two days.
And many more believed by his own word
and said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy speech; for we have heard [him] ourselves and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world.
Now after two days he departed from that place and went into Galilee.
For Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honour in his own country.
Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they had also gone to the feast.
So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum.
When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him and besought him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
Then Jesus said unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe.
The nobleman said unto him, Sir, come down before my child dies.
Jesus said unto him, Go; thy son lives. And the man believed the word that Jesus spoke unto him, and he went.
And as he was now going down, his servants met him and told [him], saying, Thy son lives.
Then he enquired of them the hour when he began to get better. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
So the father knew that [it was] at the same hour in which Jesus said unto him, Thy son lives; and he believed, and his whole house.
This again [is] the second sign [that] Jesus did when he was come out of Judaea into Galilee.: