Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.
And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down and taught them.
Then the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery, and when they had set her in the midst,
they said unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery in the very act.
Now Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned, but what sayest thou?
This they said, tempting him, that they might be able to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down and with [his] finger wrote on the ground.
So when they continued asking him, he lifted himself up and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him [be] the first to cast a stone at her.
And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground.
And those who heard [it], being convicted by [their own] conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest [even] unto the last; and Jesus was left alone and the woman that had been in the midst.
Jesus, lifting himself up and seeing no one but the woman, said unto her, Woman, where are thine accusers? Has no one condemned thee?
And she said, No one, Lord. Then Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee; go and sin no more.
Then Jesus spoke again unto them, saying, I AM the light of the world; he that follows me shall not walk in darkness but shall have the light of life.
Then the Pharisees said unto him, Thou dost bear witness of thyself; thy witness is not true.
Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear witness of myself, my witness is true, for I know from where I came and where I go; but ye do not know where I came from and where I go.
Ye judge after the flesh, but I judge no one.
And yet if I judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me.
It is also written in your law that the testimony of two men is true.
I AM one that bears witness of myself, and the Father that sent me bears witness of me.
Then they said unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father; if ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also.
Jesus spoke these words in the treasury as he taught in the temple, and no one laid hands on him, for his hour was not yet come.
Then Jesus said again unto them, I [am] going away, and ye shall seek me, but ye shall die in your sins; where I go, ye shall not be able to come.
Then the Jews said, Will he kill himself? because he says, Where I go, ye shall not be able to come.
And he said unto them, Ye are from below, I am from above; ye are of this world, I am not of this world.
Therefore I said unto you that ye shall die in your sins, for if ye do not believe that I AM, ye shall die in your sins.
And said they unto him, Who art thou? Then Jesus said unto them, He that I said unto you also from the beginning.
I have many things to say and to judge regarding you, but he that sent me is true; and those things which I have heard of him, I speak in the world.
But they did not understand that he spoke to them of the Father.
Then Jesus said unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then ye shall know that I AM and [that] I do nothing of myself, but as my Father has taught me, I speak these things.
And he that sent me is with me: the Father has not left me alone, for I always do those things that please him.
As he spoke these words, many believed in him.
Then Jesus said to those Jews who had believed him, If ye abide in my word, ye shall be my disciples indeed;
and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.
They answered him, We are Abraham's seed, and we have never served anyone; how sayest thou, Ye shall be set free?
Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever commits sin is the servant of sin.
And the servant does not abide in the house for ever, [but] the Son abides for ever.
If the Son therefore shall set you free, ye shall be free indeed.
I know that ye are Abraham's seed, but ye seek to kill me because my word has no place in you.
I speak that which I have seen with my Father, and ye do that which ye have seen with your father.
They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said unto them, If ye were Abraham's sons, ye would do the works of Abraham.
But now ye seek to kill me, a man that has told you the truth, which I have heard of God; Abraham did not [do] this.
Ye do the deeds of your father. Then they said to him, We are not born of fornication; we have one Father, [even] God.
Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would surely love me, for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither did I come of myself, but he sent me.
Why do ye not understand my speech? [even] because ye cannot hear my word.
Ye are of [your] father the devil, and the desires of your father ye desire to do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it.
And because I tell [you] the truth, ye do not believe me.
Which of you reproves me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me?
He that is of God hears God's words; ye therefore hear [them] not because ye are not of God.
Then the Jews answered, and said unto him, Do we not say well that thou art a Samaritan and hast a demon?
Jesus answered, I do not have a demon; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me.
And I seek not my own glory; there is one that seeks it and judges.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, If anyone keeps my word, he shall not see death forever.
Then the Jews said unto him, Now we know that thou hast a demon. Abraham died and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keeps my word, he shall not taste death forever?
Art thou greater than our father Abraham who died? and the prophets died; whom makest thou thyself?
Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing; it is my Father that glorifies me, of whom ye say that he is your God;
yet ye have not known him, but I know him; and if I should say, I do not know him, I shall be a liar like unto you; but I know him and keep his word.
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw [it] and was glad.
Then the Jews said unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?
Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I AM.
Then they took up stones to cast at him, but Jesus concealed himself and went out of the temple, and going through the midst of them, went away.: