And Jericho was completely shut up because of the sons of Israel. None went out and none came in.
And the LORD said to Joshua, See, I have given Jericho into your hand, and its king, and the mighty men of war.
And you shall go around the city, all the men of war. Go around the city once. So you shall do for six days.
And seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of ram's horns in front of the ark. And the seventh day you shall go around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets.
And it shall be when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout. And the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall go up, each man straight before him.
And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them, Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests carry seven ram's horns in front of the ark of the LORD.
And he said to the people, Pass on, and go around the city. And let him who is armed pass on in front of the ark of the LORD.
And it happened when Joshua had spoken to the people, the seven priests bearing the seven ram's horns passed on before the LORD and blew the ram's horns. And the ark of the covenant of the LORD followed them.
And the armed men went before the priests who blew with the ram's horns. And the gathering army came after the ark, as the priests were going on and blowing with the ram's horns.
And Joshua had commanded the people saying, You shall not shout nor make any noise with your voice, neither shall any word come out of your mouth until the day I tell you to shout. Then you shall shout.
And the ark of the LORD went around the city, going around it once. And they came into the camp and stayed in the camp.
And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the LORD.
And seven priests carrying seven ram's horns before the ark of the LORD went on without stopping and blew with the ram's horns. And the armed men went in front of them. But the rear guard came after the ark of the LORD as the priests were going on and blowing with the ram's horns.
And the second day they went around the city once, and returned to the camp. So they did six days.
And it happened on the seventh day they rose early, at the dawning of the day, and circled the city in the same way seven times. Only on that day did they go around the city seven times.
And it happened, at the seventh time, when the priest blew with the ram's horns, Joshua said to the people, Shout! For the LORD has given you the city!
And the city shall be devoted to the LORD, it and all in it. Only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent.
And you surely shall keep clear of from the cursed thing, lest you make yourselves cursed when you take of the cursed things, and make the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it.
But all the silver and gold, and vessels of bronze and iron, are devoted to the LORD. They shall come into the treasury of the LORD.
And the people shouted when the priests blew with the ram's horns. And it happened when the people heard the sound of the ram's horns, and the people shouted with a great shout, the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, each man straight before him. And they took the city.
And they completely destroyed all in the city, both man and woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of the sword.
And Joshua had said to the two men who had spied out the country, Go into the harlot's house, and bring the woman out from there, and all that she has, as you swore to her.
And the young men who were spies went in and brought Rahab out, and her father and her mother, and her brothers, and all that she had. And they brought out all her kindred and set them outside the camp of Israel.
And they burned the city with fire, and all that was in it. Only the silver and the gold, and the vessels of bronze and iron, they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD.
And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her father's household, and all that she had. And she lives in Israel to this day, because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.
And Joshua charged them at that time, saying, Cursed before the LORD is the man who rises up and builds this city of Jericho. He shall lay the foundation of it in his first-born, and in his youngest son he shall set up the gates of it.
And the LORD was with Joshua. And his fame was in all the country.