Give thanks to the Lord for his goodness for his kindness endures forever.
Let this be the song of the ransomed, whom the Lord has redeemed from distress,
gathering them from all lands, east, west, north, and south.
In the wastes of the desert some wandered, finding no way to a city inhabited.
Full of hunger and thirst, their spirit failed.
Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them from their distresses,
guiding them straight on the way, till they reached an inhabited city.
Let them thank the Lord for his kindness, for his wonderful deeds for people;
for the thirsty he satisfies, and the hungry he fills with good things.
Some sat in darkness and gloom prisoners in irons and misery,
for rebelling against God’s word, and spurning the Most High’s counsel.
Their heart was bowed with toil; there was no one to help when they stumbled.
Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them from their distresses.
Out of darkness and gloom he brought them, and burst their chains.
Let them praise the Lord for his kindness, for his wonderful deeds for people.
For he shattered the gates of bronze, and broke bars of iron.
Some were sick from their wicked ways, and suffering because of their sins.
All manner of food they hated; they had come to the gates of death.
Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them from their distresses.
He sent his word and healed them, and delivered their life from the pit.
Let them praise the Lord for his kindness, for his wonderful deeds for people.
Let them offer to him thankofferings, and with joy tell what things he has done.
Some crossed the sea in ships, doing business in great waters.
They have seen what the Lord can do, and his wonderful deeds on the deep.
At his command rose a tempest, which lifted the waves on high.
Up to heaven they went, down to the depths; their courage failed them.
They staggered and reeled like drunkards; all their skills useless.
Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them from their distresses.
He stilled the storm to a whisper, and the waves of the sea were hushed.
They were glad, because it was quiet; they were led to the haven they longed for.
Let them praise the Lord, for his kindness, for his wonderful deeds for people.
Where the people assemble, extol him, and praise him in council of elders.
He turns streams into a wilderness, springs of water into thirsty land,
fruitful land into a salt waste, because of the sin of the people.
A desert he makes pools of water, a land of drought into springs of water.
He settles the hungry therein, they establish a city to live in.
They sow fields and plant vineyards, which furnish a fruitful yield.
By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he lets not their cattle decrease.
Yet when they are bowed and diminished by oppression, misfortune, or sorrow,
he pours contempt upon princes, and on trackless wastes leads them astray
He lifts the poor out of misery, and makes families fruitful as flocks.
At this sight shall the upright be glad, and all wicked mouths shall be stopped.
Let those who are wise observe this, and consider the love of the Lord