Next, after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem, taking with me Barnabas and Titus.
And I went up according to revelation, and I debated with them about the Gospel that I am preaching among the Gentiles, but away from those who were pretending to be something, lest perhaps I might run, or have run, in vain.
But even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Gentile, was not compelled to be circumcised,
but only because of false brothers, who were brought in unknowingly. They entered secretly to spy on our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might reduce us to servitude.
We did not yield to them in subjection, even for an hour, in order that the truth of the Gospel would remain with you,
and away from those who were pretending to be something. (Whatever they might have been once, it means nothing to me. God does not accept the reputation of a man.) And those who were claiming to be something had nothing to offer me.
But it was to the contrary, since they had seen that the Gospel to the uncircumcised was entrusted to me, just as the Gospel to the circumcised was entrusted to Peter.
For he who was working the Apostleship to the circumcised in Peter, was also working in me among the Gentiles.
And so, when they had acknowledged the grace that was given to me, James and Cephas and John, who seemed like pillars, gave to me and to Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we would go to the Gentiles, while they went to the circumcised,
asking only that we should be mindful of the poor, which was the very thing that I also was solicitous to do.
But when Cephas had arrived at Antioch, I stood against him to his face, because he was blameworthy.
For before certain ones arrived from James, he ate with the Gentiles. But when they had arrived, he drew apart and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision.
And the other Jews consented to his pretense, so that even Barnabas was led by them into that falseness.
But when I had seen that they were not walking correctly, by the truth of the Gospel, I said to Cephas in front of everyone: “If you, while you are a Jew, are living like the Gentiles and not the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to keep the customs of the Jews?”
By nature, we are Jews, and not of the Gentiles, sinners.
And we know that man is not justified by the works of the law, but only by the faith of Jesus Christ. And so we believe in Christ Jesus, in order that we may be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law. For no flesh will be justified by the works of the law.
But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves are also found to be sinners, would then Christ be the minister of sin? Let it not be so!
For if I rebuild the things that I have destroyed, I establish myself as a prevaricator.
For through the law, I have become dead to the law, so that I may live for God. I have been nailed to the cross with Christ.
I live; yet now, it is not I, but truly Christ, who lives in me. And though I live now in the flesh, I live in the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and who delivered himself for me.
I do not reject the grace of God. For if justice is through the law, then Christ died in vain.