And Solomon the son of David made himself strong over his kingdom, and Jehovah his God was with him, and made him exceedingly great.
And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of the thousands, and of the hundreds, and to judges, and to every honorable one of all Israel, heads of the fathers;
and they went, Solomon and all the congregation with him, to the high place that in Gibeon, for there was God's tabernacle of the congregation that Moses, the servant of Jehovah, had made in the wilderness.
But David had brought up the ark of God from Kirjath-jearim, when David made ready for it, for he had stretched out a tent for it in Jerusalem;
and the altar of bronze that Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, he put it before the tabernacle of Jehovah; and Solomon and the congregation sought to it.
And Solomon went up there on the bronze altar before Jehovah, that was at the tabernacle of the congregation, and offered on it a thousand burnt offerings.
In that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, Ask what I shall give to you.
And Solomon said to God, You have acted with great kindness with my father David, and have made me king in his place.
Now, O Jehovah God, Your word with my father David is confirmed, for You have made me to reign over a people as many as the dust of the earth.
Now give to me wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people; for who can judge this Your great people?
And God said to Solomon, Because this has been in your heart, that you have not asked riches, treasures, and honor, and the life of those who hate you, and also have not asked many days, but have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself that you may judge My people, over whom I have made you reign;
the wisdom and the knowledge are given to you, and riches, and treasures, and honor I will give to you, such as none of the kings who were before you has had, and after you it shall not be so.
And Solomon came to Jerusalem from the high place in Gibeon, from before the tabernacle of the congregation, and reigned over Israel.
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen; and he had a thousand, four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen; and he placed them in the chariot cities, and with the king in Jerusalem.
And the king made the silver and the gold in Jerusalem as stones, and he made the cedars as sycamores that are in the low country for abundance.
And the horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt and out of Kue, the king's merchants took them from Kue at a price;
and they came up and brought out from Egypt a chariot for six hundred silver pieces, and a horse for a hundred and fifty; and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of Syria, they brought them out by their hand.