Then having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilements of flesh and of spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Make room for us. We wronged no one, we corrupted no one, we overreached no one.
I do not speak to condemnation, for I have said before that you are in our hearts, for us to die together and to live together.
My boldness toward you is great. My boasting on your behalf is much. I have been filled with comfort; I overflow with joy on all our trouble.
For, indeed, we coming into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but being troubled in every way, with fightings on the outside and fears on the inside.
But He who comforts the lowly comforted us by the presence of Titus.
And not only by his presence, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted over you, telling us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so as for me to rejoice more.
For even if I grieved you in the letter, I do not regret, if indeed I did regret, for I see that letter grieved you for an hour.
Now I rejoice, not that you were grieved, but that you were grieved to repentance. For you were grieved according to God, that you might suffer loss in nothing by us.
For the grief according to God works repentance to salvation, not to be regretted. But the grief of the world works out death.
For behold this same thing, you being grieved according to God, how much it worked out earnestness in you, but also defense, but also indignation, but also fear, but also desire, but also zeal, but also vengeance! In everything you commended yourselves to be clear in the matter.
Then even if I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of him who did wrong, nor for the sake of him having suffered wrong, but for the sake of revealing our earnestness on your behalf, for you before God.
For this reason we have been comforted in your comfort, and we rather rejoice more abundantly over the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by all of you.
Because if I have boasted anything to him about you, I was not ashamed. But as we spoke all things in truth to you, so also our boasting as to Titus became truth.
And his tender feelings are abundant toward you, remembering the obedience of all of you, as you received him with fear and trembling.
Therefore, I rejoice, that in everything I am fully assured in you.