And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying:
Speak to the sons of Israel saying, When a person sins against any of the commands of Jehovah through ignorance, which is not to be done, and shall do any one of them;
if the priest who is anointed sins, resulting in guilt to the people, then he shall bring near for his sin which he has sinned a bullock, a son of the herd, a perfect one, to Jehovah for a sin offering.
And he shall bring the bullock into the opening of the tabernacle of the congregation, before the face of Jehovah. And he shall lay his hand on the head of the bullock and shall slaughter the bullock before the face of Jehovah.
And the priest who is anointed shall take of the blood of the bullock and shall bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle of the blood seven times before the face of Jehovah, at the front of the veil of the holy place.
And the priest shall put of the blood on the horns of the altar of sweet incense, at the opening of the tabernacle of the congregation, before the face of Jehovah.
And he shall lift up from it the fat which covers over the inward parts, and all the fat on the inward parts,
and the two kidneys and the fat on them, beside the loins, and he shall remove the fold on the liver beside the kidneys.
As it is raised up from the sacrifice of the peace offerings of the bullock, the priest shall burn them as incense on the altar of burnt offering.
And the skin of the bullock, and all its flesh with its head, and with its legs, and the inward parts, and its dung,
he shall bring out all the bullock to the outside of the camp, to a clean place, to the place of the pouring of ashes; and he shall burn it on the wood with fire; it shall be burned at the place of pouring of ashes.
And if the whole company of Israel shall err, and the thing has been hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they do that which is not to be done to any of all the commands of Jehovah, and are guilty;
When the sin shall be known, that which they have sinned against it, then the congregation shall bring near a bullock, a son of the herd, for a sin offering. And they shall bring it in front of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bullock before the face of Jehovah. And they shall slaughter the bullock before the face of Jehovah.
And the priest who is anointed shall bring in of the blood of the bullock to the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and shall sprinkle seven times before the face of Jehovah, at the front of the veil.
And he shall put of the blood on the horns of the altar before the face of Jehovah in the tabernacle of the congregation. And he shall pour out all the blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And he shall lift up all its fat from it and shall burn it as incense on the altar.
And he shall do with the bullock as he has done to the bullock of the sin offering, so he shall do to it. And the priest shall atone for them; and it shall be forgiven them.
And he shall bring the bullock to the outside of the camp, and he shall burn it as he burned the first bullock; it is a sin offering of the congregation.
When a ruler sins and has acted against one of all the commands of Jehovah his God, which not is to be done, through ignorance, and is guilty;
or his sin which he has sinned shall be made known to him, then he shall bring his offering, a buck of the goats, a male, a perfect one;
and he shall lay his hand on the head of the goat and shall slaughter it in the place where he slaughters the burnt offering, before the face of Jehovah; it is a sin offering.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering, and with his finger he shall put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and he shall pour out its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
And he shall burn it as incense on the altar, with all its fat, as the fat of the sacrifice of the peace offerings. And the priest shall atone for him because of his sin; and it shall be forgiven him.
And if any person of the people of the land sins through ignorance by doing that which is not to be done, against one of the commands of Jehovah, and is guilty;
or his sin which he has sinned shall be made known to him, then he shall bring his offering, a ewe of the goats, a perfect one, a female, for his sin which he has sinned;
then he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and shall slaughter the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.
And the priest shall take of its blood with his finger and shall put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering. And he shall pour out all its blood at the base of the altar;
and he shall take off all its fat, as has been taken off the sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall burn it as incense on the altar for a soothing fragrance to Jehovah. And the priest shall atone for him, and it is forgiven him.
And if he brings a lamb as his offering, a female, a perfect one, he shall bring it,
and he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering, and he shall slaughter it for a sin offering in the place where he slaughters the burnt offering.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the altar.
And he shall take off all its fat, as is taken off the fat of the lamb from the sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall burn them as incense on the altar, on the fire offerings of Jehovah. And the priest shall atone for him for his sin which he has sinned; and it is forgiven him.