Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it.
And say to it, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against thee, and I will make thee a desolation and an astonishment.
I will lay thy cities waste, and thou shall be desolate. And thou shall know that I am Jehovah.
Because thou have had a perpetual enmity, and have given over the sons of Israel to the power of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time of the iniquity of the end,
therefore, as I live, says the lord Jehovah, I will prepare thee to blood, and blood shall pursue thee. Since thou have not hated blood, therefore blood shall pursue thee.
Thus I will make mount Seir an astonishment and a desolation, and I will cut off from it him who passes through and him who returns.
And I will fill its mountains with its slain. In thy hills and in thy valleys and in all thy watercourses they shall fall who are slain with the sword.
I will make thee a perpetual desolation, and thy cities shall not be inhabited. And ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
Because thou have said, These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it, whereas Jehovah was there,
therefore, as I live, says the lord Jehovah, I will do according to thine anger, and according to thine envy which thou have shown out of thy hatred against them. And I will make myself known among them when I shall judge thee.
And thou shall know that I, Jehovah, have heard all thy revilings which thou have spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate. They are given us to devour.
And ye have magnified yourselves against me with your mouth, and have multiplied your words against me. I have heard it.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: When the whole earth rejoices, I will make thee desolate.
As thou rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so I will do to thee. Thou shall be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Edom, even all of it, and they shall know that I am Jehovah.