A good name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth.
It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart.
Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of delight.
It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.
For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.
Surely oppression makes a wise man mad; and a gift destroys the heart.
Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
Be not hasty in your spirit to be angry: for anger rests in the bosom of fools.
Say not you, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for you do not enquire wisely concerning this.
Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to them that see the sun.
For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom gives life to them that have it.
Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he has made crooked?
In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also has set the one opposite to the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.
All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just man that perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongs his life in his wickedness.
Be not righteous over much; neither make yourself over wise: why should you destroy yourself ?
Be not over much wicked, neither be you foolish: why should you die before your time?
It is good that you should take hold of this; yea, also from this withdraw not your hand: for he that fears God shall come out of them all.
Wisdom strengthens the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city.
For there is not a just man upon earth, that does good, and sins not.
Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken; lest you hear your servant curse you:
For oftentimes also your own heart knows that you yourself likewise have cursed others.
All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.
That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?
I applied mine heart to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness:
And I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoso pleases God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.
Behold, this have I found, says the preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account:
Which yet my soul seeks, but I find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.
Lo, this only have I found, that God has made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.