Before the feast day of the Passover, Jesus knew that the hour was approaching when he would pass from this world to the Father. And since he had always loved his own who were in the world, he loved them unto the end.
And when the meal had taken place, when the devil had now put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray him,
knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he came from God and was going to God,
he rose up from the meal, and he set aside his vestments, and when he had received a towel, he wrapped it around himself.
Next he put water into a shallow bowl, and he began to wash the feet of the disciples and to wipe them with the towel with which he was wrapped.
And then he came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to him, “Lord, would you wash my feet?”
Jesus responded and said to him: “What I am doing, you do not now understand. But you shall understand it afterward.”
Peter said to him, “You shall never wash my feet!” Jesus answered him, “If I do not wash you, you will have no place with me.”
Simon Peter said to him, “Then Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head!”
Jesus said to him: “He who is washed need only wash his feet, and then he will be entirely clean. And you are clean, but not all.”
For he knew which one would betray him. For this reason, he said, “You are not all clean.”
And so, after he washed their feet and received his vestments, when he had sat down at table again, he said to them: “Do you know what I have done for you?
You call me Teacher and Lord, and you speak well: for so I am.
Therefore, if I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash the feet of one another.
For I have given you an example, so that just as I have done for you, so also should you do.
Amen, amen, I say to you, the servant is not greater than his Lord, and the apostle is not greater than he who sent him.
If you understand this, you shall be blessed if you will do it.
I am not speaking about all of you. I know those whom I have chosen. But this is so that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with me shall lift up his heel against me.’
And I tell you this now, before it happens, so that when it has happened, you may believe that I am.
Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever receives anyone whom I send, receives me. And whoever receives me, receives him who sent me.”
When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit. And he bore witness by saying: “Amen, amen, I say to you, that one among you shall betray me.”
Therefore, the disciples looked around at one another, uncertain about whom he spoke.
And leaning against the bosom of Jesus was one of his disciples, the one whom Jesus loved.
Therefore, Simon Peter motioned to this one and said to him, “Who is it that he is speaking about?”
And so, leaning against the chest of Jesus, he said to him, “Lord, who is it?”
Jesus responded, “It is he to whom I shall extend the dipped bread.” And when he had dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon.
And after the morsel, Satan entered into him. And Jesus said to him, “What you are going to do, do quickly.”
Now none of those sitting at table knew why he had said this to him.
For some were thinking that, because Judas held the purse, that Jesus had told him, “Buy those things which are needed by us for the feast day,” or that he might give something to the needy.
Therefore, having accepted the morsel, he went out immediately. And it was night.
Then, when he had gone out, Jesus said: “Now the Son of man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him.
If God has been glorified in him, then God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him without delay.
Little sons, for a brief while, I am with you. You shall seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going, you are not able to go,’ so also I say to you now.
I give you a new commandment: Love one another. Just as I have loved you, so also must you love one another.
By this, all shall recognize that you are my disciples: if you will have love for one another.”
Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, where are you going?” Jesus responded: “Where I am going, you are not able to follow me now. But you shall follow afterward.”
Peter said to him: “Why am I unable to follow you now? I will lay down my life for you!”
Jesus answered him: “You will lay down your life for me? Amen, amen, I say to you, the rooster will not crow, until you deny me three times.”