Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
Honor your father and your mother, which is the first commandment with a promise,
that it may be well with you, and that you may live long on the earth.
And you fathers, do not provoke your children to anger: but bring them up in the instruction and discipline of the Lord.
Servants, be subject to your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in the simplicity of your heart, as to the Christ;
not with eye-service, as pleasing men, but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul;
with good will doing service as to the Lord, and not as to men;
knowing that whatever good any one does, the same shall he receive from the Lord, whether he is a servant or a freeman.
And you masters, do the same things to them, leaving off threatening, knowing that you yourselves have a master in heaven, and there is no respect of persons with him.
Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in his mighty power.
Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand firm against the wiles of the devil:
for our conflict is not with flesh and blood, but with the principalities, with the authorities, with the rulers of the darkness of this world, with the wicked spirits in the heavenly regions.
Therefore, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand them in the evil day, and having overcome them all, to stand firm.
Stand, therefore, having your loins girded about with truth, and wearing the breastplate of righteousness,
and having your feet shod with that preparation for defense supplied by the gospel of peace;
taking up, over all, the shield of faith, with which you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one:
and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:
praying with all prayer and supplication, at all times, in the Spirit; and to this end being watchful in all perseverance, and supplication for all the saints:
and for me, that speech may be given me, in opening my mouth with boldness, that I may make known the mystery of the gospel,
for which I am an ambassador in chains, that in it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
But that you, also, may know my affairs, how I do, Tychicus, my beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make known all things to you;
him I have sent to you for this very purpose, that you may know our affairs, and that he may comfort your hearts.
Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity.