In that day the LORD with His great and fierce and strong sword shall punish the sea-monster, the darting serpent, the sea-monster, that twisting serpent; and He shall kill the monster in the sea.
In that day sing to her, a delightful vineyard.
I the LORD keep it; I will water it every moment; lest any hurt it, I will keep it night and day.
Fury is not in Me; who would set the briers and thorns against Me in battle? I would step through it; I would burn it at once.
Or let them take hold of My strength, that he may make peace with Me; and he shall make peace with Me.
He shall cause those who come from Jacob to take root; Israel shall blossom and bud, and fill the face of the world with fruit.
Has He stricken him, as He struck those who struck Him? Is He slain according to the slaughter of the slain by Him?
By driving her away, you will contend with her; by sending her away, You punished her. He takes away by His rough wind, in the day of the east wind.
By this therefore shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged; and this is all the fruit to take away his sin; when he makes all the stones of the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in pieces, the Asherahs and sun-pillars shall not stand up.
Yet the fortified city shall be wasted, and the dwelling forsaken and left like a wilderness; there shall the calf feed, and there shall he lie down and eat up its branches.
When its branches are dried up, they shall be broken off; the women come and set them on fire; for it is a people of no understanding. Therefore His Maker will not have mercy on them, and He who formed them will not favor them.
And it shall be, in that day the LORD shall thresh from the stream of the river Euphrates to the brook of Egypt, and you shall be gathered one by one, O sons of Israel.
And it shall be, in that day the great ram's horn shall be blown, and those perishing in the land of Assyria shall come, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt shall come and shall worship the LORD in the holy mountain at Jerusalem.