And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth [month], in the fifth [day] of the month, [as] I sat in my house, and the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord GOD fell there upon me.
And I saw, and behold a likeness as the appearance of fire; from the appearance of his loins downward was fire; and from his loins upward, as the appearance of brightness, as the colour of amber.
And that likeness put forth his hand and took me by the locks of my head; and the Spirit lifted me up between the heaven and the earth and brought me in [the] visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door of the inner gate that looks toward the north where the habitation of the image of jealousy [was], which provokes to jealousy.
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel [was] there like the vision that I saw in the plain.
Then he said unto me, Son of man, lift up thine eyes now the way toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes the way toward the north, and behold northward at the gate of the altar this image of jealousy in the entry.
He said furthermore unto me, Son of man, seest thou what they do? [even] the great abominations that the house of Israel commits here to cause me to go far away from my sanctuary? but turn thee yet again, [and] thou shalt see greater abominations.
And he brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold a hole in the wall.
Then said he unto me, Son of man, dig now in the wall; and when I had dug in the wall, behold a door.
And he said unto me, Go in and see the wicked abominations that they do here.
So I went in and saw; and behold every form of serpent and beasts; the abomination and all the idols of the house of Israel portrayed upon the wall round about.
And there stood before them seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan, each man with his censer in his hand; and a thick cloud of incense went up.
Then said he unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen what the elders of the house of Israel do in the dark, each man in the chambers of his imagery? for they say, The LORD does not see us; the LORD has forsaken the earth.
He also said unto me: Turn thee yet again, [and] thou shalt see greater abominations that they do.
Then he brought me to the entrance of the door of the LORD'S house which [is] toward the north; and, behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz.
Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen [this], O son of man? turn thee yet again, [and] thou shalt see greater abominations than these.
And he brought me into the inner court of the LORD'S house, and, behold, at the entrance of the temple of the LORD, between the porch and the altar, [were] about twenty-five men with their backs toward the temple of the LORD and their faces toward the east; and they worshipped the sun toward the east.
Then he said unto me, Hast thou seen [this], O son of man? Is it a light thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominations which they commit here? For after they have filled the land with evil and have returned to provoke me to anger; behold, they put the stench to my nose.
Therefore I will also deal in fury: my eye shall not forgive, neither will I have mercy: and they shall cry in my ears with a loud voice; [yet] I will not hear them.: