In those days Hezekiah was sick to death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, Set thy house in order, for thou shall die, and not live.
Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed to Jehovah, saying,
Remember now, O Jehovah, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept greatly.
And it came to pass, before Isaiah was gone out into the middle part of the city, that the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
Turn back, and say to Hezekiah the prince of my people, Thus says Jehovah, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears. Behold, I will heal thee. On the third day thou shall go up to the house of Jehovah.
And I will add to thy days fifteen years. And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria. And I will defend this city for my own sake, and for my servant David's sake.
And Isaiah said, Take a cake of figs. And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What shall be the sign that Jehovah will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of Jehovah the third day?
And Isaiah said, This shall be the sign to thee from Jehovah, that Jehovah will do the thing that he has spoken: Shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?
And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go forward ten steps. No, but let the shadow return backward ten steps.
And Isaiah the prophet cried to Jehovah, and he brought the shadow ten steps backward, by which it had gone down on the dial of Ahaz.
At that time Berodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
And Hezekiah hearkened to them, and showed them all the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious oil, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah did not show them.
Then Isaiah the prophet came to king Hezekiah, and said to him, What did these men say, and from where did they come to thee? And Hezekiah said, They have come from a far country, even from Babylon.
And he said, What have they seen in thy house? And Hezekiah answered, They have seen all that is in my house. There is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them.
And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of Jehovah.
Behold, the days come that all that is in thy house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store to this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says Jehovah.
And of thy sons who shall issue from thee, whom thou shall beget, they shall take away. And they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.
Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, The word of Jehovah which thou have spoken is good. He said moreover, Is it not so, if peace and truth shall be in my days?
Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made the pool, and the conduit, and brought water into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.