Then Agrippa said to Paul: You are permitted to speak for yourself. Then Paul stretched forth his hand, and answered for himself.
I think myself happy, King Agrippa, because I shall this day make my defense before you, concerning all things of which I am accused by the Jews;
especially, since you are acquainted with all the customs and questions that are among the Jews. For this reason, I beseech you to hear me patiently.
My course of life from my youth, which, from the beginning, was among my own nation in Jerusalem, know all the Jews;
who, knowing me from the first, could testify, if they would, that, according to the strictest sect of our religion, I lived a Pharisee.
And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers;
to which promise our twelve tribes, zealously serving night and day, hope to come: on account of which hope, King Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews.
What? Is it thought a thing incredible among you, that God raises the dead?
I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things against the name of Jesus the Nazarene.
And this I did in Jerusalem; and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests: and when they were put to death, I gave my vote against them.
And I punished them often in every synagogue, and compelled them to speak impiously; and, being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
While I was engaged in these things, and was going to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests,
at midday, while I was on the road, I saw, O King, a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and those who journeyed with me.
And when we had all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking to me, and saying, in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.
And I said, Who art thou, Lord? He replied, I am Jesus, whom you persecute.
But arise, and stand upon your feet; for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to make you a minister and a witness of the things which you have seen, and of those in which I will appear to you,
delivering you from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom now I send you,
in order to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the authority of Satan to God, that they may receive remission of sins, and an inheritance among the sanctified, by faith in me.
Wherefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision;
but announced first to those in Damascus and Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works worthy of repentance.
For these reasons the Jews seized me in the temple, and endeavored to kill me.
Having, therefore, obtained help from God, I have stood till this day, testifying both to small and to great, saying nothing else than the things which the prophets and Moses did say should come to pass:
that Christ should suffer, and that he first, by his resurrection from the dead, should show light to the people, and to the Gentiles.
And as he spoke these things in his defense, Festus said, with a loud voice; Paul, you are mad; much learning drives you to madness.
But he replied: I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but speak forth the words of truth and soberness.
For the king has knowledge of these things, before whom, also, I speak with boldness; for I am persuaded that none of these things have escaped his notice; for this was not done in a corner.
King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe.
Then Agrippa said to Paul: You almost persuade me to be a Christian.
And Paul replied: I could pray to God, that not only you, but also all that hear me to-day, were both almost and altogether such as I am, except these bonds.
And the king arose, and the governor, and Bernice, and those who sat with them.
And when they had withdrawn, they conversed with one another, saying: This man does nothing worthy of death or of bonds.
And Agrippa said to Festus: This man could have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed to Cæsar