In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judaea
and saying, Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
For this is he that was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, who said, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.
And the same John had his raiment of camel's hair and a leathern girdle about his loins, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem and all Judaea and all the region round about Jordan went out to him
and were baptized of him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto them, O generation of vipers, who taught you to flee from the wrath to come?
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance
and think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham as [our] father, for I say unto you that God is able to raise up children unto Abraham of these stones.
And now the axe is also laid unto the root of the trees; therefore, every tree which does not bring forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire.
I indeed baptize you in water unto repentance, but he that comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear; he shall baptize you in [the] Holy Spirit and fire,
whose fan [is] in his hand; and he will thoroughly purge his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the storehouse, but he will burn up the chaff with fire that shall never be quenched.
Then Jesus came from Galilee to Jordan unto John to be baptized of him.
But John resisted him much, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?
And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer [it to be so] now, for thus it is expedient for us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him.
And Jesus, after he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water; and, behold, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting upon him;
and, behold, a voice from the heavens, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.: