And He also spoke a parable to them to teach it is always right to pray, and not to faint,
saying, A certain judge was in a certain city, not fearing God, nor respecting man.
And a widow was in that city. And she came to Him, saying, Avenge me of my adversary.
And he would not do so for a time. But afterward he said within himself, Though I do not fear God nor regard man,
yet because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, that she not wear me down in the end.
And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge says.
And shall not God avenge His own elect who cry day and night to Him, though He has been long-suffering over them?
I say to you that He will avenge them speedily. Yet when the Son of man comes, shall He find faith on the earth?
And He spoke this parable to certain ones who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and despised others:
Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a tax-collector.
The Pharisee stood and prayed within himself in this way: God, I thank You that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax-collector.
I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
And standing afar off, the tax-collector would not even lift up his eyes to Heaven, but struck on his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner!
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself shall be abased, and he who humbles himself shall be exalted.
And they also brought infants to Him, that He might touch them. But when the disciples saw, they, rebuked them.
But Jesus called them and said, Allow the little children to come to Me, and forbid them not. For of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, Whoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no way enter into it.
And a certain ruler asked Him, saying, Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? None is good except One, God.
You know the commandments: Do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and your mother.
And he said, I have kept all these from my youth up.
And when Jesus heard these things, He said to him, Yet you lack one thing. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you shall have treasure in Heaven. And come, follow Me.
And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich.
And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, He said, How hardly those having riches shall enter into the kingdom of God!
For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich one to enter into the kingdom of God.
And the ones who heard said, And who can be saved?
And He said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.
And Peter said, Lo, we have left all and have followed You.
And He said to them, Truly I say to you, There is no one who has left house, or parents, or brothers, or wife, or children for the sake of the kingdom of God,
who shall not receive many times more in this present time, and in the world to come everlasting life.
And He took the Twelve and said to them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man will be accomplished.
For He will be delivered to the nations and will be mocked and insulted and spat on.
And they will scourge Him and put Him to death, and the third day He will rise again.
And they did not understand any of these things. And this saying was hidden from them, nor did they know the things which were spoken.
And as He came near Jericho, it happened that a certain blind man sat by the roadside begging.
And hearing the crowd pass by, he asked what it meant.
And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth passed by.
And he cried, saying, Jesus, Son of David! Have mercy on me.
And they who were in front rebuked him that he should be quiet. But he cried so much the more, Son of David! Have mercy on me.
And Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought to Him. And when he had come near, He asked him,
saying, What do you desire that I should do to you? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said to him, Receive your sight! Your faith has saved you.
And immediately he received his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And when they saw, all the people gave praise to God.