And Peter and John were going up on the same day into the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth.
And a certain man, being lame from his mother's womb, was being carried, whom day by day they put at the door of the temple, being called Beautiful, to ask alms from those going into the temple;
who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked alms.
And with John, looking intently toward him, Peter said, Look to us!
And he paid heed to them, expecting to receive something from them.
But Peter said, There is no silver and gold to me, but what I have, this I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazaraean, rise up and walk!
And taking him by the right hand, he raised him up. And immediately his feet and ankle-bones were made firm.
And leaping up, he stood and walked, and went with them into the temple, walking and leaping, and praising God.
And all the people saw him walking, and praising God.
And they recognized him, that it was the one who was sitting for alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple. And they were filled with amazement and ecstasy at the thing that happened to him.
And the healed lame one was holding to Peter and John, and all the people ran together to them on the porch called Solomon's, greatly amazed.
And seeing this , Peter answered to the people, Men, Israelites, why do you marvel at this one? Or why do you stare at us, as if by our own power or godliness we have made him to walk?
The "God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob," "the God of our fathers," Ex. 3:15 glorified His child Jesus, whom you delivered up, and denied Him in the presence of Pilate, that one having decided to set Him free.
But you denied the Holy and Just One , and asked for a man, a murderer, to be granted to you.
And the Author of Life you killed, whom God raised up from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And on the faith of His name, this one whom you see and know was made firm by His name, and the faith which came through Him gave to him this complete soundness before you all.
And now, brothers, I know that you acted according to ignorance, as also did your rulers.
But what things God before announced through the mouth of all His prophets, that the Christ should suffer, He fulfilled in this manner.
Therefore, repent, and convert, for the blotting out of your sins, so that times of refreshing may come from the face of the Lord,
and that He may send forth the One before proclaimed to you, Jesus Christ,
whom Heaven truly needs to receive until the times of restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of all His holy prophets from the age past.
For Moses indeed said to the fathers, " The Lord your God will raise up to you a Prophet from among your brothers, One like me; you shall hear Him according to all things," whatever He may speak to you. See Deut. 18:15-16, 19
And it shall be that of every soul, whoever should not hear that Prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.
And also all the prophets, from Samuel and those following after, as many as spoke, also before announced these days.
You are sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God appointed to our fathers, saying to Abraham, "Even in your Seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed." Gen. 22:18
Having raised up His child Jesus, God sent Him first to you, blessing you in turning away each one from your iniquities.