And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog and say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
And I will turn you back and lead you on. And I will bring you up from the recesses of the north, and will bring you on the mountains of Israel.
And I will strike your bow out of your left hand, and I will cause your arrows to fall out of your right hand.
You shall fall on the mountains of Israel, you and all your bands, and the people with you. I will give you for food to the birds of prey, a bird of every wing, and to the beasts of the field.
You shall fall on the face of the field, for I have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And I will send a fire on Magog, and on the secure inhabitants of the coasts. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
And I will make My holy name known in the midst of My people Israel. And I will not let My holy name be profaned any more. And the nations shall know that I am Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel.
Behold! It is coming, and it shall be done, declares the Lord Jehovah. That is the day of which I have spoken.
And the inhabitants of the cities of Israel shall go out and shall set afire and burn the weapons, even the shield and the buckler, the bow and the arrows, and the hand staff, and the spears. And they shall burn them with fire seven years.
And they shall not take wood out of the field and shall not cut down out of the forest. For they shall burn the weapons with fire. And they shall plunder those who plundered them, and rob those who robbed them, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And it will be on that day, I will give to Gog a place there, a grave in Israel, the valley of those who pass by, east of the sea. And it shall stop those who pass by. And they shall bury Gog and all his multitude there, and they shall call it The Valley of the Multitude of Gog.
And the house of Israel shall bury them, in order to cleanse the land, seven months.
And the people of the land shall bury. And it shall be for a name to them, the day when I am glorified, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And they shall separate men who continually pass through the land, burying those who passed through, who remain on the face of the earth, to cleanse it. At the end of seven months, they shall make a search.
And as they pass, those who pass through the land, and any man sees a bone, then he shall build a post beside it, until the buriers have buried it in The Valley of the Multitude of Gog.
And also the name of the city is The Multitude. And they shall cleanse the land.
And you, son of man, So says the Lord Jehovah: Say to the bird of every wing, and to every beast of the field: Gather yourselves and come, collect yourselves from all around to My sacrifice which I sacrifice for you, a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel, so that you may eat flesh and drink blood.
You shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the rulers of the earth, of rams, lambs, goats, and bulls, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
And you shall eat fat until satiated, and drink blood until drunkenness, of My sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.
And you shall be satiated at My table with horses and chariots, and mighty men, all the men of war, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And I will put My glory among the nations, and all the nations shall see My judgments which I have done, and My hand that I have laid on them.
So the house of Israel shall know that I am Jehovah their God, from that day and onward.
And the nations shall know that the house of Israel was exiled for their iniquity. Because they betrayed Me, so I hid My face from them and gave them into the hand of their enemies. And they fell by the sword, all of them.
According to their uncleanness and according to their sins, I have done to them, and have hidden My face from them.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Now I will return the captivity of Jacob and will have mercy on all the house of Israel. And I will be jealous for My holy name.
And also after they have borne their shame, and all their treachery which they have done against Me, when they dwell on their land securely, and no one terrifies;
when I have returned them from the peoples, and gathered them out of the hand of their enemies, and am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations,
then they shall know that I am Jehovah their God who exiled them among the nations. But I have gathered them to their own land and have not left any of them there.
And I will not any more hide My face from them, for I have poured out My Spirit on the house of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah.