These are the iourneyes of the children of Israel, which went out of the land of Egypt according to their bands vnder the hand of Moses and Aaron.
And Moses wrote their going out by their iourneies according to ye commandement of the Lord: so these are ye iourneies of their going out.
Nowe they departed from Rameses the first moneth, euen the fifteenth day of the first moneth, on the morowe after the Passeouer: and the children of Israel went out with an hie hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.
(For the Egyptians buried all their first borne, which the Lord had smitten among them: vpon their gods also the Lord did execution.)
And the children of Israel remoued from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth.
And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in the edge of the wildernesse.
And they remoued from Etham, and turned againe vnto Pi-hahiroth, which is before Baal-zephon, and pitched before Migdol.
And they departed from before Hahiroth, and went through the middes of the Sea into the wildernesse, and went three dayes iourney in the wildernesse of Etham, and pitched in Marah.
And they remoued from Marah, and came vnto Elim, and in Elim were twelue fountaines of water, and seuentie palme trees, and they pitched there.
And they remoued from Elim, and camped by the red Sea.
And they remoued from the red Sea, and lay in the wildernesse of Sin.
And they tooke their iourney out of the wildernesse of Sin, and set vp their tentes in Dophkah.
And they departed from Dophkah, and lay in Alush.
And they remoued from Alush, and lay in Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drinke.
And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wildernesse of Sinai.
And they remoued from the desert of Sinai, and pitched in Kibroth Hattaauah.
And they departed from Kibroth Hattaauah, and lay at Hazeroth.
And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.
And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmon Parez.
And they departed from Rimmon Parez, and pitched in Libnah.
And they remoued from Libnah, and pitched in Rissah.
And they iourneyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.
And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.
And they remoued from mount Shapher, and lay in Haradah.
And they remoued from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.
And they remoued from Makheloth, and lay in Tahath.
And they departed from Tahath, and pitched in Tarah.
And they remoued from Tarah, and pitched in Mithkah.
And they went from Mithkah, and pitched in Hashmonah.
And they departed from Hashmonah, and lay in Moseroth.
And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Bene-iaakan.
And they remoued from Bene-iaakan, and lay in Hor-hagidgad.
And they went from Hor-hagidgad, and pitched in Iotbathah.
And they remoued from Iotbathah, and lay in Ebronah.
And they departed from Ebronah, and lay in Ezion-gaber.
And they remoued from Ezion-gaber, and pitched in the wildernesse of Zin, which is Kadesh.
And they remooued from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
(And Aaron the Priest went vp into mount Hor, at the commandement of the Lord, and died there, in the fourtieth yeere after the children of Israel were come out of the lande of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth moneth.
And Aaron was an hundreth, and three and twentie yeere olde, when hee dyed in mount Hor.
And King Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the South of the land of Canaan, heard of the comming of the children of Israel)
And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.
And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.
And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.
And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Iie-abarim, in the borders of Moab.
And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibon-gad.
And they remooued from Dibon-gad, and lay in Almon-diblathaim.
And they remooued from Almon-diblathaim, and pitched in the mountaines of Abarim before Nebo.
And they departed from the mountaines of Abarim, and pitched in the plaine of Moab, by Iorden toward Iericho.
And they pitched by Iorden, from Bethieshimoth vnto Abel-shittim in the playne of Moab.
And the Lord spake vnto Moses in the playne of Moab, by Iorden towarde Iericho, saying,
Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When ye are come ouer Iorden to enter into the land of Canaan,
Ye shall then driue out all the inhabitants of the land before you, and destroy all their pictures, and breake asunder all their images of metall, and plucke downe all their hie places.
And ye shall possesse the lande and dwell therein: for I haue giue you ye land to possesse it.
And ye shall inherite the land by lot according to your families: to the more yee shall giue more inheritance, and to the fewer the lesse inheritance. Where the lot shall fall to any man, that shall be his: according to the tribes of your fathers shall ye inherite.
But if ye will not driue out the inhabitants of the land before you, then those which yee let ramaine of them, shalbe prickes in your eyes, and thornes in your sides, and shall vexe you in the land wherein ye dwell.
Moreouer, it shall come to passe, that I shall doe vnto you, as I thought to do vnto them.