And from the blue and the purple and the crimson they made woven garments for serving in the sanctuary. And they made the holy garments which were for Aaron, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and crimson, and twined bleached linen .
And they beat out sheets of gold, and cut threads to work into the midst of the blue, and into the midst of the purple, and into the midst of the crimson, and into the midst of the bleached linen , the work of an artisan.
They made shoulderpieces for it, joined together; it was joined on its two ends.
And its fastening band was on it; it was of it, like its work, gold, blue, and purple, and crimson, and twined bleached linen , as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And they made stones of onyx set in plaited work of gold, engraved with engravings of a signet, according to the names of the sons of Israel.
And he put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, memorial stones for the sons of Israel, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he made the breast pocket, a work of an artisan, like the work of the ephod: gold, blue, purple, and crimson, and twined bleached linen ;
it was square. They made the breast pocket double; its length a span and its width a span, doubled.
And they set it in four rows of stones: one row, the first row: a ruby, a topaz and an emerald.
The second row: a turquoise, a sapphire and a diamond.
And the third row: a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst.
And the fourth row: a chrysolite, an onyx, and a jasper; these set in their settings, plaited work of gold.
And the stones were according to the names of the sons of Israel; they were twelve according to their names, the engravings of a signet, each according to his name, for the twelve tribes.
And they made cords of chains on the breast pocket, a work of pure gold cords.
And they made two gold plaitings and two golden rings; and they put the two rings on the two ends of the breast pocket.
And they put the two golden cords on the two rings, on the ends of the breast pocket.
And they put the two ends of the two cords on the two plaitings. And they put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, on the front of its face.
And they made two rings of gold, and they put them on the two ends of the breast pocket, on its edge, on the inward side of the ephod.
And they made two rings of gold, and they put them on the two shoulderpieces of the ephod from beneath, on the front of its face, near its joining; from above to the band of the ephod.
And they fastened the breast pocket from its rings to the rings of the ephod with a blue ribbon, to be on the ephod band, that the breast pocket not move itself from the ephod, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he made the robe of the ephod, skilled work, all of blue.
And the mouth of the robe in its middle was like the mouth of a corselet, the edge of its mouth all around, that it might not be torn.
And they made on the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue, and purple, and crimson, bleached, twined linen .
And they made bells of pure gold, and they put the bells in the midst of the pomegranates, all around on the hem of the robe, all around, among the pomegranates,
a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate on the hem of the robe all around for ministering, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And they made the tunics of bleached linen , skilled work, for Aaron and for his sons;
also the miter was of bleached linen , and the headdress of the caps of bleached linen , and the breeches of bleached, twined linen .
And the girdle was of twined bleached linen , and blue, and purple, and crimson, the work of an embroiderer, even as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and they wrote on it the writing of the engravings of a signet: HOLINESS TO JEHOVAH.
And they put a blue ribbon on it, to fasten it on the miter from above, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And all the work of the tabernacle of the congregation was finished, And the sons of Israel did according to all which Jehovah commanded Moses; so they did.
And they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its vessels, its hooks, its boards, it bars, and its pillars, and its sockets,
and the cover of rams' skins dyed red, and the cover of dugong skins, and the veil of the covering,
the ark of the testimony, and its poles, and the mercyseat,
the table and all its vessels, and the Bread of the Presence;
the pure lampstand, its lamps the lamps of arrangement and all its vessels, and the oil of the light,
and the altar of gold, and the oil of anointing, and the incense of fragrant spices, and the screen of the door of the tabernacle,
the bronze altar and bronze grating which was to it, its poles and all its vessels, the laver and its base,
the screen of the court, its pillars and its sockets, and the screen for the opening of the court, its cords and its pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle for the tabernacle of the congregation.
the woven garments for serving in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for serving as priests.
According to all which Jehovah commanded Moses, so did the sons of Israel, all the work.
And Moses saw all the work. And, behold, they had done it; as Jehovah commanded Moses, so they had done. And Moses blessed them.