I entreat you, then, friends, by the mercies of God, to offer your bodies as a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, for this is your rational worship.
Do not conform to the fashion of this world; but be transformed by the complete change that has come over your minds, so that you may discern what God’s will is — all that is good, acceptable, and perfect.
In fulfillment of the charge with which I have been entrusted, I tell every one of you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think until he learns to think soberly — in accordance with the measure of faith that God has allotted to each.
For, just as in the human body there is a union of many parts, and each part has its own function,
so we, by our union in Christ, many though we are, form but one body, and individually we are related one to another as its parts.
Since our gifts differ in accordance with the particular charge entrusted to us, if our gift is to preach, let our preaching correspond to our faith;
if it is to minister to others, let us devote ourselves to our ministry; the teacher to their teaching,
the counselor to their counsel. Let the person who gives in charity do so with a generous heart; let the person who is in authority exercise due diligence; let the person who shows kindness do so in a cheerful spirit.
Let your love be sincere. Hate the wrong; cling to the right.
In the love of the community of the Lord's followers, be affectionate to one another; in showing respect, set an example of deference to one another;
never flagging in zeal; fervent in spirit; serving the Master;
rejoicing in your hope; steadfast under persecution; persevering in prayer;
relieving the wants of Christ’s people; devoted to hospitality.
Bless your persecutors — bless and never curse.
Rejoice with those who are rejoicing, and weep with those who are weeping.
Let the same spirit of sympathy animate you all, not a spirit of pride; enjoy the company of ordinary people. Do not think too highly of yourselves.
Never return injury for injury. Aim at doing what everyone will recognize as honorable.
If it is possible, as far as rests with you, live peaceably with everyone.
Never avenge yourselves, dear friends, but make way for the wrath of God; for scripture declares — ‘“It is for me to avenge, I will requite,” says the Lord.’
Rather — ‘If your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him to drink. By doing this you will heap coals of fire on his head.’
Never be conquered by evil, but conquer evil with good.