Thus was heave and erth fynished wyth all their apparell:
ad i ye seueth daye god ended hys worke which he had made and rested in ye seventh daye fro all his workes which he had made.
And God blessed ye seventh daye and sanctyfyed it for in it he rested from all his workes which he had created and made.
These are the generations of heaven and erth when they were created in the tyme when the LORde God created heaven and erth
and all the shrubbes of the felde be fore they were in the erthe. And all the herbes of the felde before they sprange: for the LORde God had yet sent no rayne vpon the erth nether was there yet any man to tylle the erth.
But there arose a myste out of the ground and watered all the face of the erth:
Then the LORde God shope man even of the moulde of the erth and brethed into his face the breth of lyfe. So man was made a lyvynge soule.
The LORde God also planted a garden in Eden from the begynnynge and there he sette man whom he had formed.
And the LORde God made to sprynge out of the erth all maner trees bewtyfull to the syghte and pleasant to eate and the tree of lyfe in the middes of the garden: and also the tree of knowlege of good and euell.
And there spronge a rever out of Eden to water the garden and thence devided it selfe and grewe in to foure principall waters.
The name of the one is Phison he it is that compasseth all the lande of heuila where gold groweth.
And the gold of that contre ys precious there is found bedellion and a stone called Onix.
The name of the seconde ryver is Gihon which compassyth all the lande of Inde.
And the name of the thyrde river is Hidekell which runneth on the easte syde of the assyryans And the fourth river is Euphrates.
And the LORde God toke Adam and put him in the garden of Eden to dresse it and to kepe it:
and the LORde God comaunded Ada saynge: of all the trees of the garde se thou eate.
But of the tre of knowlege of good and badd se that thou eate not: for even ye same daye thou eatest of it thou shalt surely dye.
And the LORde God sayd: it is not good that man shulde be alone I will make hym an helper to beare him company:
And after yt the LORde God had make of the erth all maner beastes of the felde and all maner foules of the ayre he brought them vnto Adam to see what he wold call them. And as Ada called all maner livynge beastes: eve so are their names.
And Adam gave names vnto all maner catell and vnto the foules of the ayre and vnto all maner beastes of the felde. But there was no helpe founde vnto Adam to beare him companye
Then the LORde God cast a slomber on Adam and he slepte. And then he toke out one of his rybbes and in stede ther of he fylled vp the place with flesh.
And the LORde God made of the rybbe which he toke out of Adam a woma and brought her vnto Adam.
Then sayd Ada this is once bone of my boones and flesh of my flesh. This shall be called woman: because she was take of the man.
For this cause shall a man leve father and mother and cleve vnto his wyfe and they shall be one flesh.
And they were ether of them naked both Adam and hys wyfe ad were not ashamed: