To the Chief Musician on Neginoth. A Contemplation. A Psalm of David. Give ear to my prayer, O God; and do not hide Yourself from my cry.
Pay attention to me, and answer me; I wander and I moan in my complaint,
from the voice of the enemy, from the oppression of the wicked; for they shake trouble over me, and in anger they hate me.
My heart is pained within me, and the terrors of death have fallen on me.
Fear and trembling come on me; and honor has covered me.
And I said, Who will give to me wings like a dove? I would fly away and be at rest.
I would rove far away, fleeing; I would lodge in the desert. Selah.
I would hasten to my escape from the rushing wind, from the tempest.
Swallow up, O Lord; divide their tongue; for I see violence and strife in the city.
They go around her on her walls by day and night; and trouble and mischief are in her midst.
Covetings are in her midst; oppression and guile will not depart from her streets.
For it is not an enemy reproaching me, or I could bear it ; it is not one who hates me who is magnifying himself against me; or I would hide myself from him.
But it is you, a man of my rank, my friend and my associate.
We sweetened counsel together; we marched into the house of God with the throng.
Desolation be upon them! They go down into Sheol alive, for evils are among them in their dwelling.
I, even I, will call to God, and Jehovah will save me.
Evening and morning, and at noon, I will complain and cry aloud; and He shall hear my voice.
He redeems my soul in peace from the war being waged against me for they were many with me.
God shall hear and answer them, even He who is enthroned of old. Selah. There are no changes to them; yea, they do not fear God.
He sent out his hand against those who wish him well; he polluted his covenant.
The butterings of his mouth were smooth, and war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, but they were as drawn swords.
Cast on Jehovah what He has given, and He will keep you; He will not give the righteous to waver, forever.
But You, O God, will bring them down to the pit of destruction; men of blood and deceit will not live out half their days; but I will trust in You.