In the year twenty-seven of Jeroboam, king of Israel, Azariah, son of Amaziah, king of Judah, began to reign.
He was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name [was] Jecholiah of Jerusalem.
And he did [that which was] right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
But with all this, the high places were not removed; the people sacrificed and burnt incense still on the high places.
And the LORD smote the king so that he was a leper unto the day of his death and dwelt in a separate house. And Jotham, the king's son, [was] over the house, judging the people of the land.
And the rest of the acts of Azariah and all that he did, [are] they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
So Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David; and Jotham, his son, reigned in his stead.
In the year thirty-eight of Azariah, king of Judah, Zachariah, the son of Jeroboam, began to reign over Israel in Samaria six months.
And he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD, as his fathers had done; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
And Shallum, the son of Jabesh, conspired against him, and smote him before the people and slew him, and reigned in his stead.
And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold, they [are] written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
This [was] the word of the LORD which he spoke unto Jehu, saying, Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth [generation]. And so it came to pass.
Shallum, the son of Jabesh, began to reign in the year thirty-nine of Uzziah, king of Judah; and he reigned a full month in Samaria.
For Menahem, the son of Gadi, went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria and smote Shallum, the son of Jabesh, in Samaria and slew him and reigned in his stead.
And the rest of the acts of Shallum and his conspiracy which he made, behold, they [are] written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
Then Menahem smote Tiphsah and all that [were] therein and the borders thereof from Tirzah because they had not opened [to him], therefore, he smote [it]; [and] all the women therein that were with child he ripped up.
In the year thirty-nine of Azariah, king of Judah, Menahem, the son of Gadi, began to reign over Israel [and reigned] ten years in Samaria.
And he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not depart all his days from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
[And] Pul, the king of Assyria, came against the land; and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand.
And Menahem exacted the money upon Israel, from all the mighty men of virtue, from each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back and did not stay there in the land.
And the rest of the acts of Menahem and all that he did, [are] they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah, his son, reigned in his stead.
In the year fifty of Azariah, king of Judah, Pekahiah, the son of Menahem, began to reign over Israel in Samaria [and reigned] two years.
And he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
But Pekah, the son of Remaliah a captain of his, conspired against him and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh and with him fifty men of the sons of Gilead; and he killed him and reigned in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah and all that he did, behold, they [are] written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
In the year fifty-two of Azariah, king of Judah, Pekah, the son of Remaliah, began to reign over Israel in Samaria [and reigned] twenty years.
And he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
In the days of Pekah, king of Israel, came Tiglathpileser, king of Assyria, and took Ijon, Abelbethmaachah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, Galilee, and all the land of Naphtali and carried them captive to Assyria.
And Hosea, the son of Elah, made a conspiracy against Pekah, the son of Remaliah, and smote him and slew him and reigned in his stead, in the year twenty of Jotham, the son of Uzziah.
And the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they [are] written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
In the second year of Pekah, the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, began to reign.
He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name [was] Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.
And he did [that which was] right in the sight of the LORD; he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done.
With all this, the high places were not removed; the people sacrificed and burned incense still in the high places. He built the higher gate of the house of the LORD.
Now the rest of the acts of Jotham and all that he did, [are] they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin, the king of Syria and Pekah, the son of Remaliah.
And Jotham slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, his father; and Ahaz, his son, reigned in his stead.: