Then Solomon spoke, Jehovah has said that He would dwell in the thick darkness.
And I have surely built an exalted house for You, and a place for You to dwell forever.
And the king turned his face and blessed all the congregation of Israel. And all the congregation of Israel was standing.
And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who has spoken with His mouth to my father David, and with His hands has fulfilled it, saying,
From the day that I brought My people out of the land of Egypt, I have not chosen a city out of any of the tribes of Israel to build a house for My name to be there, and I have not chosen a man to be leader over My people Israel.
But I have chosen Jerusalem for My name to be there, and I have chosen David to be over My people Israel.
And it was in the heart of my father to build a house for the name of Jehovah the God of Israel.
And Jehovah said to my father David, Because it has been in your heart to build a house for My name, you have done well that it has been in your heart,
but you shall not build the house, for your son who comes forth out of your loins, he shall build the house for My name.
And Jehovah has lifted up His word that He spoke, for I have risen up in the place of my father David, and sit on the throne of Israel, as Jehovah spoke. And I have built the house for the name of Jehovah the God of Israel.
And I have placed the ark there, where the covenant of Jehovah is , that He made with the sons of Israel.
And he stood before the altar of Jehovah, before the congregation of Israel, and spread out his palms.
Solomon had made a bronze scaffold, and put it in the middle of the court, five cubits long, and five cubits broad, and three cubits high; and he stood on it, and knelt on his knees before all the congregation of Israel, and spread out his hands toward Heaven.
and said, O Jehovah, God of Israel, there is no God like You in the heavens and in the earth, keeping covenant and mercy with Your servants, who walk before You with all their hearts;
who has kept with Your servant David, my father, that which You spoke to him; yea, You spoke with Your mouth, and You have fulfilled with Your hand, as at this day.
And now, O Jehovah the God of Israel, keep with Your servant David, my father, that which You spoke to him, saying, There shall not be cut off to you a man from before Me, sitting on the throne of Israel. Only, if your sons watch their way to walk in My law, as you have walked before Me.
And now, O Jehovah the God of Israel, let Your word be verified, which you spoke to Your servant David.
For is it true that God shall dwell with men on the earth? Behold, the heavens, and the heaven of heavens, do not contain You. How much less this house that I have built!
And You have turned toward the prayer of Your servant, and to his supplication, O Jehovah my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer that Your servant is praying before You;
for Your eyes shall be open toward this house by day and by night, toward the place that You have said to put Your name there, to listen to the prayer that Your servant prays toward this place.
And You shall listen to the supplications of Your servant, and of Your people Israel, that they pray toward this place; and You shall hear from Your place of dwelling, from Heaven, and shall hear and forgive.
If a man shall sin against his neighbor, and he shall lift up an oath on him, to cause him to swear, and he shall come and swear before Your altar in this house,
You shall hear from Heaven, and shall act, and shall judge Your servants, to repay the wicked, to bring his way on his own head; and to justify the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
And if Your people Israel shall be stricken before an enemy, because they have sinned against You; and they shall return and confess Your name, and shall pray and make supplication before You in this house,
then You shall hear from Heaven, and shall forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and shall cause them to return to the land which You have given to them and to their fathers.
When the heavens shall be shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against You, and they shall pray toward this place, and confess Your name, turning back from their sin because You have afflicted them,
then You shall hear from Heaven, and shall forgive the sin of Your servants, and of Your people Israel, because You have taught them the good way in which they should walk, and have given rain on Your land that You have given to Your people for an inheritance.
When there shall be famine in the land, when there is pestilence, blasting, or mildew; when there are locusts or ravagers when its enemies have distressed it in the land, in its gates, with any plague and any sickness;
Whatever prayer, whatever supplication shall be made for any man, and for all Your people Israel, when they know each one his own plague, and his own grief, and he shall spread out his palms toward this house;
then You shall hear from Heaven, Your dwelling place, and shall forgive, and shall give to each according to all his ways, because You know his heart; for You, You only, have known the heart of the sons of men;
so that they shall fear You, to walk in Your ways all the days that they shall live on the face of the land that You have given to our fathers.
And, also, to the stranger who is not of Your people Israel, and he has come from a distant land for Your great name's sake, and Your mighty hand, and Your stretched out arm; and they shall come and pray toward this house,
then You shall hear from Heaven, from Your dwelling place, and shall do according to all that the stranger calls to You; so that all the people of the earth shall know Your name, so as to fear You, as Your people Israel, and to know that Your name is called on this house that I have built.
When Your people shall go out to battle against its enemies in the way that You shall send them, and they shall pray to You toward this city that You have chosen, and the house that I have built for Your name;
then You shall hear from Heaven their prayer and their supplication, and shall maintain their cause.
When they sin against You (for there is not a man who does not sin) and You shall be angry with them and shall give them up before an enemy, and their captors shall take them captive, to a land distant or near;
and they shall return to their heart in the land from which they have been taken captive, and shall turn back and make supplication to You in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have acted perversely and have done wickedly;
yea, they shall turn back to You with all their heart, and with all their soul, in the land of their captivity, where they have been taken captive, and they shall pray toward their land that You have given to their fathers, and toward the city that You have chosen and toward the house that I have built for Your name;
then You shall hear from Heaven, from Your dwelling place their prayer and their supplications, and shall maintain their cause, and forgive Your people who have sinned against You.
Now, My God, I beseech You, let Your eyes be open and Your ears attentive to the prayer of this place;
and now, O Jehovah God, rise to Your rest; You, and the ark of Your strength; O Jehovah God, Your priests are clothed with salvation, and Your saints rejoice in goodness;
O Jehovah God, do not turn away the face of Your anointed; remember the good deeds of Your servant David.