Whoever loves instruction loves knowledge; but he who hates correction is like a brute animal.
The good gets grace from the LORD, but He will condemn a man of wicked thoughts.
A man shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
A woman of virtue is a crown to her husband, but she who causes shame is like rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are right; the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood; but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown, and are gone; but the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be praised according to his wisdom, but he who is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
Better is a despised one, and having a servant, than he honoring himself and lacks bread.
A righteous one understands the soul of his animal; but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He who tills his land shall be satisfied with bread; but he who follows vanities lacks heart.
The wicked desires the net of evils; but the root of the righteous yields fruit.
The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips, but the just shall come out of trouble.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, and the reward of a man's hands shall be given to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, hut he who listens to advice is wise.
A fool's vexation is known in a day, but the astute one covers shame.
He who breathes truth shows forth righteousness, but a false witness deceit.
There are those who speak like the thrusts of a sword, but the tongue of the wise heals.
The lips of truth shall be established forever, but only while I wink is a lying tongue.
Deceit is in the heart of those who imagine evil, but to counselors of peace there is joy.
No evil shall happen to the just, but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
Lying lips are hateful to the LORD, but those who deal truly are His delight.
A wise man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools cries out foolishness.
The hand of the hard worker shall bear rule, but the lazy shall be under service.
Heaviness in the heart of man makes it stoop, but a good word makes it glad.
The righteous is more excellent than his neighbor, but the way of the wicked seduces them.
The lazy one does not start after his game, but the wealth of a hard worker is precious.
In the way of righteousness is life, and in that pathway there is no death.