The reuelacion of Iesus Christe which god gave vnto him for to shewe vnto his servauntes thinges which muste shortly come to passe. And he sent and shewed by his angell vnto his servaunt Ihon
which bare recorde of the worde of god and of the testimony of Iesus Christe and of all thinges yt he sawe.
Happy is he that redith and they that heare the wordes of the prophesy and kepe thoo thinges which are written therin. For the tyme is at honde.
Ihon to the .vii. congregacios in Asia. Grace be with you and peace from him which is and which was and which is to come and from the .vii. spretes which are present before his trone
and from Iesus Christ which is a faythfull witnes and fyrst begotte of the deed: and Lorde over the kinges of the erth. Vnto him that loved vs and wesshed vs fro synnes in his awne bloud
and made vs kinges and Prestes vnto God his father be glory and dominion for ever more. Amen.
Beholde he commeth with cloudes and all eyes shall se him: and they also which peersed him. And all kinredes of ye erth shall wayle. Even so. Amen.
I am Alpha and Omega the begynninge and the endinge sayth the Lorde almyghty which is and which was and which is to come.
I Ihon youre brother and companyon in tribulacion and in the kyngdom and pacience which is in Iesu Christe was in the yle of Pathmos for the worde of god and for ye witnessynge of Iesu Christe.
I was in the sprete on a sondaye and herde behynde me a gret voyce as it had bene of a trompe
sayinge: I am Alpha and Omega the fyrst and the laste. That thou seist write in a boke and sende it vnto the congregacions which are in Asia vnto Ephesus and vnto Smyrna and vnto Pargamos and vnto Thiatira and vnto Sardis and vnto Philadelphia and vnto Laodicia.
And I turned backe to se the voyce that spake to me. And when I was turned: I sawe .vii golde candelstyckes
and in the myddes of the cadelstyckes one lyke vnto ye sone of ma clothed with a lynnen garmet doune to the ground and gyrd aboute the pappes with a golden gyrdle
His heed and his heares were whyte as whyte woll and as snowe: and his eyes were as a flame of fyre:
and his fete lyke vnto brasse as though they brent in a fornace: and his voyce as the sounde of many waters.
And he had in his right honde vii. starres. And out of his mouth wet a sharpe twoo edged swearde. And his face shone eve as the sonne in his strength.
And when I sawe him I fell at his fete even as deed. And he layde hys ryght honde apon me sayinge vnto me: feare not. I am the fyrst and the laste
and am alyve and was deed. And beholde I am alyve for ever more and have the kayes of hell and of deeth.
wryte therfore the thynges which thou haste sene and the thynges which are and the thynges which shalbe fulfylled hereafter:
and ye mystery of the vii. starres which thou sawest in my ryght honde and the vii. golden candelstyckes. The vii. stares are the messengers of the vii. congregacios: And the vii. candlestyckes which thou sawest are the vii. congregacions.