The One who dwells in eternity created all things together. God alone will be justified, and he remains an invincible King for eternity.
Who is able to declare his works?
For who can examine his greatness?
And who will announce the power of his magnitude? Or who would be able to describe his mercy?
There is no diminishing, and no increasing, and there is no discovering, the greatness of God.
When man has reached the end, then he will begin. And when he ceases, he will be in need.
What is man, and what is his grace? And what is his good, or what is his evil?
The number of the days of men are as many as one hundred years. Like a drop of water in the ocean, so they are considered to be. And like a grain of sand on the shore, so do these few years compare to the days of all time.
For this reason, God is patient with them, and he pours forth his mercy upon them.
He has seen that the presumption of their heart is evil, and he knows that their rebelliousness is wicked.
Therefore, he has bestowed his forgiveness on them, and he has revealed to them the way of equity.
The compassion of man is toward those closest to him. But the mercy of God is upon all flesh.
He is merciful, and he teaches and corrects, like a shepherd with his flock.
He takes pity on those who accept the doctrine of compassion, and he applies his judgments promptly.
Son, in your good works, you should not complain, and in giving anything, you should not cause grief with evil words.
Is heat not refreshed by the dew? So also is a good word better than a gift.
Behold, is a word not greater than a gift? But both are with a justified man.
The foolish place blame sharply. And a gift from the undisciplined causes the eyes to fail.
Before you judge, put justice in order within yourself, and before you speak, learn.
Before you become sick, obtain medicine. And before you judge, examine yourself. And then you will find forgiveness in the sight of God.
Before you become weak, humble yourself; and in a time of infirmity, show your way of life.
Let nothing impede you from praying always. And then you will not dread to be justified, even unto death. For the reward of God dwells in eternity.
Before you pray, prepare your soul. And do not choose to be like a man who tempts God.
Remember the wrath that will be on the day of consummation, and remember the time of retribution, when he will turn away his face.
Remember poverty in a time of abundance, and remember the deficiency of poverty in a day of riches.
From morning until evening, the time will be changed, and all these are swift in the eyes of God.
A wise man will be cautious in all things, and during a time of many offenses, he will be attentive against inaction.
Anyone who is astute recognizes wisdom, and he will acknowledge anyone who finds it.
Those who show understanding with words also have acted wisely themselves, and they have understood truth and justice, and they have fulfilled proverbs and judgments.
You should not go after your desires; instead, turn away from your own will.
If you offer your desires to your soul, this will cause you to become a joy to your enemies.
Take no delight in disorderly gatherings, whether large or small. For their commission of offenses is unceasing.
You should not be reduced by the contention of borrowing, even if there is nothing in your purse. For you would be contending against your own life.