Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come to you.
Hide not your face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline your ear to me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.
For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.
My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.
By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones stick to my skin.
I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.
I watch, and am as a sparrow alone on the house top.
My enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me.
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping.
Because of your indignation and your wrath: for you have lifted me up, and cast me down.
My days are like a shadow that declines; and I am withered like grass.
But you, O LORD, shall endure for ever; and your remembrance to all generations.
You shall arise, and have mercy on Zion: for the time to favor her, yes, the set time, is come.
For your servants take pleasure in her stones, and favor the dust thereof.
So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth your glory.
When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.
He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.
This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.
For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth;
To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;
To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;
When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD.
He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.
I said, O my God, take me not away in the middle of my days: your years are throughout all generations.
Of old have you laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of your hands.
They shall perish, but you shall endure: yes, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a clothing shall you change them, and they shall be changed:
But you are the same, and your years shall have no end.
The children of your servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before you.