Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Through Him we also have access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice on the hope of the glory of God.
And not only this, but we glory in afflictions also, knowing that afflictions work out patience,
and patience works out experience, and experience works out hope.
And hope does not make us ashamed, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit given to us.
For we yet being without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly.
For one will with difficulty die for a righteous one, yet perhaps one would even dare to die for a good one.
But God commends His love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us.
Much more then, being now justified by His blood, we shall be saved from wrath through Him.
For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life.
And not only so, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the reconciliation.
Therefore, even as through one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed on all men inasmuch as all sinned:
for until the Law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law.
But death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is the type of Him who was to come;
but the free gift shall not be also like the offense. For if by the offense of the one many died, much more the grace of God, and the gift in grace; which is of the one Man, Jesus Christ, abounded to many.
And the free gift shall not be as by one having sinned; (for indeed the judgment was of one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offenses to justification.
For if by one man's offense death reigned by one, much more they who receive abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by One, Jesus Christ.)
Therefore as by one offense sentence came on all men to condemnation, even so by the righteousness of One the free gift came to all men to justification of life.
For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of One shall many be made righteous.
But the Law entered so that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound,
so that as sin has reigned to death, even so grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.