And all the tax-collectors and sinners drew near to Him in order to hear Him.
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them.
And He spoke this parable to them, saying,
What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he loses one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost until he finds it?
And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost.
I say to you that likewise joy shall be in Heaven over one sinner who repents, more than over ninety-nine just persons who need no repentance.
Or what woman having ten drachmas, if she loses one drachma, does she not light a lamp and sweep the house, and seek carefully until she finds it?
And when she has found it, she calls her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost.
Likewise I say to you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents.
And He said, A certain man had two sons.
And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that is coming to me. And he divided his living to them.
And not many days afterward, the younger son gathered all together and went away into a far country. And there he wasted his property, living dissolutely.
And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land. And he began to be in want.
And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country. And he sent him into his fields to feed pigs.
And he was longing to fill his belly with the husks that the pigs ate, and no one gave to him.
And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father abound in loaves, and I perish with hunger!
I will arise and go to my father, and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven and before you
and am no more worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired servants.
And he arose and came to his father. But when he was still a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion, and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him.
And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven and before you, and am no more worthy to be called your son.
But the father said to his servants, Bring the best robe and put it on him. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet.
And bring the fattened calf here and kill it. And let us eat and be merry,
for this my son was dead and is alive again, he was lost and is found. And they began to be merry.
And his elder son was in the field. And as he came and drew near the house, he heard music and dancing.
And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant.
And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he has received him safe and sound.
And he was angry and would not go in. Therefore his father came out and entreated him.
And answering he said to his father, Lo, these many years I have served you, neither did I transgress your commandment at any time. And yet you never gave me a kid so that I might make merry with my friends.
But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your living with harlots, you have killed for him the fattened calf.
And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours.
It was right that we should make merry and be glad, for this brother of yours was dead and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.