And after six days Jesus takes Peter, and James, and John his brother, and brings them up onto a high mountain in private.
And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone as the sun, and his garments became white as the light.
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with him.
And having responded, Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If thou desire, we could make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. And lo, a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him.
And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were exceedingly afraid.
And having come, Jesus touched them and said, Arise, and fear not.
And having lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, except Jesus only.
And while they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man will rise from the dead.
And his disciples questioned him, saying, Why then do the scholars say that Elijah must first come?
And having answered, Jesus said to them, Elijah indeed comes first, and will restore all.
But I say to you, that Elijah already came, and they knew him not, but did to him how many things they wanted. Likewise also the Son of man is going to suffer by them.
Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them about John the immerser.
And when they came to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling to him, and saying,
Lord, be merciful to my son, because he is lunatic, and suffers badly. For he often falls into the fire, and often into the water.
And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not heal him.
And having answered, Jesus said, O faithless and perverted generation, how long will I be with you? How long will I endure you? Bring him here to me.
And Jesus rebuked it, and the demon departed from him. And the boy was cured from that hour.
Then the disciples having come to Jesus in private, said, Why could we not cast it out?
And Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief. For truly I say to you, if ye have faith as a grain of a mustard plant, ye will say to this mountain, Remove from here to there, and it will depart, and nothing will be impossible to you.
But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.
And while they turned back in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man is going to be delivered into the hands of men,
and they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised up. And they were exceedingly sorry.
And when they came to Capernaum, those who receive the double-drachma came to Peter, and said, Does not your teacher pay the double-drachma?
He says, Yes. And when he entered into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What think thou, Simon? The kings of the earth, from whom do they take taxes or tribute, from their sons or from strangers?
And Peter says to him, From strangers. Jesus said to him, Therefore the sons are free.
But, so that we might not offend them, after going to the sea, cast a hook. And take up the first fish coming up, and having opened its mouth, thou will find a four-drachma coin. After taking that, give thou to them for me and thee.