The vision of Isaiah son of Amoz, which he saw, concerning Judah and Jerusalem,—in the days of Uzziah Jotham Ahaz Hezekiah—kings of Judah.
Hear O heavens, And give ear, O earth, for Yahweh, hath spoken:—Sons, have I brought up, and advanced, And, they, have rebelled against me.
An ox knoweth, his owner, And an ass his masters crib,—Israel, doth not know, My people doth not consider.
Alas! a nation—committing sin, a people—burdened with iniquity, a seed—practising wickedness, sons—acting corruptly. They have forsaken Yahweh despised the Holy One of Israel,—Are estranged and gone back.
Why should ye be smitten any more? Ye would again turn aside! The whole head is sick, And the whole heart faint:
From the sole of the foot even unto the head, there is in it no soundness, Bruise and stripe and newly-made wound,—They have not been pressed out, nor bound up, nor soothed with oil.
Your country—is a desolation, Your cities—are consumed with fire,—Your soil—right before your eyes, foreigners are devouring it, And it is a desolation a very overthrow by foreigners;
And left is the Daughter of Zion, Like a hut in a vineyard,—Like a lodge in a gourd-plot Like a city besieged.
If, Yahweh of hosts, had not left us a very small remnant, Like Sodom, had we become, Gomorrah, had we resembled.
Hear the word of Yahweh, ye rulers of Sodom,—Give ear to the instruction of our God, ye people of Gomorrah:—
Of what use to me, is your multitude of sacrifices: Saith Yahweh: I am sated with ascending-offerings of rams and the fat of fed beasts,—In the blood of bulls and young rams and he-goats, have I no pleasure.
When ye enter to see my face, Who hath required this at your hand trampling my courts?
Ye shall not again bring in an empty, present, Incense, an abomination, is that unto me! New moon, and sabbath calling an assembly—I cannot endure, iniquity and sacred festival!
Your new moons and your appointed feasts, my soul, hateth,—They have become unto me a burden I am too weary to bear:
Even when ye spread forth your open palms, I hide mine eyes from you; Yea, though ye multiply prayers, I am not hearkening,—Your hands, with deeds of blood, are filled.
Wash you make you clean, Put away the wickedness of your doings from before mine eyes,—Cease to do evil.
Learn to do well—Seek justice, Correct the oppressor,—Vindicate the fatherless, Plead the cause of the widow,
Come, I pray you, and let us settle the dispute Saith Yahweh,—Though your sins be found like scarlet, As snow, shall they be made white, Though they appear red like crimson, As wool, shall they become.
If ye be willing—and hearken Of the good of the land, shall ye eat;
But, if ye refuse and rebel, With the sword, shall ye be devoured, For, the mouth of Yahweh, hath spoken it.
How hath she become unchaste!—The city that was Faithful,—Full of justice, Righteousness lodged in her, But, now, murderers!
Thy silver, hath become dross,—Thy wine, weakened with water;
Thy rulers, are unruly, and companions of thieves, Every one of the people, loveth a bribe, and runneth after rewards,—The fatherless, they do not vindicate, And, the plea of the widow, reacheth them not.
Therefore, Declareth the Lord Yahweh of hosts, The Mighty One of Israel,—Alas! I must appease me on mine adversaries, I must avenge me on mine enemies
That I may turn my hand against thee, And smelt away, as with potash, thy dross, And remove all thine alloy;
That I may restore thy Judges as at the first, and thy Counsellors as at the beginning,—After that, shalt thou be called Righteous citadel, Trusty city,—
Zion, with justice shall be redeemed,—And her returning ones, with righteousness;
And the downfall of transgressors and sinners, shall be, together,—And, they who forsake Yahweh, shall be brought to an end;
For they shall turn pale on account of the oaks which ye desired,—And ye shall blush on account of the gardens which ye had chosen;
For ye shall be as an oak with its leaf faded, And as a garden that hath no, water;
Then shall the strong one become tow, And his work a spark,—And they shall both blaze together And there be none to quench the fire.