A wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish destroyeth it with her owne handes.
He that walketh in his righteousnes, feareth the Lord: but he that is lewde in his wayes, despiseth him.
In the mouth of the foolish is the rod of pride: but the lippes of the wise preserue them.
Where none oxen are, there the cribbe is emptie: but much increase cometh by the strength of the oxe.
A faithfull witnes will not lye: but a false record will speake lyes.
A scorner seeketh wisdome, and findeth it not: but knowledge is easie to him that will vnderstande.
Depart from the foolish man, when thou perceiuest not in him the lippes of knowledge.
The wisdome of ye prudent is to vnderstand his way: but the foolishnes of the fooles is deceite.
The foole maketh a mocke of sinne: but among the righteous there is fauour.
The heart knoweth the bitternes of his soule, and the stranger shall not medle with his ioy.
The house of the wicked shalbe destroyed: but the tabernacle of the righteous shall florish.
There is a way that seemeth right to a man: but the issues thereof are the wayes of death.
Euen in laughing the heart is sorowful, and the ende of that mirth is heauinesse.
The heart that declineth, shall be saciate with his owne wayes: but a good man shall depart from him.
The foolish will beleeue euery thing: but the prudent will consider his steppes.
A wise man feareth, and departeth from euill: but a foole rageth, and is carelesse.
He that is hastie to anger, committeth follie, and a busie body is hated.
The foolish do inherite follie: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
The euill shall bowe before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poore is hated euen of his own neighbour: but the friendes of the rich are many.
The sinner despiseth his neighbour: but he that hath mercie on the poore, is blessed.
Doe not they erre that imagine euill? but to them that thinke on good things, shalbe mercie and trueth.
In all labour there is abundance: but the talke of the lippes bringeth onely want.
The crowne of the wise is their riches, and the follie of fooles is foolishnes.
A faithfull witnes deliuereth soules: but a deceiuer speaketh lyes.
In the feare of the Lord is an assured strength, and his children shall haue hope.
The feare of the Lord is as a welspring of life, to auoyde the snares of death.
In the multitude of the people is the honour of a King, and for the want of people commeth the destruction of the Prince.
He that is slowe to wrath, is of great wisdome: but he that is of an hastie minde, exalteth follie.
A sounde heart is the life of the flesh: but enuie is the rotting of the bones.
He that oppresseth the poore, reprooueth him that made him: but hee honoureth him, that hath mercie on the poore.
The wicked shall be cast away for his malice: but the righteous hath hope in his death.
Wisedome resteth in the heart of him that hath vnderstanding, and is knowen in the mids of fooles.
Iustice exalteth a nation, but sinne is a shame to the people.
The pleasure of a King is in a wise seruant: but his wrath shalbe toward him that is lewde.