And if his offering is a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offers from the herd, whether it is a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall sprinkle the blood on the altar all around.
And he shall bring near from the sacrifice the peace offering, a fire offering to the LORD. The fat that covers the inward parts, all the fat that is on the inward parts,
and the two kidneys, and the fat on them, on the loins, and the fold above the liver, with the kidneys, he shall remove.
And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar, on the burnt sacrifice on the wood, which is on the fire. It is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering to the LORD is of the flocks, male or female, he shall bring it without blemish.
If he is bringing near a sheep for his offering, then he shall bring it near before the LORD.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood all around on the altar.
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering, a fire offering to the LORD. He shall take away its fat, all its fat next to the backbone, and all the fat that covers the inward parts, and all the fat that is on the inward parts,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and the fold above the liver, beside the kidneys, he shall remove it.
And the priest shall burn it on the altar, bread of the fire offering to the LORD.
And if his offering is a goat, then he shall bring it near before the LORD.
And he shall lay his hand on its head and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation. And the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood on the altar all around.
And he shall offer his offering of it, a fire offering to the LORD, the fat that covers the inward parts, and all the fat on the inward parts,
and the two kidneys, and the fat on them, which is on the loins, and the fold above the liver, beside the kidneys, he shall remove.
And the priest shall burn them on the altar, bread of the fire offering for a sweet savor. All the fat is the LORD's.
It shall be a statute forever for your generations throughout all your dwellings, that you eat neither fat nor blood.