In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar, and the thing was true, even a great warfare. And he understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision.
In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three whole weeks.
I ate no pleasant bread. Neither flesh nor wine came into my mouth. Neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled.
And in the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel,
I lifted up my eyes, and looked. And, behold, a man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with pure gold of Uphaz.
Also his body was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like burnished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude.
And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great quaking fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves.
So I was left alone, and saw this great vision. And there remained no strength in me, for my fitness was turned in me into debility, and I retained no strength.
Yet I heard the voice of his words. And when I heard the voice of his words, then I fell into a deep sleep on my face, with my face toward the ground.
And, behold, a hand touched me, which set me upon my knees and upon the palms of my hands.
And he said to me, O Daniel, thou man greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak to thee, and stand upright, for I am now sent to thee. And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood, trembling.
Then he said to me, Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that thou set thy heart to understand, and to humble thyself before thy God, thy words were heard. And I have come for thy words' sake.
But the ruler of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, but, lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me. And I remained there with the kings of Persia.
I have come now to make thee understand what shall befall thy people in the latter days, for the vision is yet for many days.
And when he had spoken to me according to these words, I set my face toward the ground, and was mute.
And, behold, someone in the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth, and spoke and said to him who stood before me, O my lord, because of the vision my pains have turned upon me, and I retain no strength.
For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord? For as for me, straightaway there remained no strength in me, nor was there breath left in me.
Then someone like the appearance of a man touched me again, and he strengthened me.
And he said, O man greatly beloved, fear not. Peace be to thee. Be strong, yea, be strong. And when he spoke to me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak, for thou have strengthened me.
Then he said, Do thou know why I have come to thee? And now I will return to fight with the ruler of Persia. And when I go forth, lo, the ruler of Greece shall come.
But I will tell thee that which is inscribed in the writing of truth. And there is none who holds with me against these, but Michael your prince.