And these are they of the sons of Israel who inherited in the land of Canaan, whom Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel caused to inherit.
Their inheritance was by lot, as Jehovah commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes, and the half tribe;
for Moses had given the inheritance of two of the tribes and the half tribe, beyond the Jordan; and he did not give any inheritance to the Levites among them.
For the sons of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. And they did not give a portion to the Levites in the land, except cities to live in , with the open land around them for their livestock and for their substance,
as Jehovah commanded Moses, so the sons of Israel did, and they allotted the land.
And the sons of Judah came near to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, You know the word that Jehovah spoke to Moses the man of God as to me and as to you in Kadesh-barnea.
I was a son of forty years when Moses the servant of Jehovah sent me from Kadesh-barnea to spy out the land. And I brought him back word as it was in my heart.
But my brothers who went up with me caused the heart of the people to melt, yet I fully followed after Jehovah my God.
And Moses swore in that day, saying, Surely the land on which your foot has trodden shall be an inheritance for you and for your sons forever, because you have fully followed after Jehovah my God.
And now, behold, Jehovah has kept me alive, as He said, these forty five years since Jehovah spoke this word to Moses, when Israel went in the wilderness. And now, behold, today I am a son of eighty five years;
yet I am as strong today as in the day Moses sent me. As my strength was then, so is my strength now for war, both to go out and to come in.
And now, give to me this mountain, of which Jehovah spoke in that day, for you heard in that day how the son of Anak were there, and great walled cities. If Jehovah shall be with me, then I shall expel them, as Jehovah has spoken.
And Joshua blessed him, and he gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance.
Therefore, Hebron has belonged to Caleb the son of Jephunneh, the Kenizzite, for an inheritance to this day, because he fully followed after Jehovah the God of Israel.
And the name of Hebron before was City of Arba; that one was a great man among the Anakim. And the land had rest from war.