And thou shall make an altar to burn incense upon. Thou shall make it of acacia wood.
A cubit shall be the length of it, and a cubit the breadth of it (it shall be foursquare), and two cubits shall be the height of it. The horns of it shall be of one piece with it.
And thou shall overlay it with pure gold, the top of it, and the sides of it round about, and the horns of it. And thou shall make to it a crown of gold round about.
And two golden rings thou shall make for it under the crown of it, upon the two ribs of it, upon the two sides of it thou shall make them. And they shall be for places for staves with which to bear it.
And thou shall make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
And thou shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy-seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee.
And Aaron shall burn in it incense of sweet spices. Every morning, when he dresses the lamps, he shall burn it.
And when Aaron lights the lamps at evening, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before Jehovah throughout your generations.
Ye shall offer no strange incense on it, nor burnt offering, nor meal offering. And ye shall pour no drink offering on it.
And Aaron shall make atonement upon the horns of it once in the year, with the blood of the sin offering of atonement. Once in the year he shall make atonement for it throughout your generations. It is most holy to Jehovah.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
When thou take the sum of the sons of Israel, according to those who are numbered of them, then they shall give every man a ransom for his soul to Jehovah when thou number them, that there be no plague among them when thou number them.
This they shall give, everyone who passes over to those who are numbered: half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary, (the shekel is twenty gerahs,) half a shekel for an offering to Jehovah.
Everyone who passes over to those who are numbered, from twenty years old and upward, shall give the offering of Jehovah.
The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less, than the half shekel, when they give the offering of Jehovah, to make atonement for your souls.
And thou shall take the atonement money from the sons of Israel, and shall appoint it for the service of the tent of meeting, that it may be a memorial for the sons of Israel before Jehovah, to make atonement for your souls.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Thou shall also make a laver of brass, and the base of it of brass for washing. And thou shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and thou shall put water in it.
And Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet there.
When they go into the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water, that they not die, or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they not die. And it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his seed throughout their generations.
Moreover Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Take thou also to thee the chief spices: of flowing myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty,
and of cassia five hundred, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive oil a hin.
And thou shall make it a holy anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the art of the perfumer. It shall be a holy anointing oil.
And thou shall anoint with it the tent of meeting, and the ark of the testimony,
and the table and all the vessels of it, and the lampstand and the vessels of it, and the altar of incense,
and the altar of burnt offering with all the vessels of it, and the laver and the base of it.
And thou shall sanctify them, that they may be most holy. Whatever touches them shall be holy.
And thou shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest's office.
And thou shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, This shall be a holy anointing oil to me throughout your generations.
Upon the flesh of man it shall not be poured, neither shall ye make any like it, according to the composition of it. It is holy, and it shall be holy to you.
Whoever compounds any like it, or whoever puts any of it upon a stranger, he shall be cut off from his people.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Take to thee sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum, sweet spices with pure frankincense, of each shall there be a like weight.
And thou shall make of it incense, a perfume after the art of the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and holy.
And thou shall beat some of it very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting, where I will meet with thee. It shall be to you most holy.
And the incense which thou shall make, ye shall not make for yourselves according to the composition of it. It shall be to thee holy for Jehovah.
Whoever shall make like that, to smell of it, he shall be cut off from his people.