Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying—
On the first day of the month, in the first month, shalt thou rear the habitation, of the tent of meeting;
and thou shalt put therein, the ark of the testimony,—and shalt screen the ark with the veil;
and thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order what is to be arranged thereupon,—and thou shalt bring in the lampstand, and mount the lamps thereof;
and thou shalt place the altar of gold for incense, before the ark of the testimony,—and put up the screen for the opening of the habitation;
and thou shalt place the altar for the ascending-sacrifice,—before the opening of the habitation of the tent of meeting;
and thou shalt place the laver between the tent of meeting, and the altar, and shalt put therein water,
And thou shalt put up the court round about, and hang up the screen of the gate of the court.
And thou shalt take the oil of anointing, and anoint the habitation and all that is therein,—and shalt hallow it. and all the furniture thereof so shall it be holy.
And thou shalt anoint the altar of ascending sacrifice, and all its utensils,—and hallow the altar, so shall the altar be most holy:
and thou shalt anoint the laver and its stand,—and shalt hallow it.
And thou shalt bring near Aaron and his sons, unto the opening of the tent of meeting,—and shalt bathe them in the water;
and thou shalt clothe Aaron with the holy garments,—and shalt anoint him and hallow him so shall he minister as priest unto me.
His sons also, shalt thou bring near,—and shalt clothe them with tunics;
and shalt anoint them as thou didst anoint their father, and they shall minister as priests unto me,—so shall their anointing remain to them for an age-abiding priesthood, to their generations.
And Moses did,—according to all that Yahweh had commanded him, so did he.
Thus came it to pass, in the first month, in the second year, on the first of the month, that the habitation was reared.
Yea Moses reared the habitation, and placed its sockets, and fixed its boards, and fastened its bars,—and reared its pillars.
Then spread he abroad the tent upon the habitation, and put the covering of the tent upon it, above,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he took and placed the testimony within the ark, and put the staves upon the ark,—and placed the propitiatory upon the ark, above;
and brought in the ark into the habitation, and put up the screening veil, and screened over the ark of the testimony,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he placed the table in the tent of meeting,—on the side of the habitation northward,—outside the veil;
and set in order thereupon the arrangement of bread before Yahweh,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he put the lampstand, in the tent of meeting, over against the table,—on the side of the habitation southward;
and mounted the lamps before Yahweh,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he put the altar of gold in the tent of meeting,—before the veil;
and burned thereupon the fragrant incense,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he put up the screen of the entrance pertaining to the habitation;
and, the altar of ascending-sacrifice, put he at the entrance of the habitation of the tent of meeting,—and he caused to ascend thereupon the ascending-sacrifice, and the meal-offering,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he put the laver, between the tent of meeting, and the altar,—and put therein water for bathing;
and Moses and Aaron and his sons thenceforth bathed thereat,—their hands and their feet;
when they were entering into the tent of meeting, and when they were drawing near unto the altar, then used they to bathe,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And he reared the court round about to the habitation and to the altar, and put up the screen of the gate of the court,—and Moses finished the work.
Then did the cloud cover the tent of meeting,—and, the glory of Yahweh, filled the habitation;
and Moses was not able to enter into the tent of meeting, because the cloud had made its habitation thereupon,—and the glory of Yahweh, filled the habitation.
And whensoever the cloud ascended from off the habitation, then did the sons of Israel set forward, in all their journeyings;
but if the cloud did not ascend, then did they not set forward—until the day when it did ascend.
For, the cloud of Yahweh, was upon the habitation by day, and, a fire, came to be by night therein,—in the sight of all the house of Israel in all their journeyings.