For the rest my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you truly is not tiresome to me, but safe for you.
Look out for the dogs, look out for the evil workers, look out for the concision party .
For we are the circumcision, the ones who worship by the Spirit of God, and who glory in Christ Jesus, and who do not trust in flesh.
Though I also might have trust in flesh; if any other thinks to trust in flesh, I more;
in circumcision, the eighth day, of the race of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; according to Law, a Pharisee;
according to zeal, persecuting the church; according to righteousness in Law, being blameless.
But what things were gain to me, these I have counted loss because of Christ.
But, nay, rather I also count all things to be loss because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them to be trash, that I might gain Christ
and be found in Him; not having my own righteousness of Law, but through the faith of Christ, having the righteousness of God on faith,
to know Him and the power of His resurrection, and the fellowship of His sufferings, having been conformed to His death,
if somehow I may attain to a resurrection out of the dead.
Not that I already received or already have been perfected, but I press on, if I also may lay hold, inasmuch as I also was laid hold of by Christ Jesus.
Brothers, I do not count myself to have laid hold, but one thing I do , forgetting the things behind, and stretching forward to those things before,
I press on after the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
Then as many as are perfect, let us be of this mind; and if you think anything differently, God will also reveal this to you.
Yet as to where we have arrived, walk by the same rule, being of the same mind.
Be fellow-imitators of me, brothers, and consider those walking this way, even as you have us for a pattern.
For many walk as the enemies of the cross of Christ, of whom I often told you, and now even weeping I say it,
whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and who glory in their shame, those who mind earthly things.
For our citizenship is in Heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who will transform our body of humiliation, for it to be conformed to His body of glory, according to the working of His power, even to put all things under Himself.