On that night the king could not sleep. And he commanded to bring the book of records of the chronicles, and they were read before the king.
And it was found written, that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's chamberlains, of those who kept the threshold, who had sought to lay hands on king Ahasuerus.
And the king said, What honor and dignity has been bestowed on Mordecai for this? Then the king's servants who ministered to him said, There is nothing done for him.
And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman came into the outward court of the king's house to speak to the king to hang Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
And the king's servants said to him, Behold, Haman stands in the court. And the king said, Let him come in.
So Haman came in. And the king said to him, What shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor? Now Haman said in his heart, To whom would the king delight to do honor more than to myself?
And Haman said to the king, For the man whom the king delights to honor,
let royal apparel be brought which the king uses to wear, and the horse that the king rides upon, and on the head of which a royal crown is set.
And let the apparel and the horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most noble rulers, that they may array the man therewith whom the king delights to honor, and cause him to ride on horseback through the street of the city, and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.
Then the king said to Haman, Make haste, and take the apparel and the horse, as thou have said, and do even so to Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the king's gate. Let nothing fail of all that thou have spoken.
Then Haman took the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and caused him to ride through the street of the city, and proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.
And Mordecai came again to the king's gate. But Haman hastened to his house, mourning and having his head covered.
And Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had befallen him. Then his wise men and Zeresh his wife said to him, If Mordecai, before whom thou have begun to fall, be of the seed of the Jews, thou shall not prevail against him, but shall surely fall before him.
While they were yet talking with him, the king's chamberlains came, and hastened to bring Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.