In that hour came, the disciples unto Jesus, saying—Who then is, greatest, in the kingdom of the heavens?
And, calling near a child, he set it in the midst of them,
and said—Verily, I say unto you, Except ye turn and become as the children, in nowise, shall ye enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this child, the same, is the greatest, in the kingdom of the heavens;
And, whosoever shall give welcome unto one such child as this, upon my name, unto me, giveth welcome.
And, whosoever shall cause to stumble one of these little ones who believe in me, it profiteth him, that there be hung a large mill-stone about his neck, and he be sunk in the wide main of the sea.
Alas for the world! by reason of the causes of stumbling; for it is, necessary, that the causes of stumbling come,—nevertheless, alas for the man through whom the cause of stumbling cometh!
But, if, thy hand or thy foot, be causing thee to stumble, cut it off, and cast it from thee: It is, seemly for thee, to enter into life, maimed or lame, rather than, having two hands or two feet, to be cast into the age-abiding fire.
And, if, thine eye, causeth thee to stumble, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: It is, seemly, for thee, one-eyed, into life, to enter, rather than, having two eyes, to be cast into the fiery gehenna.
Beware! do not despise one of these little ones; For I say unto you—that, their messengers in the heavens, do, continually, behold the face of my Father in the heavens.

How, to you, doth it seem? If a certain man come to have a hundred sheep and one from among them go astray, Will he not leave the ninety-nine upon the mountains, and going, seek the straying one?
And, if it should be that he find it, Verily, I say unto you—He rejoiceth over it, more than over the ninety-nine that have not gone astray.
Thus, there is no desire, in the presence of my Father who is in the heavens, that, one of these little ones, should be lost.
But, if thy brother sin, withdraw, convince him, betwixt thee and him, alone,—If unto thee he hearken, thou hast gained thy brother;
But, if he do not hearken, take with thee, yet one or two, that, at the mouth of two witnesses or three, every declaration, maybe established;
But, if he hear them amiss, tell it to the assembly,—And, if, even the assembly, he hear amiss, Let him be unto thee, just as the man of the nations and the tax-collector.
Verily, I say unto you—Whatsoever things ye shall bind on the earth, shall be bound in heaven; and, whatsoever things ye shall loose on the earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
Again, [verily] I say unto you—If two from among you shall agree upon the earth concerning any matter, whatsoever they shall ask, it shall be brought to pass for them, from my Father who is in the heavens;
For, where there are two or three, gathered together into my name, there, am I, in their midst.
Then, coming near, Peter said [to him]—Lord! how many times, shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Until, seven, times?
Jesus saith to him—I say not unto thee, unto, seven, times, but, until seventy times seven.
For this cause, hath the kingdom of the heavens become like unto a man, a king, who wished to settle an account with his servants;
And, when he, began, to settle, there was brought unto him a, certain, debtor, of a thousand talents;
and, he, not having, wherewith to pay, the master ordered him to be sold, and the wife, and the children, and whatsoever he had,—and payment to be made.
The servant therefore, falling down, began to do homage unto him, saying—Have patience with me, and, all, will I pay thee.
And, moved with compassion, the master of that servant released him, and, the loan, he, forgave, him.
But that servant, going out, found one of his fellow-servants, who owed him, a hundred denaries, and, laying hold of him, he began seizing him by the throat, saying, Pay! if anything thou owest.
His fellow servant, therefore, falling down, began beseeching him, saying, Have patience with me! And I will pay thee.
He, however, would not, but went away and cast him into prison,—until he should pay what was owing.
His fellow-servants, therefore, seeing, the things that were done, were grieved exceedingly,—and went and made quite plain to their master all the things which had been done.
Then, calling him near, his master saith unto him—O wicked servant! All that debt, forgave I thee, because thou didst beseech me.
Was it not binding, upon thee also, to have mercy upon thy fellow-servant, as, I also, on thee, had mercy?
And, provoked to anger, his master delivered him up to the torturers, until he should pay all that was owing.
Thus, my heavenly Father also, will do unto you, if ye forgive not each one his brother, from your hearts.