AND he went out thence, and came into his native country; and his disciples followed him.
And when the sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many when they heard him were amazed, saying, Whence hath this man these things? and what is the wisdom given to him, that even such miracles are done by his hands?
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James and Joses, and Judah and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended at him.
Then said Jesus unto them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his native place, and among his relations, and in his own family.
And he could not do there any miracle, except that laying his hands on a few sick persons he cured them.
And he marvelled at their infidelity.   And he went about the villages around, teaching.
And called the twelve, and began to send them two and two, and gave them authority over unclean spirits.
And he commanded them, that they should take nothing for the journey, except a staff only; neither scrip, nor bread, nor even brass money in their purse:
wearing sandals, and not to be clothed with two coats.
And he said unto them, Wheresoever ye enter into a family, there abide until ye depart thence.
And as many as shall not receive you, neither hearken to you, when ye go from thence, shake off the dust from beneath your feet, for a testimony against them. Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city.
And going forth, they preached, that men should repent.
And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many sick persons, and cured them.
And king Herod heard it (for his name was celebrated), and he said, This is John the Baptist, he is risen from the dead, and therefore miracles are wrought by him.
Others said, That it is Elias; and others said, He is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.
But when Herod heard it, he said, This is John whom I beheaded; he is risen from the dead.
For Herod himself had sent and seized upon John, and bound him in prison, for Herodias’ sake, his brother Philip’s wife; because he had married her.
For John said to Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother’s wife.
Therefore Herodias bore him a rooted resentment, and would have slain him; yet could not:
for Herod feared John, knowing him to be a righteous and holy man; and paid great attention to him and when he heard him, did many things, and heard him with delight.
And a favourable day being come for her purpose, when Herod on his birth-day made a supper for his nobles, and military commanders, and the principal personages of Galilee;
and the daughter of this Herodias coming in, and dancing, and delighting Herod, and his company, the king said to the damsel, Ask me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it thee.
And he swore unto her, That whatsoever thou shalt ask, I will give thee, even to the half of my kingdom.
Then she went out and said to her mother, What shall I ask? and she said, The head of John the Baptist.
And she came in immediately with eagerness to the king, and asked, saying, I desire that thou wilt give me on the spot, in a charger, the head of John the Baptist.
And the king was exceedingly sorry; yet on account of his oath, and those who sat with him, he would not refuse her.
And the king immediately sending a centinel, commanded his head to be brought thither: and he went, and beheaded him in the prison,
and brought his head in a charger, and gave it to the damsel, and the damsel gave it to her mother.
And when his disciples heard it, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a sepulchre.
And the disciples came together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.
And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and repose a little while: for there were multitudes coming and going, so that they had not even time to eat.
And they went into a desert place in a vessel privately.
And the multitudes observed them going off, and many knew him, and ran thither on foot out of all the cities, and got before them, and came together unto him.
And Jesus, when he landed, saw a vast multitude, and was moved with companion towards them, for they were as sheep having no shepherd: and he began to teach them many things.
And when great part of the day was already gone, his disciples coming to him said, This is a desert place, and much of the day is already gone:
send them away, that they may go into the country places and villages around, and buy themselves bread; for they have nothing to eat.
But he answering said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy the value of two hundred denarii, in loaves, and give them to eat?
But he said to them, How many loaves have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they said, Five, and two fishes.
And he commanded them to seat them all by companies on the green grass:
and they lay along row against row, a hundred deep, and fifty wide.
And taking the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed, and brake the loaves, and gave them to the disciples, that they should set them before them, and the two fishes he divided among them all.
And they did all eat, and were filled:
and they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, and of the fishes.
And they who did eat of the loaves, were about five thousand men.
And immediately he compelled his disciples to go on board the vessel, and to go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he sent the multitude away.
And having bid them farewell, he went into a mountain to pray.
And when the evening was come, the vessel was in the midst of the sea, and himself alone on the land.
And he saw them greatly fatigued with rowing, for the wind was contrary to them: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh to them, walking upon the sea, and seemed intending to pass by them.
But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they thought it was an apparition, and screamed out:
for they all saw him, and were greatly agitated: and straitway he spoke to them, and said, Take courage, it is I, be not terrified.
And he went up to them into the vessel, and the wind ceased and they were beyond all imagination amazed in themselves, and lost in wonder.
For they reflected not upon the loaves, for their heart was hardened.
And when they had passed over, they came to the land of Gennesareth, and went on shore.
And when they came out of the vessel, immediately perceiving him,
running through all parts of that country, they began to carry about on couches those who were afflicted with diseases, wherever they heard that he was.
And wherever they entered into villages or cities, or country places, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought him that they might touch, if but the fringe on his garment; and as many as touched it, were cured.