And the LORD spoke unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai in the first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Let the sons of Israel also keep the passover at its [appointed] season.
In the fourteenth day of this month, between the two evenings, ye shall keep it in its [appointed] season; according to all its ordinance and according to all the laws thereof, shall ye keep it.
And Moses spoke unto the sons of Israel that they should keep the passover.
And they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month between the two evenings in the wilderness of Sinai; according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did the sons of Israel.
And there were certain men, who were defiled by the dead body of a man, that they could not keep the passover on that day; and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day;
and those men said unto him, We [are] defiled by the dead body of a man; why are we kept back, that we may not offer an offering of the LORD in his [appointed] season among the sons of Israel?
And Moses said unto them, Wait, and I will hear what the LORD will command concerning you.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto the sons of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your generations should be unclean by reason of a dead body or [be] on a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the passover unto the LORD.
The fourteenth day of the second month, between the two evenings they shall keep it, [and] eat it with unleavened bread and bitter [herbs].
They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any bone of it; according to all the ordinance of the passover they shall keep it.
But the man that is clean and is not on a journey and forbears to keep the passover, that same soul shall be cut off from [among] his people; because he did not bring the offering of the LORD in his [appointed] season; that man shall bear his sin.
And if a stranger shall sojourn among you and will keep the passover unto the LORD; according to the ordinance of the passover and according to the laws thereof, so shall he do; ye shall have one ordinance, both for the stranger and for the natural of the land.
And on the day that the tabernacle was raised up, the cloud covered the tabernacle over the tent of the testimony; and in the evening there was upon the tabernacle, as it were, the appearance of fire until the morning.
So it was always: the cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night.
And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the sons of Israel journeyed; and in the place where the cloud abode, there the sons of Israel pitched their tents.
At the commandment of the LORD the sons of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of the LORD they pitched camp; as long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle, they rested.
And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle many days, then the sons of Israel kept the charge of the LORD and did not journey.
And so it was, when the cloud was a [determined] number of days upon the tabernacle, according to the commandment of the LORD they camped, and according to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed.
And so it was that when the cloud [remained] from evening unto the morning, and in the morning the cloud was taken up, then they journeyed; or [if it had remained during] the day and the cloud was taken up by night, they journeyed.
Or [if it] was two days or a month or a year that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the sons of Israel camped and did not journey; but when it was taken up, they journeyed.
At the commandment of the LORD they camped, and at the commandment of the LORD they journeyed, keeping the charge of the LORD, as the LORD had said by the hand of Moses.: