And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, there were two women, daughters of one mother.
And they fornicated in Egypt; in their youth they fornicated. Their breasts were handled, and there their virgin nipples were worked.
And their names were Oholah, the oldest, and Oholibah, her sister. And they were Mine, and they bore sons and daughters. And their names: Samaria is Oholah, and Jerusalem is Oholibah.
And Oholah whored under Me. And she lusted after her lovers, to Assyrian neighbors,
clothed with purple, governors and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding horses.
And she bestowed her harlotries on them, the choice sons of Assyria, with all of them, and with all after whom she lusted. She defiled herself with all their idols.
And she did not leave her fornications from Egypt. For they lay with her in her youth, and they worked her virgin nipples and poured their fornications on her.
So I have given her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the sons of Assyria on whom she lusted.
They uncovered her nakedness. They took her sons and her daughters. And they killed her with the sword. And she became notorious among women, and they executed judgments on her.
And her sister Oholibah saw. And she was more corrupt in her lustfulness than she, and her fornications were greater than her sister's whoredom.
She lusted to the sons of Assyria, neighboring governors and rulers clothed most perfectly, horsemen riding horses, all of them desirable young men.
Then I saw that she was defiled, one way was to both of them.
And she added to her fornications. And she saw men carved on the wall, images of the Chaldeans engraved with red color,
girded with girdles on their loins, with overflowing turbans on their heads, the look of rulers, all of them, like the sons of Babylon in Chaldea, the land of their birth.
And she lusted after them, to the look of her eyes, and sent messengers to them into Chaldea.
And the sons of Babylon came to her, to the bed of love. And they defiled her with their fornications. And she was defiled with them, and her soul was alienated from them.
And she uncovered her fornications and uncovered her nakedness. Then My soul was alienated from her just as My soul was alienated from her sister.
And she multiplied her fornications to recall the days of her youth, in which she had fornicated in the land of Egypt.
And she lusted on their lovers of whom the flesh of asses resembles their flesh, and as the issue of horses was their issue.
So you longed for the wickedness of your youth, when from Egypt they worked your nipples, for the sake of the breasts of your youth.
So, O Oholibah, the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, I will arouse your lovers against you, from whom your soul is alienated. And I will bring them against you from all around,
Babylon's sons and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, all the sons of Assyria with them, desirable young men, governors and rulers, all of them, third heads and called ones, all of them riding horses.
And they shall come against you with weapons, chariots, and wheels, and with a group of peoples; buckler and shield and helmet shall set against you all around. And I will give before them judgment, and they will judge you by their judgments.
And I will give My jealousy against you, and they will deal with you in fury. Your nose and your ears they will take, and the rest of you shall fall by the sword. They will take your sons and your daughters, and the rest of you shall be devoured by the fire.
And they will strip you of your clothes, and take the articles of your beauty.
And I will cause your wickedness to cease from you, and your fornication from the land of Egypt. And you shall not lift up your eyes to them, and Egypt shall not be remembered by you any more.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give you in the hand of those whom you hate, in the hand of whom your soul was alienated from them.
And they shall deal with you in hatred and take all your wealth, and shall leave you naked and bare. And the nudity of your adulteries will be bared, even your lewdness and your fornications.
These will be done to you because you have whored after the nations, because you are defiled with their idols.
You have walked in the way of your sister, and I will give her cup into your hand.
So says the Lord Jehovah: You shall drink your sister's cup deep and wide; you shall be laughed at and mocked, for it holds much.
With drunkenness and sorrow you are filled, the cup of horror and ruin, the cup of your sister Samaria.
And you shall drink it and drain it. And you shall break its fragments and tear off your breasts. For I have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Because you have forgotten Me and cast Me behind your back, so also you bear your wickedness and your adulteries.
And Jehovah said to me, Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? Then declare to them their abominations.
For they committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. Yea, they committed adultery with their idols, and even their sons whom they bore to Me, they cause to pass to them to be consumed.
Even still they have done this to Me: They have defiled My sanctuary in that day, and have profaned My sabbaths.
And when they had slain their sons to their idols, then they came into My sanctuary in that day to profane it. And, lo, this they have done in the midst of My house.
Furthermore, they have sent for men to come from a distance, of whom a messenger was sent to them. And behold, they came, for whom you washed, painted your eyes, and were adorned with gems.
And you sat on a glorious bed, and a table was arranged before it, and My incense and My oil you set on it.
And the sound of a crowd at ease was with her, and drunkards from the wilderness were brought with the men of the host of mankind. And they put bracelets on their hands and crowns of beauty on their heads.
Then I said about the one worn in adulteries, Will they now fornicate with her, and she with them ?
And they went in to her. As they go in to a woman of harlotry, so they went in to Oholah and to Oholibah, the wicked women.
And as righteous men, they shall judge them with the judgment of adulteresses, and the judgment of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: Bring up on them an assembly, and give them to terror and plunder.
And the assembly shall stone them with stones and cut them down with their swords. They shall slay their sons and their daughters, and they shall burn their houses with fire.
So I will cause to cease wickedness out of the land, that all the women may be taught, even not to do according to your wickedness.
And they shall put your wickedness on you, and you shall bear the sins of your idols. And you shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.