And it shall be, when thou have come in to the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee for an inheritance, and possess it, and dwell in it,
that thou shall take of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which thou shall bring in from thy land that Jehovah thy God gives thee, and thou shall put it in a basket, and shall go to the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose to cause his name to dwell there.
And thou shall come to the priest who shall be in those days, and say to him, I profess this day to Jehovah thy God, that I have come to the land which Jehovah swore to our fathers to give us.
And the priest shall take the basket out of thy hand, and set it down before the altar of Jehovah thy God.
And thou shall answer and say before Jehovah thy God, My father was a Syrian ready to perish, and he went down into Egypt, and sojourned there, few in number. And he became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous.
And the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and laid upon us hard bondage.
And we cried to Jehovah, the God of our fathers, and Jehovah heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our toil, and our oppression.
And Jehovah brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terribleness, and with signs, and with wonders.
And he has brought us into this place, and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
And now, behold, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which thou, O Jehovah, have given me. And thou shall set it down before Jehovah thy God, and worship before Jehovah thy God.
And thou shall rejoice in all the good which Jehovah thy God has given to thee, and to thy house, thou, and the Levite, and the sojourner who is in the midst of thee.
When thou have made an end of tithing all the tithe of thine increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, then thou shall give it to the Levite, to the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within thy gates, and be filled.
And thou shall say before Jehovah thy God, I have put away the hallowed things out of my house, and also have given them to the Levite, and to the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all thy commandment which thou have commanded me. I have not transgressed any of thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them.
I have not eaten of it in my mourning, neither have I put away from it, being unclean, nor given of it for the dead. I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah my God. I have done according to all that thou have commanded me.
Look down from thy holy habitation, from heaven, and bless thy people Israel, and the ground which thou have given us, as thou swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
This day Jehovah thy God commands thee to do these statutes and ordinances. Thou shall therefore keep and do them with all thy heart, and with all thy soul.
Thou have avouched Jehovah this day to be thy God, and that thou would walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his ordinances, and hearken to his voice.
And Jehovah has avouched thee this day to be a people for his own possession, as he has promised thee, and that thou should keep all his commandments,
and to make thee high above all nations that he has made, in praise, and in name, and in honor, and that thou may be a holy people to Jehovah thy God, as he has spoken.