Then commanded he him who was over his house saying—Fill the sacks of the men, with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man’s silver in the mouth of his sack;
and my cup—the cup of silver, shalt thou put in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, with his corn-silver. So he did, according to the word of Joseph, which he had spoken.
By the time, the morning, was light, the men, had been sent away, they, and their asses.
They themselves, had gone out of the city—they had not gone far, when Joseph said to him who was over his house, Rise chase after the men,—so shalt thou overtake them and shalt say unto them, Wherefore have ye requited evil for good?
Is not this that in which my lord drinketh, and whereby, he himself, doth divine? Ye have done evil in what ye have done.
So he overtook them,—and spake unto them these words.
And they said unto him, Wherefore should my lord speak such words as these? Far be thy servants, from doing such a thing as this!
Lo! the silver that we found in the mouth of our sacks, we brought back unto thee out of the land of Canaan,—how then could we steal out of the house of thy lord, silver or gold?
With whomsoever of thy servants it can be found, he shall die,—and, we also, will become my lord’s servants.
And he said, Yea, now, according to your words, so, let it be,—he with whom it is found, shall be my servant, Ye, however, shall be clear.
So they hastened and took down each man his sack to the ground,—and opened each man his sack.
Then made he thorough search, with the eldest, he began, and with the youngest, he ended,—and the cup was found in the sack of Benjamin!
And they rent their mantles,—and laded each man his ass, and returned to the city.
And Judah and his brethren came into the house of Joseph, he, yet being there,—and fell down before him to the earth.
And Joseph said to them, What is this deed which ye have done? Know ye not that such a man as I, can even divine?
Then said Judah—What shall we say to my lord, how shall we speak and how shall we justify ourselves,—when, God himself, hath found out the iniquity of thy servants? Behold us! my lord’s servants, both we, and he in whose hand the cup hath been found.
And he said, Far be it from me to do this thing! The man in whose hand the cup hath been found, he, shall be my servant, but as for you, go ye up in peace unto your father.
Then Judah drew near unto him, and said—Pardon my lord! Pray let thy servant speak a word in the ears of my lord, and do not let thine anger be kindled against thy servant,—for, thus, art, thou as Pharaoh!
It was, my lord, who asked his servants, saying,—Have ye a father, or a brother?
So we said unto my lord, We have an aged father, and the child of his old age a youth,—his brother, being dead, he alone, is left of his mother and, his father, loveth him.
So then thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me,—that I may set mine eyes upon him.
And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father,—as surely as he leaveth his father, so surely will he, die.
And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother do come down with you, ye shall not again behold my face.
So it came to pass when we had gone up unto thy servant, my father, that we told him the words of my lord.
Then said our father,—Go again buy us a little food,
And we said, We cannot go down,—If our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down, for we cannot see the face of the man if, our youngest brother, is not with us.
Then said thy servant my father, unto us,—Ye yourselves, know, that, two, did my wife bear to me,
and the one went forth from me, and I said—Certainly he hath been, torn in pieces,—And I have never seen him since.
As surely as ye take, this one also, away from before my face and there befall him any mischief, so surely shall ye bring down my grey hairs, with misfortune to hades.
Now, therefore, as surely as I go in unto thy servant my father, and, the lad, is not with us,—seeing that his soul is bound up with the lad’s soul,
so surely shall it come to pass that when he seeth that the lad is not with us, then will he die. So shall thy servants bring down the grey hairs of thy servant our father, with sorrow to hades.
For thy servant, became surety for the lad, while away from my father saying,—If I bring him not unto thee, then will I count myself a sinner against my father all the days.
Now, therefore, I pray thee let thy servant remain instead of the lad, as servant to my lord,—but as for the lad, let him go up with his brethren.
For how can I go up unto my father, should the lad, not be with me? lest I look on the calamity, that shall find out my father,