And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel. And you shall say to them, This is the thing which Jehovah has commanded, saying,
Any man of the house of Israel who kills an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or who kills at the outside of the camp,
and has not brought it in to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation as an offering to Jehovah, before the tabernacle of Jehovah, blood shall be imputed to that man; he has shed blood. And that man shall be cut off from the midst of his people;
so that the sons of Israel shall bring in their sacrifices which they are sacrificing in the open field to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to the priest, and sacrifice them for sacrifices of peace offerings to Jehovah.
And the priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of Jehovah, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall burn the fat as incense for a soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And they shall not sacrifice their sacrifices any more to goats, after which they have gone whoring. This is a perpetual statute to them throughout their generations.
And you shall say to them, Any man of the house of Israel, or of aliens who sojourn in your midst, who offers burnt offering or sacrifice,
and does not bring it in to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation to offer it to Jehovah, that man shall be cut off from his people.
And any man of the house of Israel, or of the alien who is staying in your midst, who eats any blood, I will set My face against that person that eats blood and will cut him off from his people.
For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar, to atone for your souls; for it is the blood which makes atonement for the soul.
For this reason I have said to the sons of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood; and the alien who is staying in your midst shall not eat blood.
And any man of the sons of Israel, or of the aliens who stay in your midst, who hunts game, beast or fowl, which is eaten, shall even pour out its blood and shall cover it with dust.
For it is the life of all flesh; its blood is for its life. And I say to the sons of Israel You shall not eat blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is in the blood; anyone eating it is cut off.
And any person who eats a dead body or torn thing, be he a native, or an alien, he shall wash his clothes and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening; then he shall be clean.
And if he does not wash them, nor bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.