AFTER these things Jesus went beyond the sea of Galilee, that is of Tiberias.
And a vast multitude followed him, because they saw the miracles which he performed on those who were diseased.
Then Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat down with his disciple.
And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.
Then Jesus lifting up his eyes, and seeing that a vast concourse of people was come to him, said to Philip, Whence shall we buy loaves, that these may eat?
And this he said to try him: for himself knew what he would do.
Philip answered him, Two hundred denarii spent in bread would not procure a sufficiency for them, that every one of them might have a morsel.
One of his disciples saith to him, (Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother,)
There is a little lad here, who hath five barley-loaves, and two small fishes: but these, what are they among so many?
Then said Jesus, Make the men sit down. For there was plenty of grass on the spot. Therefore the men sat down, in number about five thousand.
And Jesus took the loaves; and giving thanks, gave to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sat down; and in the same manner of the fishes, as much as they chose.
And when they had made a hearty meal, he saith to his disciples, Gather up the broken bits which are left, that not a morsel be wasted.
Then they collected them, and filled twelve baskets with fragments out of the five barley-loaves, which were more than enough for those who had eaten.
When therefore the men saw the miracle which Jesus had done, they said, This is of a certainty that prophet which is to come into the world.
Then Jesus, knowing their intention to come and to seize him by force, in order to make him king, retired again into the mountain by himself alone.
So when evening was now come, his disciples went down to the sea-side,
and embarking on a vessel were coming across the sea to Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them.
And the sea was greatly agitated by a tempestuous wind that blew.
Having rowed therefore about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they saw Jesus walking on the sea, and coming near the vessel, and they were affrighted.
But he saith to them, It is I; be not afraid.
Then they desired to take him into the vessel: and instantly the vessel was at the land whither they were going.
The next day the multitude who stayed on the other side of the sea, when they saw that there was no little vessel there, except the one into which his disciples went, and that Jesus went not with his disciples in the vessel, but that his disciples went away alone;
(but now little vessels had come from Tiberias near to the spot where they had eaten bread, after the Lord had given thanks:)
then when the multitude saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they also went into the vessels, and came to Capernaum, in search of Jesus.
And when they found him on the other side the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
Jesus replied to them and said, Ye seek me, not because ye have seen the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.
Labour not for the meat which is perishable, but for that meat which endureth unto life eternal, which the Son of man will give you: for him hath the Father sealed, even God.
Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we may work the works of God?
Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye should believe on him whom he hath sent.
Then said they to him, What miracle therefore dost thou, that we may see and believe thee? what dost thou work?
Our fathers did eat manna in the wilderness; as it is written, “He gave them bread from heaven to eat.”
Then said Jesus unto them, Verily, verily, I tell you, It was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the real bread from heaven.
For he that cometh down from heaven, and giveth life to the world, is the bread of God.
Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.
Then said Jesus to them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst more.
But I have told you, That though ye have seen me, yet ye have not believed.
Every individual which the Father giveth me will come to me; and him that cometh to me I will in nowise cast out.
For I came down from heaven, not with a view to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me.
Now this is the will of the Father who sent me, That every thing which he hath given me I should not be deprived of it, but raise it up at the last day.
And this is the will of him that sent me, That every one who seeth the Son, and believeth on him, should have life eternal: and I will raise him up at the last day.
Then the Jews murmured against him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven.
And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how then saith this man, That I came down from heaven?
Jesus answered and said to them, Murmur not among yourselves.
No man can come to me, except the Father who hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.
It is written in the prophets, And “they shall all be taught of God.” Every one therefore who heareth from the Father, and learneth, cometh to me.
Not that any man hath seen the Father, except he that is with God, he hath seen the Father.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.
I am the bread of life.
Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and they are dead.
This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that any person may eat of it, and never die.
I am the bread that giveth life, which came down from heaven: if any person eat of this bread, he shall live to eternity; and the bread indeed which I shall give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
Then the Jews contended with each other, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat?
Jesus therefore said to them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in yourselves.
He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath life eternal: and I will raise him up at the last day.
For my flesh truly is meat, and my blood truly is drink.
He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, abideth in me, and I in him.
As the life-giving Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father; so he that eateth me, the same shall live by me.
This is the bread which came down from heaven, not as the manna your fathers did eat, and died: he that eateth this bread shall live to eternity.
These things he spake in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
Many therefore of his disciples, who heard him, said, Difficult is this discourse, who is able to fathom it?
Then Jesus, conscious in himself that his disciples murmured concerning this discourse, said unto them, Doth this stumble you?
What then if ye see the Son of man ascending where he was formerly?
The Spirit is the life-giving power; the flesh contributeth nothing: the declarations which I make to you, they are spirit, and they are life.
But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe, and who the person was that should betray him.
And he said, Therefore have I informed you, That no man can come to me, except it be given him of my Father.
From that discourse many of his disciples went away back, and no more followed him about.
Then said Jesus to the twelve, Will ye also go away?
Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, unto whom shall we go from thee? thou hast the words of eternal life.
And we have believed and known that thou art the Messiah, the Son of the living God.
Jesus answered them, Have I not chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?
Now he spake of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon: for this man was ready to betray him, though he was one of the twelve.