And after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John his brother, and brought them up into a high mountain apart.
And He was transfigured before them. And His face shone as the sun, and His clothing was white as the light.
And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with Him.
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If You will, let us make here three tabernacles; one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
While he yet spoke, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. And behold a voice out of the cloud which said, This is My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased, hear Him.
And when the disciples heard, they fell on their face and were greatly terrified.
And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise and do not be terrified.
And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one except Jesus alone.
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no one until the Son of man has risen from the dead.
And His disciples asked Him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And answering Jesus said to them, Elijah truly shall come first and restore all things.
But I say to you that Elijah has come already, and they did not know him, but have done to him whatever they desired. Likewise also the Son of man shall suffer from them.
Then His disciples understood that He spoke to them about John the Baptist.
And when they came to the crowd, a man came to Him, kneeling down to Him and saying,
Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic and grievously vexed; for oftentimes he falls into the fire, and often into the water.
And I brought him to Your disciples, and they could not cure him.
Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him here to Me.
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and he departed out of him. And the child was cured from that very hour.
Then the disciples came to Jesus apart, and said, Why could we not cast him out?
And Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief. For truly I say to you, If you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you shall say to this mountain, Move from here to there. And it shall move. And nothing shall be impossible to you.
However, this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.
And while they stayed in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men.
And they will kill Him, and the third day He will be raised again. And they grieved exceedingly.
And when they had come to Capernaum, those who received the didrachmas came to Peter and said, Does your master not pay the didrachmas?
He said, Yes. And when he had come into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? From their sons, or from strangers?
Peter said to Him, From strangers. Jesus said to him, Then truly the sons are free.
But lest we should offend them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and take up the first fish that comes up. And when you have opened its mouth, you shall find a stater; take that, and give it to them for Me and you.