Now, in the fifteenth year of the supremacy of Tiberius Caesar,—Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and, Philip his brother, tetrarch of Ituraea and the country of Trachonitis, and Lysanius, tetrarch of Abylene,—
in the High-priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, came a word of God unto John the son, of Zechariah, in rue desert;
and he came into all the country about the Jordan, proclaiming an immersion of repentance into remission of sins:
as it is written in the book of the discourses of Isaiah the prophet: A voice of one crying aloud! In the desert, prepare ye the way of the Lord, straight, be making his paths;
Every chasm, shall be filled up, and, every mountain and hill, be made low; and the, crooked, places shall become, straight, and the, rugged, places, smooth ways;—
And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
He was saying, therefore, unto the multitudes who were going forth to be immersed by him—Broods of vipers! who suggested to you, to flee from the coming wrath?
Bring forth, therefore, fruits worthy of repentance, and do not begin to be saying within yourselves, As our father, we have, Abraham; for, I say unto you—God is able, out of these stones, to raise up children unto Abraham.
And, already, even the axe, unto the root of the trees is being laid; every tree, therefore, not bringing forth [good] fruit, is to be hewn down, and, into fire, to be cast.
And the multitude began to question him saying—What, then, shall we do?
And, answering, he said unto them—He that hath two tunics, let him share with him that hath none, and, he that hath food, in like manner, let him be doing.
And there came, even tax-collectors, to be immersed; and they said unto him—Teacher! what, shall we, do?
And, he, said unto them, Nothing more than what is appointed you, exact ye.
Then were questioning him, soldiers also, saying—What shall, even we, do? And he said unto them—Molest ye, no one, neither accuse falsely; and be content with your supplies.
Now, as the people were in expectation, and all were deliberating in their hearts, concerning John,—whether by any means, he, might be, the Christ,
John answered, saying unto all—I, indeed, in water, am immersing you, but he that is mightier than I, cometh, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to unloose,—he, will immerse you in Holy Spirit and fire:
whose fan is in his hand, to clear out his threshing-floor, and to gather the wheat into his granary; but, the chaff, will he burn up with fire unquenchable.
So then indeed, as to many things and various, he exhorted, and continued telling his glad-message unto the people.
But, Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him concerning Herodias, the wife of his brother, and concerning all the wicked things Herod had done,
added this also unto all,—he locked up John in prison.
Now it came to pass, when one and all the people were immersed, Jesus also, having been immersed, and being at prayer, heaven was opened;
and the Holy Spirit descended, in bodily appearance, as a dove, upon him,—and, a voice out of heaven, came—Thou, art my Son, the Beloved, in thee, I delight.
And, Jesus himself, was, when he began, about thirty years of age, being the son, as was supposed—of Joseph, of Heli:
of Matthat, of Levi, of Melchi,—of Jannai, of Joseph:
of Mattathias, of Amos, of Nahum,—of Esli, of Naggai:
of Maath, of Mattathias, of Semein,—of Josech, of Joda:
of Joanan, of Rhesa, of Zerubbabel,—of Salathiel, of Neri:
of Melchi, of Addi, of Cosam,—of Elmadam, of Er:
of Jesus, of Eliezer, of Jorim,—of Matthat, of Levi:
of Symeon, of Judas, of Joseph,—of Jonam, of Eliakim:
of Melea, of Menna, of Mattatha,—of Natham, of David:
of Jesse, of Obed, of Boaz,—of Salmon, of Nashon:
of Amminadab, of Arni, of Hezron,—of Perez, of Judah:
of Jacob, of Isaac, of Abraham,—of Terah, of Nahor:
of Serug, of Reu, of Peleg,—of Eber, of Shelah:
of Cainan, of Arphaxad, of Shem,—of Noah, of Lamech:
of Methuselah, of Enoch, of Jared,—of Mahalaleel, of Cainan:
of Enos, of Seth,—of Adam; of God.