Loe, mine eye hath seene all this: mine eare hath heard, and vnderstande it.
I knowe also as much as you knowe: I am not inferiour vnto you.
But I will speake to the Almightie, and I desire to dispute with God.
For in deede ye forge lyes, and all you are physitions of no value.
Oh, that you woulde holde your tongue, that it might be imputed to you for wisedome!
Nowe heare my disputation, and giue eare to the arguments of my lips.
Will ye speake wickedly for Gods defence, and talke deceitfully for his cause?
Will ye accept his person? or will ye contende for God?
Is it well that he shoulde seeke of you? will you make a lye for him, as one lyeth for a man?
He will surely reprooue you, if ye doe secretly accept any person.
Shall not his excellencie make you afraid? and his feare fall vpon you?
Your memories may be compared vnto ashes, and your bodyes to bodyes of clay.
Holde your tongues in my presence, that I may speake, and let come vpon what will.
Wherefore doe I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my soule in mine hande?
Loe, though he slay me, yet will I trust in him, and I will reprooue my wayes in his sight.
He shalbe my saluation also: for the hypocrite shall not come before him.
Heare diligently my wordes, and marke my talke.
Beholde nowe: if I prepare me to iudgement, I knowe that I shalbe iustified.
Who is he, that will pleade with me? for if I nowe holde my tongue, I dye.
But doe not these two things vnto me: then will I not hide my selfe from thee.
Withdrawe thine hande from me, and let not thy feare make me afraide.
Then call thou, and I will answere: or let me speake, and answere thou me.
Howe many are mine iniquities and sinnes? shewe me my rebellion, and my sinne.
Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and takest me for thine enemie?
Wilt thou breake a leafe driuen to and from? and wilt thou pursue the drie stubble?
For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possesse the iniquities of my youth.
Thou puttest my feete also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly vnto all my pathes, and makest the print thereof in ye heeles of my feet.
Such one consumeth like a rotten thing, and as a garment that is motheaten.