My GOD, my GOD, why hast thou forsaken me? Far from saving me, The words of my loud lamentation?
My God! I keep crying—By day, and thou dost not answer, and, By night, and there is no rest for me.
But, thou, art holy, Who inhabitest the praises of Israel.
In thee, trusted our fathers, They trusted, and thou didst deliver them;
Unto thee, made they outcry, and escaped, In thee, they trusted, and had not turned pale.
But, I, am a worm and no one, a reproach of men, and despised of a people;
All that see me, laugh at me,—They open wide the mouth, They shake the head:—
He should trust in Yahweh—let him deliver him,—Let him rescue him, seeing he delighteth in him.
For, thou, art he that severed me from the womb, he that caused me to trust, upon the breasts of my mother;
Upon thee, was I cast from the time I was born, From the womb of my mother, my GOD, hast thou been.
Be not far from me, for, distress, is near, For there is none to help.
Many bulls have surrounded me, Strong oxen of Bashan, have enclosed me;
They have opened wide against me their mouth, A lion rending and roaring.
Like water, am I poured out, and, put out of joint, are all my bones,—My heart, hath become, like wax, it is melted in the midst of my body;
Dried as a potsherd, is my strength, And, my tongue, is made to cleave to my gums, And, in the dust of death, wilt thou lay me.
For dogs have surrounded me,—An assembly of evil doers, have encircled me, They have pierced my hands and my feet,
I may tell all my bones, They, look for—they behold me!
They part my garments among them, and, for my vestment, they cast lots.
But, thou, O Yahweh, be not far off, O my help! to aid me, make haste;
Rescue, from the sword, my life, from the power of the dog, my solitary self:
Save me from the mouth of the lion,—Yea, from the horns of wild beasts, hast thou delivered me.
I will declare thy Name unto my brethren,—In the midst of the convocation, will I praise thee.
Ye that revere Yahweh, praise him, All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him, And, stand in awe of him, all ye seed of Israel.
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the humbling of the patient one, neither hath he hid his face from him, but, when he cried for help unto him, he heard.
Of thee, is my praise in the great convocation, My vows, will I pay, before them who revere him.
The patient wronged-ones shall eat and be satisfied, They shall praise Yahweh, who are seekers of him, Let your heart live for aye.
All the ends of the earth, will remember and turn to Yahweh, Yea all the families of the nations, will bow themselves down before thee,
For, to Yahweh, belongeth the kingdom, And One to Rule over the nations.
All the great ones of the earth, shall eat and bow down, Before him shall kneel, all that go down to the dust, Even he who had not kept alive, his own soul!
My seed, shall serve him, It shall be recounted, of the Lord, to a generation that shall come:
That his righteousness may be declared to a people to be born, That he wrought with effect!