And I looked, and behold! In the expanse over the head of the cherubs appeared the look of the form of a throne, like a sapphire stone, above them.
And He spoke to the man clothed with linen, and said, Go in among the wheels, under the cherub, and fill your hands with coals of fire from between the cherubs, and scatter them on the city. And he went in before me.
And the cherubs were standing on the right side of the house when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.
And the glory of the LORD rose from the cherub, over the threshold of the house. And the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD's glory.
And the sound of the cherubs' wings was heard over the outer court, as the voice of the Almighty God when He speaks.
And it happened when He had commanded the man clothed with linen, saying, Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubs; he went in then and stood beside the wheels.
And a cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubs to the fire between the cherubs, and he lifted it and put it into the hands of the one clothed with linen. And he took it and went out.
And the form of a man's hand was seen under the wings of the cherubs.
And I looked, and behold, the four wheels were beside the cherubs, one wheel was by one cherub, and another wheel by one cherub; and the wheels looked like the color of a stone of Tarshish.
And their appearance was as one, the four of them, as if the wheel were in the midst of the wheel.
When they went, they went on their four sides. They did not turn as they went, for to the place where the head faces, after it they went. They did not turn as they went.
And their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes all around, even their wheels that the four of them had.
As for the wheels, it was cried to them in my hearing, Whirling wheel!
And four faces were to each one. The first face was the face of a cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.
And the cherubs rose up. This is the living creature that I saw by the river of Chebar.
And when the cherubs went, the wheels went beside them; and when the cherubs lifted their wings to soar from the earth, the wheels did not turn from beside them, even they.
When they stood still, these stood still, and when they rose up, these lifted up. For the spirit of the living creature was in them.
And the glory of the LORD went from the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubs.
And the cherubs lifted up their wings and rose up from the earth in my sight. When they went out, the wheels also were beside them. And he stood at the door of the eastern gate of the LORD's house. And the glory of the God of Israel was over them from above.
This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar, and I knew that they were cherubs.
Four, even four faces are to each; and four wings to each. And the form of a man's hands was under their wings.
And the form of their faces, they are the faces that I saw by the river Chebar, their appearances even theirs. They each went straight forward.