And these are the priests and the Levites who went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
Shechaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah,
Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah,
Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the rulers of the priests and their brothers in the days of Jeshua.
And the Levites were Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah. Mattaniah was over the thanksgiving, he and his brothers.
And Bakbukiah and Unni, their brothers, were next to them in the watches.
And Jeshua fathered Joiakim, and Joiakim fathered Eliashib; and Eliashib fathered Joiada;
and Joiada fathered Jonathan; and Jonathan fathered Jaddua.
And in the days of Joiakim were priests, the rulers of the fathers, from the house of Seraiah was Meraiah; from Jeremiah was Hananiah;
from Ezra was Meshullam; from Amariah was Jehohanan;
from Melicu was Jonathan; from Shebaniah was Joseph;
from Harim was Adna; from Meraioth was Helkai;
from Iddo was Zechariah; from Ginnethon was Meshullam;
from Abijah was Zichri; from Miniamin, of Moadiah was Piltai;
from Bilgah was Shammua; from Shemaiah was Jehonathan;
and from Joiarib was Mattenai; from Jedaiah was Uzzi;
from Sallai was Kallai; from Amok was Eber;
from Hilkiah was Hashabiah; from Jedaiah was Nethaneel.
The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, were written rulers of the fathers; also the priests until the reign of Darius the Persian.
The sons of the Levites, the rulers of the fathers, are written in the Book of the Matters of the Days, even until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib.
And the rulers of the Levites were Hashabiah; Sherebiah; and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brothers next to them, to praise, to give thanks according to the command of David the man of God, watch by watch.
Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were guards of the gates, the guard at the thresholds of the gates.
These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest, the scribe.
And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites out of all their places to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, and with thanksgiving, and with singing, with cymbals, harps, and with lyres.
And the sons of the singers gathered themselves, both out of the plain country around Jerusalem, and from the villages of the inhabitants of Netophah;
and from the house of Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth (for the singers had built themselves villages all around Jerusalem).
And the priests and the Levites purified themselves. And they purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.
Then I brought up the rulers of Judah on the wall, and chose two great thanksgiving choirs. One went to the right on the wall toward the Dung Gate,
and after them went Hoshaiah, and half the rulers of Judah;
even Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam,
Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah;
and many of the priests' sons with trumpets, Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Michaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph,
and his brothers, Shemaiah, and Azareel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethaneel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God. And Ezra the scribe was before them.
And at the Fountain Gate across from them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall above the house of David, even to the Water Gate eastward.
And the other thanksgiving choir was going to the opposite side , and I after them, and half of the people on the wall, from beyond the Tower of Furnaces, even to the Broad Wall;
and from above the Ephraim Gate, and above the Old Gate, and above the Fish Gate, and the Tower of Hananeel, and the Tower of Meah, even to the Sheep Gate. And they stood still in the Prison Gate.
So the two thanksgiving choirs stood in the house of God, and I, and half of the rulers with me.
And the priests, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah were with trumpets.
And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer; and the singers sang aloud with Jezrahiah as their overseer.
And that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced. For God had made them rejoice with great joy. And the wives, and the children rejoiced so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even at a distance.
And at that time some were chosen over the rooms for the treasuries, for the offerings for the firstfruits, and for the tithes, to gather to them out of the fields of the cities the portions of the Law for the priests and the Levites. For Judah rejoiced for the priests, and for the Levites who waited.
And both the singers and the gatekeepers kept the watch of their God, and the watch of the cleansing, according to the command of David, of his son Solomon.
For in the past days of David and Asaph, there were heads of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving to God.
And all Israel gave the portions of the singers and the gatekeepers, everyday its portion, in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah. And they set the holy things apart for the Levites; and the Levites set apart for the sons of Aaron.