A soft answer turns away wrath, but a grievous word stirs up anger.
The tongue of the wise utters knowledge rightly, but the mouth of fools pours out folly.
The eyes of Jehovah are in every place, keeping watch upon the evil and the good.
A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it is a breaking of the spirit.
A fool despises his father's correction, but he who regards reproof gets prudence.
In the house of a righteous man is much treasure, but in the revenues of a wicked man is trouble.
The lips of the wise disperse knowledge, but the heart of the foolish, not so.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to Jehovah, but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
The way of a wicked man is an abomination to Jehovah, but he loves him who follows after righteousness.
There is grievous correction for him who forsakes the way. He who hates reproof shall die.
Sheol and Abaddon are before Jehovah. How much more then the hearts of the sons of men!
A scoffer does not like to be reproved. He will not go to the wise.
A glad heart makes a cheerful countenance, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken.
The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouth of fools feeds on folly.
All the days of the afflicted are evil, but he who is of a cheerful heart has a continual feast.
Better is little with the fear of Jehovah, than great treasure and trouble with it.
Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a fatted ox and hatred with it.
A wrathful man stirs up contention, but he who is slow to anger appeases strife.
The way of the sluggard is as a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is made a highway.
A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother.
Folly is joy to him who is void of wisdom, but a man of understanding makes his going straight.
Where there is no counsel, plans are disappointed, but in the multitude of counselors they are established.
A man has joy in the answer of his mouth, and a word in due season, how good it is!
To the wise man the way of life is upward, that he may depart from Sheol beneath.
Jehovah will root up the house of the proud, but he will establish the border of the widow.
Evil devices are an abomination to Jehovah, but pleasant words are pure.
He who is greedy of gain troubles his own house, but he who hates bribes shall live.
The heart of a righteous man meditates to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
Jehovah is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes rejoices the heart. Good news make the bones fat.
The ear that hearkens to the reproof of life shall abide among the wise.
He who refuses correction despises his own soul, but he who hearkens to reproof gets understanding.
The fear of Jehovah is the instruction of wisdom, and before honor is humility.