Now after two days was the Passover and the unleavened bread. And the chief priests and the scholars sought how, having take him with trickery, they might kill him,
but they said, Not during the feast, lest there will be an uproar of the people.
And while he was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat relaxing, a woman came having an alabaster cruse of ointment of pure spikenard, very valuable. And having broken the alabaster cruse, she poured it on his head.
And some were indignant within themselves, saying, Why has this waste of the ointment happened?
For this could have been sold for over three hundred denarii, and given to the poor. And they grumbled at her.
But Jesus said, Leave her be. Why do ye cause troubles for her? She performed a good work on me.
For ye always have the poor with you, and whenever ye may desire ye can do them well, but ye do not always have me.
She applied what she had to anoint my body. She did it beforehand for the burial.
And truly I say to you, wherever this good news may be preached in the whole world, also what she did will be told for a memorial of her.
And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests, so that he might betray him to them.
And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him silver. And he sought how he might betray him conveniently.
And on the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the Passover, his disciples say to him, Where do thou want, after going, we should prepare that thou may eat the Passover?
And he sends forth two of his disciples, and says to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you. Follow him.
And wherever he may enter, say ye to the house-ruler, The teacher says, Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
And he himself will show you a large upper room spread out ready. Prepare ye for us there.
And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found just as he had said to them. And they prepared the Passover.
And having become evening he comes with the twelve.
And as they were relaxing and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, that one of you eating with me will betray me.
They began to be sorrowful, and to say to him one by one, Not I? and another, Not I?
And having answered, he said to them, It is one of the twelve dipping with me in the dish.
The Son of man indeed goes as it is written about him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of man is betrayed! It was good for him if that man was not born.
And as they were eating, Jesus having taken bread, having blessed, he broke in pieces, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat, this is my body.
And after taking the cup, having expressed thanks, he gave to them, and they all drank from it.
And he said to them, This is my blood of the new covenant, which is poured out for many.
Truly I say to you, that I will no more drink of the fruit of the grapevine, until that day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God.
And when they sang a hymn, they went out onto the mount of Olives.
And Jesus says to them, All ye will be caused to stumble by me this night, because it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.
But after I am raised up, I will go before you into Galilee.
But Peter said to him, Even if all will be caused to stumble, yet not I.
And Jesus says to him, Truly I say to thee, that thou today, in this night, before a cock sounds twice, will deny me thrice.
But he spoke more extreme, If I must die with thee, I will, no, not deny thee. And they all spoke the same way also.
And they come to a place the name of which was Gethsemane. And he says to his disciples, Sit ye here until I pray.
And he takes Peter and James and John with him, and began to be greatly disturbed, and very distressed.
And he says to them, My soul is deeply grieved, to the point of death. Remain ye here, and watch.
And having gone forward a little, he fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.
And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible to thee. Remove this cup from me, but not what I want, but what thou want.
And he comes and finds them sleeping. And he says to Peter, Simon, Do thou sleep? Could thou not watch one hour?
Watch ye and pray that ye may not enter into temptation. Truly, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
And again having departed, he prayed, having said the same statement.
And having returned, he found them again sleeping, for their eyes were weighed down, and they knew not what they should reply to him.
And he comes the third time, and says to them, Sleep the remaining, and take your rest. It is enough. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Arise, let us be going. Behold, he who betrays me has come near.
And straightaway, while he still spoke, Judas, being one of the twelve, comes, and with him a great multitude with swords and clubs from the chief priests, and the scholars, and the elders.
Now he who betrayed him had given them a sign, saying, Whomever I may kiss is he. Seize him, and lead away securely.
And when he came, straightaway having approached him, he says, Rabbi, Rabbi, and kissed him much.
And they threw their hands on him, and seized him.
And a certain one of those who stood by, having drawn his sword, struck the bondman of the high priest, and cut off his ear.
And having answered, Jesus said to them, Have ye come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to arrest me?
I was daily near you, teaching in the temple, and ye did not seize me-but that the scriptures might be fulfilled.
And having forsook him, they all fled.
And a certain one young man followed with him, having been wrapped naked in a linen cloth. And the young men seized him,
but having left behind the linen cloth, he fled from them naked.
And they led Jesus away to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scholars assemble with him.
And Peter followed him from a distance, as far as inside the courtyard of the high priest, and was sitting with the subordinates, and warming himself near the light.
Now the chief priests and the whole council sought testimony against Jesus in order to put him to death, and did not find it.
For many testified falsely against him, and their testimonies were not consistent.
And some men having stood up, testified falsely against him, saying,
We heard him saying, I will destroy this temple made with hands, and by three days I will build another not made with hands.
And not even this way was their testimony consistent.
And the high priest having stood up in the midst, he demanded Jesus, saying, Thou answer nothing? What is it these men testify against thee?
But he remained silent, and answered nothing. Again the high priest demanded him, and says to him, Are thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
And Jesus said, I am. And ye will see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of the sky.
And the high priest having torn his clothes, he says, What further need have we of witnesses?
Ye have heard the blasphemy. What does it seem to you? And they all condemned him to be deserving of death.
And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to strike him with a fist, and to say to him, Prophesy. And the subordinates were throwing him with slaps.
And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest comes.
And having seen Peter warming himself, having looked at him, she says, Thou also were with Jesus of Nazareth.
But he denied, saying, I know not, nor understand what thou say. And he went outside onto the porch, and a cock sounded.
And the servant girl having seen him, she began again to say to those who stood by, This man is from them.
But he again denied it. And after a little while again those who stood by said to Peter, Surely thou are from them, for thou are a Galilean, and thy accent is similar.
But he began to curse and to swear, I do not know this man of whom ye speak.
And the second time a cock sounded. And Peter remembered the saying that Jesus said to him, Before a cock sounds twice, thou will deny me thrice. And having broke down, he wept.