But Sarai, Abram’s wife, had borne him no children,—she had, however, an Egyptian handmaid, whose name was Hagar.
So then Sarai said unto Abram Behold, I pray thee, Yahweh hath restrained me, from bearing, go in I pray thee unto, my handmaid, peradventure I may be built up from, her, And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.
So Sarai, Abram’s wife, took Hagar the Egyptian. her handmaid, at the end of ten years of Abram’s dwelling in the land of Canaan, and gave her to Abram her husband, to be to him as a wife.
And he went in unto Hagar and she conceived,—and when she saw that she had conceived, lightly esteemed, was her lady, in her eyes.
Then said Sarai unto Abram: My wrong, is, on thee! I, gave my handmaid into thy bosom, and when she seeth that she hath conceived, then am I lightly esteemed in her eyes Yahweh judge betwixt me and her.
And Abram said unto Sarai, Lo! thy handmaid, is in thy hand, do to her what is good in thine eyes. So Sarai humbled her, and she fled from her face.
And the messenger of Yahweh found her by the fountain of water in the desert,—by the fountain in the way to Shur.
So he said Hagar! handmaid of Sarai! Whence hast thou come, and whither wouldst thou go? And she said, From the face of Sarai, my lady, am, I, fleeing.
And the messenger of Yahweh said to her, Return unto thy lady,—and humble thyself under her hands.
And the messenger of Yahweh said to her, I will, greatly multiply, thy seed—so that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
And the messenger of Yahweh said to her, Behold thee! with child, and about bearing a son—and thou shalt call his name Ishmael [="God hearkeneth"] for Yahweh hath hearkened unto thy humiliation.
But, he, will be a wild ass of a man, his hand, against every one, and every one’s hand against him—yet, in presence of all his brethren, shall he have his habitation.
And she called the name of Yahweh, who had spoken unto her, Thou GOD of vision! For she said. Do I even here, retain my vision after a vision?
On this account, is the well called, the well of the life of vision, lo! it is between Kadesh and Bered.
So Hagar bare to Abram a son,—and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bare, Ishmael.
Now, Abram, was eighty—six years old,—when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram.