And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, I am Jehovah your God.
You shall not do according to the doings of the land of Egypt in which you lived; and you shall not do according to the doings of the land of Canaan to which I am bringing you; nor shall you walk in their statutes.
You shall do My judgments and you shall keep My statutes, to walk in them; I am Jehovah your God,
and you shall keep My statutes and My judgments, which if a man do, he shall live by them. I am Jehovah.
None of you shall draw near to any relative of his flesh to uncover their nakedness; I am Jehovah.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father or the nakedness of your mother; she is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife; it is the nakedness of your father.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, born at home, or born away; you shall not uncover their nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter, or your daughter's daughter; you shall not uncover their nakedness, for theirs is your own nakedness.
The nakedness of the daughter of your father's wife, begotten by your father, she is your sister; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of a sister of your father; she is a relative of your father.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister; for she is your mother's relative.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother; you shall not draw near to his wife; she is your aunt.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; it is your brother's nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter; you shall not undertake to uncover her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter; they are her relatives; it is wickedness.
And you shall not take a wife with her sister, to vex her , to uncover her nakedness, beside the other in her lifetime.
And you shall not draw near to uncover the nakedness of a woman in her menstrual impurity.
And you shall not give your semen to the your neighbor's wife by lying with her , for uncleanness with her.
And you shall not give your seed to pass them through to Molech, nor shall you pollute the name of your God; I am Jehovah.
And you shall not lie with a male as one lies with a woman; it is a perversion.
And you shall not give your semen with any animal, for uncleanness with it. And a woman shall not stand before an animal to lie down with it; it is a shameful mixing.
Do not defile yourself with all these, for with all these the nations have been defiled, which I am casting out before you;
and the land is defiled, and I will visit its iniquity on it; and the land is vomiting out its inhabitants;
and you, you shall keep My statutes and My judgments, and shall not do any of all these disgusting acts; neither the native nor the alien who is staying in your midst.
For the men of the land who are before you have done all these disgusting things, and the land is defiled.
Do not do these lest the land vomit you out for your defiling it, as it has vomited out the nation that was before you.
For anyone who does any of these disgusting things, even the persons who are doing them , shall be cut off from the midst of their people.
And you shall keep My charge, so as not to do any of the disgusting customs which were committed before you; and you shall not defile yourselves with them; I am Jehovah your God.