The words of Lemuel the king,—the strain which was taught him by his mother:—
What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? aye what, the son of my vows?
Do not give, to women, thy strength, nor thy ways, to them who ruin kings.
It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, nor, for dignitaries, to desire strong drink,
Lest he drink, and forget that which is decreed, and alter the plea of any who are sorely oppressed.
Give strong drink, to him that is perishing, and wine, to such as are embittered in soul:
Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and, his wearying toil, let him remember no more.
Open thy mouth for the dumb, for the cause of all the children of the departed.
Open thy mouth—judge righteously,—and administer justice for the poor and the needy.
A virtuous woman, who can find? for, far beyond corals, is her worth.
The heart of her husband, trusteth her, and, gain, he shall not lack:
She doeth him good and not evil, all the days of her life:
She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands:
She is like the ships of the merchant, from afar, she bringeth in her food;
And she riseth, while yet it is night, and giveth food to her household, and a task to her maidens:
She considereth a field, and procureth it, Out of the fruit of her hands, she planteth a vineyard:
She girdeth, with strength her loins, and putteth vigour into her arms:
She tasteth, whether, good, be her merchandise, and her lamp, goeth not out by night:
Her hands, she putteth forth to the distaff, and, her palms, lay hold of the spindle:
Her palm, she spreadeth out to the oppressed, and, her hands, she extendeth to the needy:
She feareth not, for her household, because of the snow, for, all her household, are clothed with crimson:
Coverlets, she maketh for herself, Of white linen and of purple, is her clothing:
Known in the gates, is her husband, when he sitteth, with the elders of the land:
Fine linen wraps, she maketh and selleth, and, girdles, doth she deliver to the trader:
Strength and dignity, are her clothing, and she laugheth at the time to come:
Her mouth, she openeth with wisdom, and, the instruction of kindness, is on her tongue:
She looketh well to the goings of her household, and, the bread of idleness, will she not eat.
Her children rise up, and call her happy! her husband, and he praiseth her:—
Many daughters, have done virtuously, but, thou, excellest them all!
Deceitful is loveliness and vain is beauty, The woman that revereth Yahweh, she, shall be praised:
Give her of the fruit of her own hands, and let her own works, praise her in the gates.