And He also said to His disciples, A certain man was rich; and he had a steward, and this one was accused to him as wasting his goods.
And calling him, he said to him, What is this I hear about you? Give the account of your stewardship, for you can no longer be steward.
And the steward said within himself, What shall I do, for my Lord is taking away the stewardship from me? I am not able to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
I know what I will do, that when I am removed from the stewardship, they will receive me into their houses.
And calling to him each one of the debtors of his lord, he said to the first, How much do you owe my lord?
And he said, A hundred baths of oil. And he said to him, Take your statements and sitting quickly write fifty.
Then he said to another, And you, how much do you owe? And he said, a hundred cors of wheat. And he said to him, Take your statement and write eighty.
And the lord praised the unrighteous steward, because he acted prudently. For the sons of this age are more prudent than the sons of light themselves are in their generation.
And I say to you, Make to yourselves friends by the unrighteous mammon, that when it fails they may take you into the eternal dwellings.
He faithful in the least is also faithful in much. And he unrighteous in the least is also unrighteous in much.
Then if you were not faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust the true to you?
And if you were not faithful in that of another, who will give to you that which is yours?
No servant is able to serve two lords; for either he will hate the one, and he will love the other; or he will cling to one, and he will despise the other. You are unable to serve God and mammon.
And being lovers of money, the Pharisees also heard all these things; and they derided Him.
And He said to them, You are those justifying yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts; for the thing highly prized among men is a hateful thing before God.
The Law and the Prophets were until John; from then the kingdom of God is being preached, and everyone is pressing into it.
But it is easier for the heaven and the earth to pass away than one tittle of the law to fail.
Everyone putting away his wife, and marrying another, commits adultery. And everyone marrying her who has been put away from a husband commits adultery.
And there was a certain rich man; and he was accustomed to don a purple robe and fine linen, making merry in luxury day by day.
And there was a certain poor one named Lazarus who had been laid at his porch, being plagued by sores,
and longing to be filled from the crumbs that were falling from the table of the rich one. But coming, even the dogs licked his sores.
And it happened, the poor one died and was carried away by the angels into the bosom of Abraham. And the rich one also died and was buried.
And being in torments in Hell, lifting up his eyes, he sees Abraham afar off and Lazarus in his bosoms.
And calling he said, Father Abraham, have pity on me and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am suffering in this flame.
But Abraham said, Child, remember that you fully received your good things in your lifetime, and Lazarus likewise the bad things. But now he is comforted, and you are suffering.
And besides all these things, a great chasm has been fixed between us and you, so that those desiring to pass from here to you are not able, nor can they pass from there to us.
And he said, Then I beg you, father, that you send him to my father's house;
(for I have five brothers, so that he may witness to them, that they not also come to this place of torment).
Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the Prophets, let them hear them.
But he said, No, father Abraham, but if one should go from the dead to them, they will repent.
And he said to him, If they will not hear Moses and the Prophets, they will not be persuaded even if one from the dead should rise.