And there were present, at that time, some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
And Jesus answered and said to them: Do you think that those Galileans were greater sinners than all other Galileans, because they suffered such things?
I tell you, No; but unless you repent, you shall all likewise perish.
Or, those eighteen, on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them; do you think that they were greater debtors than all other men that were living in Jerusalem?
I tell you, No; but unless you repent, you shall all likewise perish.
And he spoke this parable: A certain man had a fig-tree that was planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit on it, and found none.
Then he said to his vine-dresser, Behold, for three years I have come and sought fruit on this fig-tree, and I have found none; cut it down; why does it occupy the ground unprofitably?
But he answered and said to him, Sir, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and throw in manure;
and it may bear fruit; but if not, afterward you shall cut it down.
And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
And, behold, there was a woman who had had a spirit of infirmity for eighteen years; and she was bowed together, and was not able to raise herself up at all.
And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said to her: Woman, you are released from your infirmity.
And he laid his hands on her; and she immediately stood erect, and glorified God.
But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had performed a cure on the sabbath-day, answered and said to the multitude: There are six days in which work ought to be done; on these, therefore, come and be cured, and not on the sabbath-day. Then the Lord answered him and said:
Hypocrites, does not each one of you, on the sabbath, loose his ox or his ass from the stable, and lead him away, and give him water?
And ought not this woman, who is a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound, lo, these eighteen years, to be loosed from this bond on the sabbath-day?
And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed; and all the multitude rejoiced on account of all the glorious things that were done by him.
Then he said: To what is the kingdom of God like; and to what shall I liken it?
It is like a grain of mustard, which a man took, and sowed in his garden; and it grew, and became a great tree; and the birds of the air roosted in its branches.
And again he said: To what shall I liken the kingdom of God?
It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till the whole was leavened.
And he went through every city and village, teaching, and journeying to Jerusalem.
And a certain man said to him: Lord, are there few that are saved? And he said to them:
Strive to enter in through the strait gate; for many, I say to you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.
When once the master of the house has risen, and closed the door, and you begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open for us, and he shall answer and say to you, I know you not, whence you are;
then, you will begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets.
And he shall say, I tell you, I know you not, whence you are; depart from me, all you workers of iniquity.
There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but your selves cast out.
And they shall come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and shall recline at table in the kingdom of God.
And behold, there are last that shall be first, and there arc first that shall be last.
On the same day, certain Pharisees came and said to him: Depart, and get away from this place; for Herod intends to kill you.
And he said to them: Go and toll that fox, Behold, I cast out demons, and perform cures to-day and to-morrow, and the third day I finish the work.
But I must continue my journey to-day and to-morrow and the day following; for it is not possible that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that killest the prophets and stonest them that are sent to thee: how often have I desired to gather thy children together, as a bird gathers her young under her wings, and you refused.
Behold, your house is deserted; and I say to you, You shall not see me till the time come when you shall say, Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord.