NOW when he descended from the mount, great multitudes followed him.
And lo! a leper came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And stretching out his hand, Jesus touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And instantly the leprosy was cleansed.
And Jesus said to him, See thou tell no man; but go, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift which Moses commanded for a testimony unto them.
Then as Jesus was entering into Capernaum, there met him a centurion, intreating him,
and saying, My servant is lying in the house paralytic, terribly tormented with pain.
And Jesus said unto him, I will come and heal him.
And the centurion said, I am not a fit person, that thou shouldest come under my roof: but only speak a word, and my servant be cured.
For I also am a man under authority, having under my command soldiers and I say to this soldier, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
And Jesus hearing him, marvelled, and said to those who were following, Verily I say unto you, not even in Israel have I found so great faith.
And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and from the west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven.
But the children of the kingdom shall be cast into the outer darkness: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
And Jesus said to the centurion, Go; and as thou hast believed, be it to thee. And his servant was cured at that very hour.
And when Jesus was come into the house of Peter, he saw his mother-in-law laid on a bed, and in a fever.
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her: and she arose, and waited upon them.
And when evening was come, they brought him many possessed by devils: and he cast out the spirits by a word, and all who had illnesses he cured:
that it might be fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet, “Himself he took our infirmities, and bore our diseases.”
Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave orders to pass to the other side.
And a certain scribe came, and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
And Jesus said unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where he can lay his head.
And another of his disciples said unto him, Permit me first to go and bury my father.
And Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their own dead.
And going on board a vessel, his disciples followed him.
And, behold, there was a great tempest in the sea, so that the vessel was hid by the waves; but he was asleep.
And his disciples coming, awoke him, saying, Lord, save us: we are perishing!
And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then arising, he issued his mandate to the winds, and to the sea; and there was a great calm.
And the men marvelled, saying, What a wondrous man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him!
And when he came to the other side, into the region of the Girgasenes, there met him two demoniacs, coming from the sepulchres; exceeding fierce, so that no person was able to pass by that road.
And lo! they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God? art thou come hither before the time to torment us?
And at a considerable distance, there was a great herd of swine feeding.
Then the devils besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, permit us to go into the herd of swine.
And he said to them, Go. Then they going forth out of him, entered into the herd of swine: and lo! the whole herd of the swine rushed down a precipice into the sea, and perished in the waters.
But they who fed them fled, and going away into the city, reported all things, and what had happened to the demoniacs.
And, behold, all the city came out to meet him: and when they saw him, they besought him to depart from their territories.