The preparations of the heart are in man: but the answere of the tongue is of the Lord.
All the wayes of a man are cleane in his owne eyes: but the Lord pondereth the spirits.
Commit thy workes vnto the Lord, and thy thoughts shalbe directed.
The Lord hath made all things for his owne sake: yea, euen the wicked for the day of euill.
All that are proude in heart, are an abomination to the Lord: though hand ioyne in hand, he shall not be vnpunished.
By mercy and trueth iniquitie shalbe forgiuen, and by the feare of the Lord they depart from euill.
When the wayes of a man please the Lord, he will make also his enemies at peace with him.
Better is a litle with righteousnesse, then great reuenues without equitie.
The heart of man purposeth his way: but the Lord doeth direct his steppes.
A diuine sentence shalbe in the lips of the King: his mouth shall not transgresse in iudgement.
A true weight and balance are of the Lord: all the weightes of the bagge are his worke.
It is an abomination to Kings to commit wickednes: for the throne is stablished by iustice.
Righteous lips are the delite of Kings, and the King loueth him that speaketh right things.
The wrath of a King is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacifie it.
In the light of the Kings coutenance is life: and his fauour is as a cloude of the latter raine.
Howe much better is it to get wisedome then golde? and to get vnderstanding, is more to be desired then siluer.
The pathe of the righteous is to decline from euil, and hee keepeth his soule, that keepeth his way.
Pride goeth before destruction, and an high minde before the fall.
Better it is to be of humble minde with the lowly, then to deuide the spoyles with the proude.
He that is wise in his busines, shall finde good: and he that trusteth in the Lord, he is blessed.
The wise in heart shall bee called prudent: and the sweetenesse of the lippes shall increase doctrine.
Vnderstading is welspring of life vnto them that haue it: and the instruction of fooles is folly.
The heart of the wise guideth his mouth wisely, and addeth doctrine to his lippes.
Faire wordes are as an hony combe, sweetenesse to the soule, and health to the bones.
There is a way that seemeth right vnto man: but the issue thereof are the wayes of death.
The person that traueileth, traueileth for himselfe: for his mouth craueth it of him.
A wicked man diggeth vp euill, and in his lippes is like burning fire.
A frowarde person soweth strife: and a tale teller maketh diuision among princes.
A wicked man deceiueth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good.
He shutteth his eyes to deuise wickednes: he moueth his lippes, and bringeth euil to passe.
Age is a crowne of glory, when it is founde in the way of righteousnes.
He that is slowe vnto anger, is better then the mightie man: and hee that ruleth his owne minde, is better then he that winneth a citie.
The lot is cast into the lap: but the whole disposition thereof is of the Lord.