My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? why are you so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?
O my God, I cry in the day time, but you hear not; and in the night season, and am not silent.
But you are holy, O you that inhabit the praises of Israel.
Our fathers trusted in you: they trusted, and you did deliver them.
They cried unto you, and were delivered: they trusted in you, and were not confounded.
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.
All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,
He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.
But you are he that took me out of the womb: you did make me hope when I was upon my mother's breasts.
I was cast upon you from the womb: you are my God from my mother's belly.
Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.
Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaves to my jaws; and you have brought me into the dust of death.
For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.
I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.
They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.
But be not you far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste you to help me.
Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.
Save me from the lion's mouth: for you have heard me from the horns of the unicorns.
I will declare your name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise you.
All of you that fear the LORD, praise him; all you the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all you the seed of Israel.
For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither has he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.
My praise shall be of you in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.
All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD: and all the families of the nations shall worship before you.
For the kingdom is the LORD's: and he is the governor among the nations.
All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.
A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.
They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he has done this.