Therefore, omitting the elementary Christian teaching, let us go on to the perfection of Christian instruction, not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
of the teaching with respect to immersions, and of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal condemnation.
And this we will do, if God permit.
For it is impossible to renew again to repentance those who have once been enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
and have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the coming age,
if they fall away; since they again crucify in themselves the Son of God, and put him to an open shame.
For the land which drinks up the rain that comes often upon it, and produces herbs suitable for those for whom it is cultivated, receives blessing from God.
But that which produces thorns and thistles is rejected, and is near the curse, the end of which is to be burned.
But, beloved, we are confident of better things concerning you, and of things that tend to salvation, though we thus speak.
For God is not unjust, that he should forget your work, and the love which you have shown for his name by having ministered to the saints, and by continuing to minister.
But we desire every one of you to show the same diligence, in order to have your hope fully assured to the end:
that you may not become slothful, but imitators of those who, through faith and patience, inherit the promises.
For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swore by himself,
saying: Most surely will I abundantly bless you, and abundantly multiply you.
And so, when he had waited patiently, he received the promises.
For, verily, men swear by the greater, and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all contradiction.
Wherefore, God, being more abundantly willing to show to the heirs of his promise the immutability of his purpose, interposed an oath,
that by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have strong consolation, who have fled to lay hold on the hope set before us;
which, hope we have as an anchor for the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which enters in beyond the vail,
whither a forerunner for us has gone, even Jesus, who is made a high priest forever after the order of Melchisedec.