For, behold, in those days and in that time, when I bring again the exiles of Judah and Jerusalem,
I will also gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat. And I will enter into judgment with them there, for My people and My inheritance, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations; and they shared out My land.
And they have cast lots for My people. And they have given a boy for a prostitute and sold a girl for wine, and they drank.
And also, what are you to Me, Tyre and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you restoring repayment to Me? And if you are repaying Me, I will turn your reward on your own head, swiftly, speedily,
in that you have taken My silver and My gold and have carried My good treasures to your temples.
You have also sold the sons of Judah and the sons of Jerusalem to the sons of the Greeks, that you might remove them far from their border.
Behold, I am arousing them from the place where you have sold them, and will return your reward on your own head.
And I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the sons of Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a nation far off. For Jehovah has spoken it.
Proclaim this among the nations: Sanctify a war; awaken the mighty men; let all the men of war draw near; let them come up.
Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, I am strong.
Gather yourselves and come, all you nations; and gather yourselves together all around. O Jehovah, bring down Your mighty ones.
Let the nations be awakened and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat. For there I will sit to judge all the nations all around.
Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Come, go down, for the press is full, the vats overflow, for their wickedness is great.
Multitudes, multitudes in valley of decision! For the day of Jehovah is near in the valley of decision.
The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall gather in their light.
And Jehovah roars from Zion, and He gives His voice from Jerusalem. And the heavens and the earth quake. But Jehovah is a refuge for His people and a fortress to the sons of Israel.
And you shall know that I am Jehovah your God dwelling in Zion, My holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be a holy thing, and aliens shall no more pass through her.
And it shall be in that day, the mountains shall drop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the streams of Judah shall flow with waters. And a fountain shall come forth from the house of Jehovah, and it shall water the valley of Shittim.
Egypt shall be a ruin, and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness, from violence done to the sons of Judah, whose innocent blood they poured out in their land.
But Judah will dwell forever, and Jerusalem to generation and generation.
And I will cleanse their blood which I did not cleanse. And Jehovah is dwelling in Zion.