And Rehoboam went to Shechem. For all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
And it happened when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was in Egypt where he had fled from the presence of Solomon the king, heard it, Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.
And they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying,
Your father made our yoke heavy. And now lighten the heavy service of your father, and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you.
And he said to them, Come again to me after three days. And the people departed.
And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men who had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What advice do you give me to return answer to this people?
And they spoke to him saying, If you are kind to this people and please them, and speak good words to them, they will be your servants forever.
But he departed from the advice which the old men gave him and listened to the young men who were brought up with him, who stood before him.
And he said to them, What advice do you give that we may return answer to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Lighten the yoke which your father put on us?
And the young men who were brought up with him spoke to him saying, In this way shall you answer the people who spoke to you, saying, Your father made our yoke heavy, but you lighten our yoke, this you shall say to them, My little  finger shall be thicker than my father's loins.
And now my father put a heavy yoke on you, and I will surely add to your yoke. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
And Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king commanded, saying, Come again to me on the third day.
And the king answered them roughly. And king Rehoboam departed from the advice of the old men,
and answered them after the advice of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.
And the king did not listen to the people, for the revolution was from God so that the LORD might perform His word which He spoke by the hand of Ahijah of Shiloh to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
And all Israel saw that the king would not listen to them, and the people answered the king saying, What part do we have in David? And we have no inheritance in the son of Jesse! Every man to your tents, O Israel! Now, David, see to your own house. And all Israel went to their tents.
As for the sons of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
And king Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was over the forced labor. And the sons of Israel stoned him with stones so that he died. But king Rehoboam was warned to get up into his chariot to flee to Jerusalem.
And Israel rebelled against the house of David until this day.