The burden of the word of Jehovah against the land of Hadrach, and its resting place, Damascus, (when the eye of man, and all the tribes of Israel shall be toward Jehovah),
and Hamath also borders on it; Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise.
And Tyre shall build a fortress for herself, and shall pile up silver like the dust, and gold like the mud of the streets.
Behold! The Lord will expel her, and He will strike her wealth in the sea, and she shall be consumed with fire.
Ashkelon shall see and fear; Gaza also shall writhe in great pain; and Ekron shall be ashamed for her hope. And the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited.
And a bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.
And I will take away his bloods out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth. But the remnant, even he, shall be for our God. And he shall be as a governor in Judah, and Ekron, like a Jebusite.
And I will camp around My house because of an army, because of him who passed by, and because of him who returns. And no tyrant shall pass through them any more. For now I have seen with My eyes.
Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion! Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your King comes to you! He is righteous and victorious, lowly, and riding on an ass, even on a colt, the son of an ass.
And I Will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem. And the battle bow shall be cut off, and He shall speak peace to the nations. And His dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth.
Also you, by the blood of your covenant I have freed your prisoners from the pit; no water is in it.
Turn to the stronghold, O prisoners of hope! Even today I declare I will return double to you.
For I have bent Judah for Me as a bow; I filled it with Ephraim. And I will stir up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece, and make you as the sword of a mighty man.
Then Jehovah will be seen over them, and His arrow shall go out as lightning; and the Lord Jehovah shall blow the ram's horn and shall go forth with the windstorms of the south.
Jehovah of hosts shall defend them. And they shall devour and trample on the slingstones. And they shall drink and be boisterous, as with wine. And they shall be full like a bowl, like the corners of the altar.
And Jehovah their God shall save them in that day as the flock of His people; for they are as stones of a crown, lifted up as a barrier over His land.
For how great is its goodness, and how great its beauty! Grain shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the virgins.