God created man from the earth, and he made him according to his own image.
And he returned him again to it, and he clothed him with virtue according to himself.
He gave him the number and time of his days, and he gave him authority over all the things that are upon the earth.
He placed the fear of him over all flesh, and he had dominion over wild beasts and flying things.
He created from him a helper, similar to himself. He gave them counsel, and language, and sight, and hearing, and a heart, in order to think. And he filled them with the discipline of understanding.
He created within them the knowledge of the spirit. He filled their heart with understanding, and he showed them both good and evil.
He set his eye upon their hearts, to reveal to them the greatness of his works,
so that they might highly praise the name of sanctification, and give glory to his wonders, so that they might declare the greatness of his works.
In addition, he gave them discipline and the law of life, as their inheritance.
He established an eternal covenant with them, and he revealed to them his justice and judgments.
And their eye saw the greatness of his honor, and their ears heard the honor of his voice, and he said to them: “Beware of all iniquity.”
And he commanded each one concerning his neighbor.
Their ways are always in his sight; they are not hidden from his eyes.
Over each and every people, he has appointed a ruler.
And Israel was made to be the manifest portion of God.
And in the sight of God, all their works are like the sun. And his eyes, without ceasing, inspect their ways.
The covenants are not hidden by their iniquity, and all their iniquities are in the sight of God.
The almsgiving of a man is like a seal upon him, which will guard the grace of a man like the pupil of an eye.
And afterward, it will rise up and repay them their reward, each one upon his head, and it will return to the hidden places of the earth.
Now, to the repentant, he has given the way of justice, and he has strengthened those lacking in patience, and he has fastened them to a destiny of truth.
Convert to the Lord, and relinquish your sins.
Make supplication before the face of the Lord, and diminish your offenses.
Return to the Lord, and turn away from your injustice, and have immense hatred for abomination.
And acknowledge the justices and judgments of God, and stand firm in the circumstances set before you and in prayer to the most high God.
Go to the side of the holy generation, to those who live in order to give praise to God.
You should not linger in the error of the impious; confess before death. Confession perishes from the dead as if it were nothing.
Confess while living; you should give thanks while you are still alive and healthy. And you should praise God and glory in his compassion.
How great is the mercy of the Lord, and his forgiveness, for those who convert to him!
For not all things can be in men, because the son of man is not immortal, and because they are pleased by the emptiness of malice.
What is brighter than the sun? Yet this will fail. Or what is more wicked than that which flesh and blood has invented? And this will be reproved.
He beholds the power of the heights of heaven. And all men are earth and ashes.