And when Balaam saw that it was good in the eyes of Yahweh to bless Israel, he went not as at other times to invoke enchantments,—but set towards the desert, his face.
So Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel, dwelling, according to his tribes,—then came upon him the Spirit of God;
and he took up his parable, and said,—The oracle of Balaam, son of Beor, Yea the oracle of the man, of opened eye;
The oracle of one hearing sayings of GOD, Who the sight of the Almighty, receiveth in vision, Who falleth down but hath unveiled eyes:—
How pleasing are thy tents, O Jacob,—Thy habitations, O Israel:
Like ravines extended, Like gardens by a river,—Like aloe-trees Yahweh hath planted, Like cedars by waters:
He poureth forth water from his buckets, And, his seed, is among many waters,—And taller than Agag is his King, And exalted is his kingdom.
GOD having brought him forth out of Egypt, The very horns of the buffalo, are his,—He eateth up nations that assail him And the bones of them, he breaketh And the loins of him, he crusheth:
He hath knelt—hath lain down, Like a strong lion, yea like a lioness, Who shall rouse him up? Such as bless thee are each one blessed, But, such, as curse thee, are each one cursed.
Then kindled the anger of Balak against Balaam, and he smote together his hands,—and Balak said unto Balaam—To revile my foes, I called thee, And lo! thou hast kept on blessing, these three times.
Now, therefore, flee thou unto thy place,—I said, I will, highly honour, thee; but lo! Yahweh hath kept thee back from honour.
And Balaam said unto Balak,—Was it not so that even unto thy messengers whom thou didst send unto me, I spake saying-
Though Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, yet could I not go beyond the bidding of Yahweh, to, do good or ill, out of my own heart,—what Yahweh shall speak, that, must I speak?
Now, therefore, behold me! going to my own people,—Come now! let me advise thee, what this people shall do unto thy people in the after-part of the days.
So he took up his parable and said,—The oracle of Balaam, son of Beor, Yea the oracle of the man, of opened eye;
The oracle of one hearing sayings of GOD, And knowing the knowledge of the Most High,—Who the sight of the Almighty, receiveth in vision, Who falleth down but hath unveiled eyes:—
I see One, who is not now, I observe One, who is not nigh,—There hath marched forth a Star out of Jacob. And arisen a Sceptre out of Israel, That hath dishonoured the beard of Moab, Yea the crown of the head of all the tumultuous;
So Edom hath become a possession, Yea a possession is Seir to his foes,—But, Israel, is doing valiantly;
Yea One wieldeth dominion out of Jacob,—Who hath destroyed the remnant out of the fortress.
And, when he saw Amalek, he took up, his parable, and said—The beginning of nations,—Amalek, But his latter end is even to perish.
And when he saw the Kenite, he took up his parable, and said,—Enduring thy dwelling-place, Set thou then in the crag, thy nest;
Yet shall it be for destruction, O Kain,—How long shall Assyria hold thee captive?
And he took up his parable, and said,—Alas who shall survive its fulfillment by GOD;
When, ships, [come] from the coast of the isles, And humble Assyria, and humble the Hebrew,—And he too, is even to perish?
Then Balaam arose, and went and returned unto his place,—and, Balak also, went his way.