The oracle of the word of Yahweh, unto Israel,—by the hand of Malachi.
I have loved you, saith Yahweh, and yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Is not Esau, brother, to Jacob? enquireth Yahweh, Yet have I loved Jacob,
And, Esau, have I hated,— and made his mountains a desolation, and his inheritance [a dwelling] for the jackals of the wilderness.
Whereas Edom, may say, We are laid waste, but we will again build the desolate places, Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, They, may build, but, I, will pull down,— and men shall call them, The Boundary of Lawlessness, and, The people with whom Yahweh hath indignation unto times age-abiding;
And, your own eyes, shall see,—and, ye yourselves, shall say, Yahweh, be magnified, beyond the boundary of Israel.
A son, will honour a father, and, a servant, his lord,— If then, a father, I am, where is mine honour? And, if, a lord, I am, where is my reverence? saith Yahweh of hosts— to you, ye priests, who despise my Name, and yet say, Wherein have we despised thy Name?
In bringing near upon mine altar, polluted food, while yet ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? Because ye say, As for the table of Yahweh, a thing to be despised, it is;
And when ye bring near the blind as a sacrifice, [saying] —No harm! or when ye bring near the lame or the sick [saying] —No harm! Offer it, I pray you, unto thy pasha, Will he accept thee? or lift up thy countenance? saith Yahweh of hosts.
Now, therefore, pacify, I pray you, the face of GOD, that he may grant us favour,—at your hands, hath this come to pass, Will he lift up the countenances, of any of you? saith Yahweh of hosts.
Who is there, even among you, that will shut the doors, so as not to set light to mine altar, for nothing? I can take no pleasure in you, saith Yahweh of hosts, and, your present, can I not accept at your hand.
For, from the rising of the sun, even unto the going in thereof, great is my Name among the nations, and, in every place, incense, is offered to my Name, and a pure present,—for great is my Name among the nations, saith Yahweh of hosts.
But ye are profaning me,— in that ye say, As for the table of the Lord, polluted it is, and, as for his produce, contemptible is his food.
And ye have said, Lo! what a weariness! And ye have snuffed at Me, saith Yahweh of hosts, and have brought in the torn and the lame and the sick, thus have ye brought the present,— Could I accept it at your hand? saith Yahweh.
But accursed is he that defraudeth, who, when there is in his flock a male, yet voweth and sacrificeth a corrupt thing to the Lord, for, a great king, am I, saith Yahweh of hosts, and, my Name, is revered among the nations.