And it came to pass, after this, that, Absolom, son of David, having a beautiful sister, whose name, was Tamar, Amnon son of David loved her.
And it so troubled Amnon, that he made himself ill on account of Tamar his sister, for, a virgin, was she, and it was monstrous in Amnon’s own eyes, to do, anything, unto her.
But, Amnon, had a friend, whose name, was Jonadab, son of Shimeah, David’s brother,—and, Jonadab, was a very cunning man.
So he said to him,—Why art thou looking so wretched—a king’s son too—morning by morning? Wilt thou not tell me? And Amnon said to him, With Tamar, my brother Absolom’s sister, am I in love.
And Jonadab said unto him: Take to thy bed, and feign thyself ill,—and, when thy father cometh in to see thee, then shalt thou say unto him—I pray thee, let Tamar my sister come, that she may give me food, and let her prepare, before mine eyes, some delicacy, to the end that I may see [it made], and so eat at her hand.
So Amnon took to his bed, and feigned himself ill,—and, when the king came in to see him, Amnon said unto the king—I pray thee, let Tamar my sister come, and make ready before mine eyes a couple of cakes, that I may eat at her hand.
So David sent unto Tamar, in the house—saying,—Come, I pray thee, to the house of Amnon thy brother, and prepare him enticing food.
And Tamar went to the house of Amnon her brother, he having taken to his bed,—and took dough and kneaded it, and folded it before his eyes, and baked the cakes.
Then took she the pan and put them out before him, but he refused to eat. And Amnon said—Have forth every one from me. And they went out every one from him.
Then said Amnon unto Tamar—Bring the food into the chamber, that I may eat out of thine own hand. So Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them in to Amnon her brother, in the chamber.
And, when she brought them unto him to eat, he took hold of her, and said to her, Come lie with me, my sister!
But she said to him—Nay! my brother, do not force me, for it should not be done so in Israel,—do not commit this vileness.
And, I,—whither could I take my reproach? Thou, too, wouldest be as one of the vile fellows, in Israel. Now, therefore, speak, I pray thee, unto the king, for he would not withhold me from thee.
But he would not hearken unto her voice,—and, being stronger than she, forced her, and lay with her.
Then did Amnon hate her with a very great hatred, for, greater, was the hatred wherewith he hated her, than the love wherewith he had loved her,—so Amnon said to her—Rise—begone!
But she said to him—No occasion for this greater wrong, after what thou hast done with me, to put me away! Nevertheless he would not hearken unto her;
but called his young man who waited on him, and said—I pray you, put forth this woman from me, outside,—and bolt the door after her.
Now she had upon her a long tunic, for, so, used king’s daughters to apparel themselves, when they were virgins, in robes. And his attendant took her forth, outside, and bolted the door, after her.
And Tamar put ashes upon her head, and, the long tunic that was upon her, she rent,—and put her hand upon her head, and went her way, crying out as she went.
And Absolom her brother said unto her—Hath, Amnon thy brother, been with thee? Now, therefore, my sister, hold thy peace—thy brother, he is, do not lay to thy heart, this thing. But Tamar remained, and was desolate in the house of Absolom her brother.
And, King David, heard all these things,—and it angered him greatly.
And Absolom spake not with Amnon, either bad or good,—though Absolom hated Amnon, because he had forced Tamar his sister.
And it came to pass, after two years of days, that Absolom had, sheepshearers in Baal-hazor, which is beside Ephron,—and Absolom invited all the king’s sons.
Absolom came also unto the king, and said, See, I pray thee, thy servant hath, sheepshearers,—I pray thee, let the king and his servants go with thy servant.
And the king said unto Absolom—Nay! my son, do not, I pray thee, let us all go, lest we be burdensome upon thee. And, though he urged him, he would not go, but blessed him.
Then said Absolom, If not, then, I pray thee, let Amnon my brother go with us. And the king said unto him, Wherefore should he go with thee?
And Absolom urged him,—so he let Amnon and all the king’s sons go with him.
Now Absolom had commanded his young men, saying—Mark, I pray you, when the heart of Amnon is merry with wine, and I say unto you—Smite ye Amnon, then shall ye put him to death, do not fear,—have not, I myself, commanded you? Be bold, and show yourselves to be sons of valour.
So Absolom’s young men did to Amnon as Absolom had commanded. Then arose all the king’s sons, and rode away—each man on his mule, and fled.
And it came to pass, while, they, were yet on the road, that, the report, reached David, saying,—Absolom hath smitten all the king’s sons, and there is not left of them, one.
And the king arose, and rent his garments, and lay on the ground,—and all his servants who stood by rent their garments.
Then responded Jonadab son of Shimeah David’s brother, and said—Let not my lord say that they have put, all the young men—the king’s sons, to death; for, Amnon alone, is dead; for, by the bidding of Absolom, was it appointed, from the day that he forced Tamar his sister.
Now, therefore, let not my lord the king lay to his heart such a thing—to say, All the king’s sons, are dead,—but, Amnon alone, is dead.
Now Absolom had fled. And the young man that was watching lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo! much people, coming on the road behind him, on the mountain-side.
So Jonadab said unto the king, Lo! the king’s sons, are come,—according to the word of thy servant, so hath it come to pass.
And so it was, as he made an end of speaking, that lo! the king’s sons, came, and lifted up their voice and wept,—the king also, and all his servants, wept with an exceeding great weeping.
But, Absolom, had fled, and had taken his journey unto Talmai son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. And David the king mourned for his son continually,
But, Absolom, had fled, and had taken his journey to Geshur,—and it came to pass that he was there three years.
And the spirit of the king pined to go forth unto Absolom,—for he had consoled himself over Amnon, in that he was dead.