And these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments, which the LORD our God commanded to teach you so that you might do them in the land where you go, to possess it,
that you might fear the LORD your God, to keep all His statutes and His commandments which I command you, you, and your son, and your son's son, all the days of your life, and so that your days may be prolonged.
Then hear, O, Israel, and be careful to do it, so that it may be well with you, and that you may greatly multiply, as the LORD God of our fathers has promised you, in the land that flows with milk and honey.
Hear, O, Israel. The LORD our God is one LORD.
And you shall love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might.
And these words which I command you this day shall be in your heart.
And you shall carefully teach them to your sons, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And you shall bind them for a sign upon your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
And you shall write them upon the posts of your house, and on your gates.
And it shall be when the LORD your God has brought you into the land which He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you great and good cities which you did not build,
and houses full of every good thing which you did not fill, and wells which are dug, but which you did not dig, vineyards and olive trees which you did not plant, and you shall eat and be full,
you shall be on guard lest you forget the LORD who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of slaves.
You shall fear the LORD your God and serve Him, and shall swear by His name.
You shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the people all around you,
for the LORD your God is a jealous God among you, lest the anger of the LORD your God be kindled against you and destroy you from off the face of the earth.
You shall not tempt the LORD your God as you tempted in Massah.
You shall carefully keep the commandments of the LORD your God, and His testimonies, and His statutes which He has commanded you.
And you shall do the right and good in the sight of the LORD, so that it may be well with you, and so that you may go in and possess the good land which the LORD swore to your fathers,
to cast out all your enemies from before you, as the LORD has spoken.
When your son asks you in time to come, saying, What are the testimonies, and the statutes and the judgments which the LORD our God has commanded you?
Then you shall say to your son, We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt, and the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
And the LORD gave signs and wonders, great and evil signs, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh and upon all his household, before our eyes.
And He brought us out from there so that He might bring us in to give us the land which He swore to our fathers.
And the LORD commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the LORD our God, for our good always, so that He might preserve us alive, as it is today.
And if we are careful to do all this commandment before the LORD our God, as He has commanded us, it shall be our righteousness.