Give ear to my prayer, O God, and hide not thyself from my supplication.
Attend to me, and answer me. I am restless in my complaint, and moan,
because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they cast iniquity upon me, and in anger they persecute me.
My heart is greatly pained within me, and the terrors of death have fallen upon me.
Fearfulness and trembling have come upon me, and horror has overwhelmed me.
And I said, O that I had wings like a dove! Then I would fly away, and be at rest.
Lo, then I would wander far off. I would lodge in the wilderness. Selah.
I would hasten myself to a shelter from the stormy wind and tempest.
Destroy, O Lord, divide their tongue, for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
Day and night they go about it, upon the walls of it. Iniquity and mischief also are in the midst of it.
Wickedness is in the midst of it. Oppression and deceit depart not from its streets.
For it was not an enemy who reproached me. Then I could have borne it. Neither was it he who hated me that magnified himself against me. Then I would have hid myself from him.
But it was thou, a man my equal, my companion, and my familiar friend.
We took sweet counsel together. We walked in the house of God with the throng.
Let death come suddenly upon them. Let them go down alive into Sheol. For wickedness is in their dwelling, in the midst of them.
As for me, I will call upon God, and Jehovah will save me.
Evening, and morning, and at noonday, I will complain and moan. And he will hear my voice.
He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, for there were many by me.
God will hear, and respond to them, (even he who abides of old), Selah, men who have no changes, and who fear not God.
He has put forth his hands against such as were at peace with him. He has profaned his covenant.
His mouth was smooth as butter, but his heart was war. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords.
(Cast thy burden upon Jehovah, and he will sustain thee. He will never allow the righteous man to be moved.)
But thou, O God, will bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in thee.