Aleph Blessed are the upright in the way, who walk in the law of Jehovah.
Blessed are those keeping His testimonies, who seek Him with the whole heart.
They also do not work evil; they walk in His way.
You have commanded to carefully keep Your precepts.
O that my ways were fixed to keep Your statutes!
Then I shall not be ashamed, when I look to all Your commands.
I will thank You with integrity of heart, in my learning the judgments of Your righteousness.
I will keep Your statutes; do not forsake me utterly.
Beth By what shall a young man purify his way, to keep it according to Your word?
I have sought You with my whole heart; do not let me wander from Your commands.
I have hidden Your word in my heart, that I might not sin against You.
Blessed are you, O Jehovah; teach me Your statutes.
I have declared all the judgments of Your mouth with my lips;
I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies as over all riches.
I will meditate in Your precepts and I will regard Your ways.
I will delight myself in Your statutes. I will not forget Your word.
Gimel. Deal bountifully with Your servant that I may live, and I will keep Your word.
Open my eyes and I will see wonderful things from Your law.
I am an alien in the earth; hide not Your commandments from me.
My soul is breaking for the longing to Your judgments in every season.
You have rebuked the proud, the cursed ones who go astray from Your commands.
Roll from me reproach and scorn; for I have kept Your testimonies.
Princes also sat, speaking against me; but Your servant meditates on Your laws.
Your testimonies also are my delight and my counselors.
Daleth. My soul clings to the dust; give me life according to Your word.
I have declared my ways, and You answered me; teach me Your statutes.
Make me understand the way of Your precepts, and I will meditate on Your wonders.
My soul drops with grief; Lift me up according to Your word.
Remove from me the way of lying, and favor me with Your law.
I have chosen the way of truth; I have held Your judgments level;
I have clung to Your testimonies; O Jehovah, do not shame me.
I will run the way of Your commands, for You shall enlarge my heart.
He. O Jehovah, teach me the way of Your statutes, and I will keep it to the end.
Make me understand and I will keep Your law, and observe it with the whole heart.
Make me walk in the way of Your commands, for in it I delight.
Bow my heart to Your testimonies, and not to unjust gain.
Turn my eyes from seeing vanity; in Your way give me life.
Make Your word sure to Your servant, who is devoted to Your fear.
Turn away my shame which I fear; for Your judgments are good.
Behold, I have longed for Your precepts; grant to me life in Your righteousness.
Vau. By Your word, according to Your salvation, let Your mercies come to me, O Jehovah.
And I will answer my reprover a word; for I trust in Your word.
And do not take the word of truth completely out of my mouth; for I have hoped in Your judgments.
And I shall keep Your law continually, forever and ever.
And I will walk in a wide space, for I seek Your commands.
And I will speak of Your testimonies before kings, and will not be ashamed.
And I will delight myself in Your commandments, which I have loved.
And I will lift up my hands to Your commandments that I love; and I will meditate on Your statutes.
Zayin. Remember the word to Your servant, on which You made me hope.
This is my comfort in my affliction; for Your word has given me life.
The proud have scorned me utterly; I have not veered from Your law.
I remembered Your judgments from of old, O Jehovah, and I take comfort.
Hot zeal has seized me because of the wicked forsaking Your law.
Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimages.
O Jehovah, I have remembered Your name in the night and have kept Your law.
This was done to me, because I kept Your commandments.
Cheth. Jehovah is my portion; I have said to keep Your words.
I entreated Your face with all my heart; favor me according to Your word.
I mused on my ways and turned my feet to Your testimonies.
I hurried and delayed not to keep Your commands.
The cords of the wicked encircle me; I have not forgotten Your law.
At halves of the night I will rise to give thanks to You because of Your righteous judgments.
I am a companion of all who fear You; yea, of those who keep Your precepts.
O Jehovah, the earth is full of Your mercy; teach me Your statutes.
Teth. You have done good with Your servant, O Jehovah, by Your word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I have believed Your commands.
Before I was afflicted I went astray; but now I have kept Your word.
You are good and do good; teach me Your statutes.
The proud have forged a lie against me; I will keep Your precepts with all my heart.
Their heart is like fat, without feeling; I delight in Your law.
For my good for me that I was afflicted, to learn Your statutes.
The law of Your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver.
Jod. Your hands made me and fixed me; give me discernment that I may learn Your commands.
The ones fearing You will see me and rejoice; for I hoped in Your word.
I know, O Jehovah, Your judgments are right; and in fidelity You afflicted me.
Please let Your mercy be for my comfort, by Your word to Your servant.
Let Your mercies come to me that I may live; for Your law is my delight.
Let the proud be ashamed, for with lies they perverted me; I will muse on Your precepts.
Let fearers of You turn to me, and knowers of Your testimonies.
Let my heart be blameless in Your statutes, that I may not be ashamed.
Kaph. My soul is being consumed for Your salvation; I hope in Your word.
My eyes fail for Your word, saying, When will You comfort me?
For I am like a wineskin in the smoke; I do not forget Your statutes.
As what are the days of Your servant? When will You execute judgment on my persecutors?
The proud have dug pits for me which are not according to Your law.
All Your commands are faithful; they persecute me with lying; help me!
In a little they had finished me on earth; but I did not forsake Your precepts.
Give me life according to Your mercy, and I will keep the testimonies of Your mouth.
Lamed. Your Word is settled in Heaven forever, O Jehovah.
Your fidelity is to generation and generation; You founded the earth, and it stands.
They stand by Your judgments to this day, for all are Your servants.
If Your law had not been my delight, then I had perished in my grief.
I will never forget Your precepts; for with them You gave me life.
I am Yours save me; for I have sought Your precepts.
The wicked waited for me, to destroy me; I will muse on Your testimonies.
I have seen an end to all perfection; Your command is exceedingly broad.
Mem. Oh how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day.
You make me wiser than my enemies by Your commands; for they are forever mine.
I have more wisdom than all my teachers; for Your testimonies are a meditation to me.
I understand more than the aged, for I keep Your precepts.
I have kept my feet from every evil way, to keep Your word.
I turned not from Your judgments; for You have taught me.
How sweet are Your words to my palate! More than honey to my mouth!
By Your precepts I know; so then I hate every false way.
Nun. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
I have sworn and I rise to it , to keep Your righteous judgments.
I am greatly afflicted; O Jehovah, give me life according to Your word.
Please, O Jehovah, accept the free offering of my mouth, and teach me Your judgments.
My life is in my hand continually, yet I do not forget Your law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me; yet I do not wander from Your precepts.
I have inherited Your testimonies forever; for they are the rejoicing of my heart.
I have bowed my heart to do Your statutes always to the end.
Samech. I hate the halfhearted; but I love Your law.
You are my covert and my shield; I hope in Your word.
Depart from me, O evildoers, for I will keep my God's commands.
Uphold me by Your word, that I may live; and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Hold me up and I will be saved; and I will always look to Your statutes.
You have trampled all who go astray from Your statutes for their deceit is falsehood.
As dross You have made all the wicked of the earth to cease; so I love Your testimonies.
My flesh has shivered because of Your fear; and I have feared Your judgments.
Ayin. I have done the just and right thing ; do not leave me to my oppressors.
Be surety for Your servant for good; let not the proud oppress me.
My eyes fail for Your salvation, and for the word of Your righteousness.
Deal with Your servant by Your mercy; and teach me Your statutes.
I am Your servant; make me consider and I will know Your testimonies.
It is time for Jehovah to work; they have broken Your law.
So I have loved Your commands, more than gold, even fine gold.
So I count wholly right all the precepts; I have hated every false way.
Pe. Your testimonies are wonderful; so my soul keeps them.
The entering of Your word gives light, instructing the simple ones.
I opened my mouth and panted; for I longed for Your commands.
Turn to me and favor me, as is the way to those who love Your name.
Fix my steps in Your word; and let no evil rule over me.
Redeem me from the oppression of man; and I will keep Your precepts.
Make Your face shine on Your servant, and teach me Your statutes.
Rivers of waters run down my eyes for they do not keep Your law.
Tzaddi. O Jehovah, You are righteous, and Your judgments right.
You have enjoined Your testimonies as righteous and very faithful.
My zeal has eaten me up, for my enemies have forgotten Your word
Your word is pure and Your servant loves it.
I am small and despised; I do not forget Your precepts.
Your righteousness is forever, and Your law is truth.
Distress and anguish have found me; Your commands are my delight.
The righteousness of Your testimonies is everlasting; make me know and I will live.
Qoph. I cried with my whole heart; O Jehovah, answer me; I will keep Your statutes.
I cried to You; save me and I will keep Your testimonies.
I go before the dawn of day and cry; I hope in Your word.
My eyes go before the night watches, to meditate on Your word.
Hear my voice by Your mercy, O Jehovah; give me life by Your judgment.
The pursuers of mischief draw near; they are far from Your law.
You are near, O Jehovah, and all Your commands are truth.
Of old I have known from Your testimonies, for You have founded them forever.
Resh. Look on my affliction and deliver me; for I do not forget Your law.
Contend for my cause and redeem me; give me life according to Your word.
Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek Your statutes.
O Jehovah, Your tender mercies are great; give me life according to Your judgments.
My persecutors and enemies are many; I do not turn from Your testimonies.
I saw the traitors and was grieved, because they did not keep Your word.
See how I love Your precepts, O Jehovah; give me life according to Your mercy.
The sum of Your word is true; every one of Your righteous judgments endures forever.
Shin. Princes have persecuted me without cause; but my heart has feared at Your word.
I rejoice at Your word, as one who finds great spoil.
I hate and despise lying; but I love Your law.
I praise You seven times a day because of Your righteous judgments.
Great peace is to those who love Your law, and there is no stumblingblock to them.
O Jehovah, I have hoped for Your salvation, and have done Your precepts.
My soul has kept Your testimonies, and I love them very much;
I have kept Your commands and Your testimonies, for all my ways are before You.
Tau. Let my cry come near You, O Jehovah; give me wisdom according to Your word.
Let my prayer come before You; deliver me according to Your word.
My lips shall pour forth praise when You have taught me Your statutes.
My tongue shall answer Your word, for all Your commands are righteousness.
Let Your hand help me; for I have chosen Your precepts
I have longed for Your salvation, O Jehovah; and Your law is my delight.
Let my soul live and it will praise You; and let Your judgments help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek Your servant; for I do not forget Your commandments.