And all the tax collectors and sinners were coming near to Him, to hear Him.
And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This one receives sinners and eats with them.
And He spoke to them this parable, saying,
What man of you having a hundred sheep, and losing one of them, does not leave the ninety nine in the deserted place and go after the lost one until he finds it?
And finding it , he puts it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And coming to the house, he calls together the friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that had been lost.
I say to you that so is joy in Heaven over one sinner repenting, than over ninety nine righteous ones who have no need of repentance.
Or what woman having ten drachmas, if she loses one drachma does not light a lamp and sweep the house, and look carefully until she finds it?
And finding it , she calls together the friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I lost.
I say to you, so there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner repenting.
And He said, A certain man had two sons.
And the younger of them said to the father, Father give me that part of the property falling to me . And he divided the living to them.
And not many days after, gathering up all things, the younger son went away to a distant country. And there he wasted his property, living dissolutely.
But having spent all his things, a severe famine came throughout that country, and he began to be in need.
And going, he was joined to one of the citizens of that country. And he sent him into his fields to feed pigs.
And he longed to fill his stomach from the husks which the pigs ate, but no one gave to him.
But coming to himself he said, How many servants of my father have plenty of loaves, and I am perishing with famine.
Rising up, I will go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I sinned against Heaven and before you,
and I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me as one of your hired servants.
And rising up, he came to his father. But he yet being far away, his father saw him and was moved with pity. And running, he fell on his neck and fervently kissed him.
And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven and before you, and no longer am I worthy to be called your son.
But the father said to his slaves, Bring out the best robe and clothe him, and give a ring for his hand and sandals for his feet.
And bring the fattened calf, slaughter and let us eat and be merry;
for this son of mine was dead, and lived again, and was lost, and was found. And they began to be merry.
But the older son was in a field. And having come, as he drew near to the house, he heard music and dances.
And having called one of the children, he inquired what this may be.
And he said to him, Your brother came, and your father killed the fattened calf, because he received him back in health.
But he was angry and did not desire to go in. Then coming out, his father begged him.
But answering, he said to the father, Behold, so many years I serve you, and never have I transgressed a command of you. And you never gave a goat to me , so that I might be merry with my friends.
But when this son of yours came, the one devouring your living with harlots, you killed the fattened calf for him.
But he said to him, Child, you are always with me, and all of my things are yours.
But to be merry and to rejoice was right, for this brother of yours was dead, and lived again; and being lost, also he was found.