And I loked and loo a lambe stode on the mount Syon and with him C. and xliiii. thousande havynge his fathers name written in their forhedes.
And I herde a voyce from heven as the sounde of many waters and as the voyce of a gret thoundre And I herde the voyce of harpers harpynge with their harpes.
And they songe as it were a newe songe before the seate and before the foure beestes and the elders and no man coulde learne that songe but the hondred and xliiii.M. which were redemed from the erth.
These are they which were not defyled with wemen for they are virgyns. These folowe the lambe whither soever he goeth. These were redemed from men beynge the fyrste frutes vnto God and to the lambe
and in their mouthes was foude no gyle. For they are with oute spott before the trone of god.
And I sawe an angell flye in the myddes of heven havynge an everlastynge gospell to preache vnto them that sytt and dwell on the erth and to all nacions kinreddes and tonges and people
sayinge with a lowde voyce: Feare God and geve honour to him for the houre of his iudgement is come: and worshyppe him that made heven and erth and the see and fountaynes of water.
And there folowed another angell sayinge: Babilon is fallen is fallen that gret cite for she made all nacions drynke of the wyne of hyr fornicacion.
And the thyrde angell folowed them sayinge with aloude voyce: Yf eny man worshippe the beest and his ymage and receave hie marke in his forhed or on his honde
the same shall drynke of the wyne of the wrath of God which is powred in the cuppe of his wrath. And he shalbe punnysshed in fyre and brymstone before the holy Angels and before the lambe.
And the smoke of their turment ascendeth vp evermore. And they have no rest daye ner nyght which worshippe ye beast and his ymage and whosoever receaveth the prynt of his name.
Here is the pacience of saynctes. Heare are they that kepe the commaundmentes and the fayth of Iesu.
And I herde a voyce from heven sayinge vnto me: wryte. Blessed are the deed which here after dye in the lorde even soo sayth the sprete: that they maye rest fro their laboures but their workes shall folowe them.
And I loked and beholde a whyte clowde and apon the clowde one syttynge lyke vnto the sonne of man havynge on his heed a golde crowne and in his honde a sharpe sykle.
And another angell came oute of the temple cryinge with a lowde voyce to him that sate on the clowde. Thruste in thy sycle and repe: for the tyme is come to repe for the corne of the erth is rype.
And he that sate on the clowde thrust in his sykle on the erth and the erth was reped.
And another angell came oute of the temple which is in heven havynge also a sharpe sycle.
And another angell came oute from yt aultre which had power over fyre and cryed with a lowde crye to him that had the sharpe sykle and sayde: thrust in thy sharpe sykle and gaddre the clusters of the erth for her grapes are rype.
And the angell thrust in his sykle on the erth and cut doune the grapes of the vyneyarde of the erth: and cast them into the gret wynefat of the wrath of god
and the wynefat was trodden with out the cite and bloud came oute of the fat eve vnto the hors brydles by the space of a thowsande and .vi.C. furlonges.