And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man. prophesy against the prophets of Israel, who are prophesying,—and say unto them who prophesy out of their own heart, Hear ye the word of Yahweh,
Thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh, Alas for the base prophets,—who follow their own spirit and have seen, nothing.
As jackals, among ruins, thy prophets O Israel have been.
Ye have not gone up into the breaches, Nor built a wall about the house of Israel,- to stand in the battle in the day of Yahweh.
They have had Visions of falsehood, and Divinations of lies, Who say. Declareth Yahweh, when, Yahweh, hath not sent them,— Yet have they waited for a fulfilling of the word.
Is it not a Vision of falsehood, ye have seen, and a Divination of lies, ye have spoken, Since ye are saying. Declareth Yahweh! when I have not spoken?
Therefore Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, Because ye have spoken falsehood, And have had visions of lies, Therefore behold me! against you, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
So then my hand shall be against the prophets who have Visions of falsehood and who divine Divinations of lies— In the council of my people, shall they not be found. And in the register of the house of Israel, shall they not be written, And Upon the so of Israel, shall they not enter,— So shall ye know that, I, am The Lord Yahweh,
Because, yea, even because, they have led astray my people saying. Prosperity! when there was no prosperity,—and one man, was building a partition wall, when there they were! eating it with whitewash
Say thou unto them who are coating with whitewash It shall fall,- There hath come an overflowing rain And I will make hail-stones fall, And a tempestuous wind shall break it down.
Lo! when the wall hath fallen, shall it not be said unto you, Where is the coating, wherewith ye coated it?
Therefore Thus saith my Lord, Yahweh, So will I break down with a tempestuous wind. in mine indignation,— And an overflowing rain in mine anger, shall there be, With hailstones in wrath to make an end;
And I will pull down the wall which ye have coated with whitewash And will bring it unto the ground So shall be discovered its foundation, Yea it shall fall And ye shall come to an end in the midst thereof, So shall ye know that, I, am Yahweh.
Thus will I bring to an end mine indignation against the wall, and against them who were coating it with whitewash, And will say to you No more is the wall, And no more are they who were coating it:
to wit the prophets of Israel who are prophesying unto Jerusalem, and are seeing, on her behalf, visions of prosperity,— when there is no prosperity, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
And thou, Son of man Set thy face against the daughters of thy people, Those who are prophesying out of their own heart,— And prophesy thou against them;
and say, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Alas! for the women Who sew oracle, cases on all elbows And prepare wraps upon the head of every stature to hunt souls,— the souls ye hunt, are those of my people, Whereas your own souls:, ye keep alive.
Thus have ye profaned me unto my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, Putting to death the souls that should not die, and Keeping alive the souls that should not live,— By your lying to my people, who hearken to lies
Therefore, Thus saith my Lord Yahweh, Behold me! against your oracle-cases wherewith ye are hunting the souls to make them fly, And I will tear them off your arms, And let go the souls of them whose souls ye are hunting as birds;
And will tear off your wraps, And deliver my people out of your hand, And they shall be no longer in your hand to be hunted;- So shall ye know that, I, am Yahweh.
Because of the paining of the heart of the righteous man with falsehood, whom, I, have not pained,— And strengthening the hands of the lawless man, that he should not turn from his wicked way. by letting him live
Therefore—of falsehood:, shall ye have no vision, And a divination:, shall ye not divine any more,— So will I deliver my people out of your hand, And ye shall know that, I, am Yahweh.