And the whole multitude of them arose and ledde him vnto Pylate.
And they beganne to accuse him sayinge: We have founde this felowe pervertynge the people and forbiddynge to paye tribute to Cesar: sayinge that he is Christ a kynge.
And Pylate apposed him sayinge: arte thou the kynge of the iewes? He answered him and sayde: thou sayest it.
Then sayde Pylate to the hye prestes and to the people: I fynde noo faute in this man.
And they were the moore fearce sayinge. He moveth the people teachynge thorowout all Iewry and beganne at Galile even to this place.
When Pilate hearde mencion of Galile he axed whether the ma were of Galile.
And assone as he knewe that he was of Herodes iurisdiccion he sent him to Herode which was also at Ierusalem in those dayes.
And when Herode sawe Iesus he was excedinglie gladde. For he was desyrous to se him of a longe season because he had hearde many thinges of him and trusted to have sene some myracle done by him.
Then questeoned he with him of many thinges. But he answered him not one worde.
The hye prestes and scribes stode forthe and accused him straytly.
And Herod wt his men of warre despysed him and mocked him and arayed him in whyte and sent him agayne to Pylate.
And the same daye Pylate and Herod were made frendes togeder. For before they were at variaunce.
And Pylate called to geder the hye prestes and the rulers and the people
and sayde vnto them: Ye have brought this man vnto me as one that perverted the people. And beholde I have examined him before you and have founde no faute in this man of those thinges where of ye accuse him.
No nor yet Herode. For I sent you to him: and lo no thinge worthy of deeth is done to him.
I will therfore chasten him and let him lowsse.
For of necessite he must have let one lowse vnto them at that feast.
And all the people cryed at once sayinge: awaye with him and delyvre to vs Barrabas:
which for insurrccion made in the cite and morther was cast into preson.
Pylate spake agayne to them willynge to let Iesus lowse.
And they cryed sayinge: Crucify him Crucify him
He sayde vnto them the thyrde tyme. What evyll hath he done? I fynde no cause of deeth in him. I will therfore chasten him and let him lowse.
And they cryed with loude voyce and required that he myght be crucifyed. And the voyce of them and of the hye Prestes prevayled.
And Pylate gave sentence that it shuld be as they required
and let lowse vnto them him that for insurreccion and morther was cast into preson whom they desyred: and delyvered Iesus to do with him what they wolde.
And as they ledde him awaye they caught one Symon of Syrene commynge out of the felde: and on him layde they the crosse to beare it after Iesus.
And ther folowed him a greate company of people and of wemen which weme bewayled and lamented him.
But Iesus turned backe vnto them and sayde: Doughters of Ierusalem wepe not for me: but wepe for youre selves and for youre chyldren.
For beholde the dayes will come when men shall saye: happy are the baren and the wombes that never bare and the pappes which never gave sucke.
Then shall they beginne to saye to the mountaynes fall on vs: and to the hilles cover vs.
For yf they do this to a grene tree what shalbe done to the drye?
And ther were two evyll doers ledde with him to be slayne.
And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary there they crucified him and the evyll doers one on ryght honde and the other on the lefte.
Then sayde Iesus: father forgeve them for they woot not what they do. And they parted his rayment and cast loottes.
And the people stode and behelde. And the rulers mocked him with thee saying: he holpe other men let him helpe him selfe yf he be Christ the chosen of god.
The soudiers also mocked him and came and gave him veneger
and sayde: yf thou be that kynge of ye Iewes save thy silfe.
And his superscripcio was writte over him in greke in latine and Ebreu: This is the kynge of the Iewes.
And one of the evyll doers which hanged rayled on him sayinge: If thou be Christ save thy selfe and vs.
The other answered and rebuked him sayinge. Net herfearest thou god because thou arte in the same damnacion?
We are ryghteously punesshed for we receave accordynge to oure dedes: But this man hath done nothinge amysse.
And he sayde vnto Iesus: Lorde remember me when thou comest into thy kyngdome.
And Iesus sayde vnto him: Verely I saye vnto the to daye shalt thou be with me in Paradyse.
And it was about the sixt houre. And ther came a darcknes over all the londe vntyll ye nynth houre
and the sonne was darckened. And the vayle of the temple dyd rent even thorow the myddes.
And Iesus cryed with a greate voyce and sayd: Father into thy hondes I comende my sprete. And when he thus had sayd he gave vp the goost.
When ye Centurion sawe what had happened he glorified God sayinge: Of a surtie this man was perfecte.
And all the people that came to geder to that sight beholdynge the thinges which were done: smoote their bestes and returned home.
And all his acquayntaunce and the wemen that folowed him from Galile stode a farre of beholdynge these thinges.
And beholde ther was a man named Ioseph a councelloure and was a good man and a iuste
and dyd not consent to the counsell and dede of them which was of Aramathia a cite of the Iewes: which same also wayted for ye kyngdome of God:
he went vnto Pilate and begged the boddy of Iesus
and toke it doune and wrapped it in a lynnen clooth and layed it in an hewen toumbe wherin was never man before layed.
And that daye was ye Saboth even and the Saboth drue on.
The wemen that folowed after which came with him from Galile behelde the sepulcre and how his body was layed.
And they returned and prepared odoures and oyntmetes: but rested the Saboth daye accordynge to the commaundement.