Then Iesus answered, and spake vnto them againe in parables, saying,
The kingdome of heauen is like vnto a certaine King which maried his sonne,
And sent foorth his seruants, to call them that were bidde to the wedding, but they woulde not come.
Againe hee sent foorth other seruants, saying. Tell them which are bidden, Beholde, I haue prepared my dinner: mine oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all thinges are readie: come vnto the mariage.
But they made light of it, and went their wayes, one to his farme, and another about his marchandise.
And the remnant tooke his seruants, and intreated them sharpely, and slewe them.
But when the King heard it, he was wroth, and sent foorth his warriers, and destroyed those murtherers, and burnt vp their citie.
Then saide hee to his seruants, Truely the wedding is prepared: but they which were bidden, were not worthy.
Go ye therefore out into the high wayes, and as many as ye finde, bid them to the mariage.
So those seruantes went out into the hie wayes, and gathered together all that euer they found, both good and bad: so the wedding was furnished with ghestes.
Then the King came in, to see the ghestes, and sawe there a man which had not on a wedding garment.
And he sayd vnto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, and hast not on a wedding garment? And he was speachlesse.
Then sayd the King to the seruants, Binde him hand and foote: take him away, and cast him into vtter darkenes: there shalbe weeping and gnashing of teeth.
For many are called, but fewe chosen.
Then went the Pharises and tooke counsell how they might tangle him in talke.
And they sent vnto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we knowe that thou art true, and teachest the way of God truely, neither carest for any man: for thou considerest not the person of men.
Tell vs therefore, how thinkest thou? Is it lawfull to giue tribute vnto Cesar, or not?
But Iesus perceiued their wickednes, and sayd, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?
Shewe me the tribute money. And they brought him a peny.
And he sayde vnto them, Whose is this image and superscription?
They sayd vnto him, Cesars. Then sayd he vnto them, Giue therefore to Cesar, the things which are Cesars, and giue vnto God, those things which are Gods.
And when they heard it, they marueiled, and left him, and went their way.
The same day the Sadduces came to him (which say that there is no resurrection) and asked him,
Saying, Master, Moses sayd, If a man die, hauing no children, his brother shall marie his wife by the right of alliance, and raise vp seede vnto his brother.
Nowe there were with vs seuen brethren, and the first maried a wife, and deceased: and hauing none yssue, left his wife vnto his brother.
Likewise also the second, and the third, vnto the seuenth.
And last of all the woman died also.
Therefore in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seuen? for all had her.
Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, Ye are deceiued, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God.
For in the resurrection they neither marie wiues, nor wiues are bestowed in mariage, but are as the Angels of God in heauen.
And concerning the resurrection of the dead, haue ye not read what is spoken vuto you of God, saying,
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Iacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the liuing.
And when the multitude heard it, they were astonied at his doctrine.
But when the Pharises had heard, that he had put the Sadduces to silence, they assembled together.
And one of them, which was an expounder of the Lawe, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying,
Master, which is ye great commandement in the Lawe?
Iesus sayd to him, Thou shalt loue the Lord thy God with all thine heart, with all thy soule, and with all thy minde.
This is the first and the great commandement.
And the second is like vnto this, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
On these two commandements hangeth the whole Lawe, and the Prophets.
While the Pharises were gathered together, Iesus asked them,
Saying, What thinke ye of Christ? whose sonne is he? They sayd vnto him, Dauids.
He sayd vnto them, How then doeth Dauid in spirit call him Lord, saying,
The Lord sayd to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footestoole?
If then Dauid call him Lord, howe is he his sonne?
And none could answere him a worde, neither durst any from that day foorth aske him any moe questions.