Now concerning the collection for the sanctified, as I arranged for the congregations of Galatia, so also do ye.
Upon the first day of the week let each of you set something aside near himself, storing up whatever he may prosper, so that when I come no collections may be made then.
And when I arrive, whomever ye may approve by letters, I will send these men to bring your gift to Jerusalem.
And if it is fitting for me to go also, they will go with me.
But I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia, for I do pass through Macedonia.
And it may be that I will remain with you, or I will even spend winter, so that ye may set me on my way wherever I go.
For I do not want to see you now in passing, but I hope to remain some time with you, if the Lord allows.
But I will remain at Ephesus until Pentecost.
For a great and effective door has opened to me, and yet there are many who are hostile.
But if Timothy comes, see that he becomes without fear with you, for he works the work of the Lord, as I also.
Let not any man therefore disparage him, but send him forth in peace, so that he may come to me, for I expect him with the brothers.
And about Apollos the brother, I urged him much that he would come to you with the brothers, and it was not at all his will that he should come now, but he will come when he has opportunity.
Watch ye, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong.
Let all things of you be done in love.
Now I beseech you, brothers (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruit of Achaia, and that they committed themselves to service for the sanctified),
that ye also be subject to such men, and to every man working together and laboring.
And I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these men filled your lack.
For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge ye such men.
The congregations of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the congregation associated with their house.
All the brothers salute you. Salute each other by a holy kiss.
The salutation of Paul by my hand.
If any man does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Maranatha.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ is with you.
My love is with you all in Christ Jesus. Truly.