And they came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gadarenes.
And He coming out from the boat, immediately out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit met Him,
who had his abode among the tombs; and no one was able to bind him, not even with chains.
Because he had often been bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been torn by him, and the fetters had been shattered. And no one was able to subdue him.
And continually night and day in the hills, and in the tombs, he was crying and cutting himself with stones.
And seeing Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed the knee to Him.
And crying with a loud voice, he said, What is to me and to You, Jesus, Son of the most high God? I adjure You by God, do not torment me.
For He said to him, Unclean spirit, come out of the man!
And He asked him, What is your name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, because we are many.
And he begged Him very much that He would not send them outside the country.
And a great herd of pigs were feeding there near the mountain.
And all the demons begged Him, saying, Send us into the pigs, that we may enter into them.
And Jesus immediately allowed them. And coming out, the unclean spirits entered into the pigs. And the herd rushed down the cliff into the sea (and they were about two thousand), and they were choked in the sea.
And those who fed the pigs fled, and they told it to the city, and to the fields. And they came out to see what was happening.
And they came to Jesus, and stared at the one who had been demon possessed, sitting and being clothed, and being in his senses, the one who had the legion. And they feared.
And those seeing it related to them how it happened to the one who had been demon possessed, and about the pigs.
And they began to beg Him to depart from their borders.
And He having entered into the boat, the former demoniac begged Him, that he be with Him.
But Jesus did not allow him, but said to him, Go to your house, to your own, and announce to them what the Lord has done to you and had mercy on you.
And he left and began to proclaim in Decapolis what Jesus did to him. And all marveled.
And Jesus having crossed over in the boat again to the other side, a large crowd gathered upon Him; and He was by the sea.
And, behold, one of the synagogue rulers named Jairus came. And seeing Him, he fell at His feet.
And he begged Him very much, saying, My daughter is at the last end. I pray that You will come and lay hands on her, that she may be cured and live.
And He went with him. And a large crowd followed Him and pressed on Him.
And a certain woman being with a flow of blood twelve years,
and who had suffered many things by many physicians, and had spent all things that she had, and gaining nothing, but rather coming to worse,
hearing about Jesus, coming in the crowd behind Him , she touched His garment.
For she said, If I may but touch His garments, I will be cured.
And instantly the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she knew in her body that she was healed of the plague.
And knowing instantly within Himself that power had gone forth out of Him, turning in the crowd, Jesus said, Who touched My garments?
And His disciples said to Him, You see the crowd pressing on You, and do You say, Who touched Me?
And He looked around to see the one who had done this.
And the woman, being afraid and trembling, knowing what had happened on her, she came and fell down before Him and told Him all the truth.
And He said to her, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be whole from your plague.
As He was speaking, they came from the synagogue ruler saying, Your daughter has died. Why do you still trouble the Teacher?
But hearing the word spoken, Jesus said to the synagogue ruler at once, Do not fear, only believe.
And He did not allow anyone to go with Him except Peter and James and John, the brother of James.
And they came into the synagogue ruler's house. And He saw a tumult, and weeping and much wailing.
And going in, He said to them, Why do you make a tumult and weep? The child has not died, but is sleeping.
And they laughed at Him. But putting all out, He took along the father and the mother of the child, and those with Him, and passed on into where the child was lying.
And taking hold of the child's hand, He said to her, Talitha koumi; which is, being translated, Little girl, I say to you, Rise up!
And immediately the little girl rose up and walked. For she was twelve years old . And they were amazed with great amazement.
And very much He directed them that no one should know this. And He said to give her something to eat.