And the king sent, and they gathered to him all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
And the king went up to the house of Jehovah, and every man of Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, from small to great; and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the house of Jehovah.
And the king stood by the pillar, and made the covenant before Jehovah, to walk after Jehovah, and to keep His commandments, and His testimonies, and His statutes, with all his heart, and with all his soul, to lift up the words of this covenant that were written in this Book. And all the people stood to the covenant.
And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring out from the temple of Jehovah all the vessels that were made for Baal, and for Asherah, and for all the host of the heavens. And he burned them at the outside of Jerusalem, in the fields of Kidron, and carried their ashes to Bethel.
And he caused to cease the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had appointed to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah, and in the places around Jerusalem, and those burning incense to Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to constellations, and to all the host of the heavens.
And he brought out the Asherah from the house of Jehovah to the outside of Jerusalem, to the torrent Kidron, and burned it at the torrent Kidron, and ground it to powder, and threw the powder of it on the graves of the sons of the people.
And he broke down the houses of the male prostitutes that were in the house of Jehovah, where the women were weaving houses for Asherah.
And he made come in all the priests out of the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests burned incense , from Geba to Beersheba, and broke down the high places of the gates that were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on a man's left hand at the gate of the city.
However the priests of the high places did not come up to the altar of Jehovah in Jerusalem, but they ate unleavened bread among their brothers.
And he defiled Topheth in the valley of the sons of Hinnom, so that no man could cause his son and his daughter to pass through the fire of Molech.
And he caused to cease the horses that the kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entrance of the house of Jehovah, by the room of Nathan-melech the eunuch, that was in the suburbs. And he burned with fire the chariots of the sun.
And the altars that were on the top of the upper room of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made. and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of Jehovah. the king broke down, and ran from there and threw the dust of them into the torrent Kidron.
And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand of the Mount of Corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the idol of the Sidonians, and for Chemosh the idol of the Moabites, and for Milcom the idol of the sons of Ammon, the king defiled.
And he broke the images in pieces, and cut down the Asherahs, and filled their place with the bones of men.
And also the altar that was in Bethel. the high place that Jeroboam the son of Nebat had made by which he made Israel to sin, both that altar and the high place he broke down, and burned the high place; he ground it into powder, and burned the Asherah.
And Josiah turned and saw the graves that were there in the mount, and sent and took the bones out of the graves and burned them on the altar, and defiled it according to the word of Jehovah that the man of God had proclaimed, who had proclaimed these things.
And he said, What is this monument that I see? And the men of the city said to him The grave of the man of God who came from Judah and proclaimed these things that you have done concerning the altar of Bethel.
And he said, Let him alone, let no one touch his bones. And they let his bones escape with the bones of the prophet that came out of Samaria.
And also all the houses of the high places in the cities of Samaria, that the kings of Israel had made to provoke to anger, Josiah took away, and to them according to all the acts that he had done in Bethel.
And he slaughtered all the priests of the high places who were there by the altars, and burned the bones of man upon them, and returned to Jerusalem.
And the king commanded all the people, saying, Prepare a Passover to Jehovah your God, as it is written in this book of the covenant.
Surely none has been prepared like this Passover from the days of the Judges who judged Israel even to all the days of the kings of Israel, and of the kings of Judah;
but in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, this Passover was prepared to Jehovah in Jerusalem.
And also the mediums and the soothsayers and the family gods, and the idols, and all the abominations that were seen in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, Josiah put away in order to fulfill the words of the law that were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest had found in the house of Jehovah.
And there was no king before him like him, who turned to Jehovah with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses; and after him none rose up like him.
However, Jehovah did not turn away from the fury of His great anger with which His anger glowed against Judah, because of all the provocations with which Manasseh had provoked Him.
And Jehovah said, I will also turn away Judah from My face, as I turned away Israel, and I will reject this city that I have chosen, Jerusalem, and the house of which I have said, My name shall be there.
And the rest of the acts of Josiah, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
In his days Pharaoh-necho the king of Egypt came up against the king of Assyria by the river Euphrates; and king Josiah went out to meet him, and he killed him in Megiddo, when he saw him.
And his servants made him ride dead from Megiddo, and brought him to Jerusalem, and they buried him in his own grave. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and anointed him, and made him king in place of his father.
Jehoahaz was a son of twenty three years when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
And he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah according to all that his fathers did.
And Pharaoh-necho bound him in Riblah, in the land of Hamath, from reigning in Jerusalem, and he put a fine on the land, a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
And Pharaoh-necho made Eliakim the son of Josiah to reign instead of Josiah his father, and turned his name into Jehoiakim; and he took away Jehoahaz, and he came to Egypt and died there.
And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh; but he taxed the land to give the silver by the mouth of Pharaoh. From each, according to his valuation, he exacted the silver and gold from the people of the land, to give to Pharaoh-necho.
Jehoiakim was a son of twenty five years when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eleven years; and the name of his mother was Zebudah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
And he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah according to all that his fathers did.