Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany, of the village of Mary and Martha her sister.
And Mary was she who anointed the Lord with perfume, and wiped his feet with her hair—whose brother Lazarus was sick.
The sisters, therefore, sent out unto him, saying—Lord, see! he whom thou tenderly lovest, is sick.
But Jesus hearing, said—This sickness, is not unto death, but for the glory of God,—that the Son of God may be glorified thereby.
Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
When, therefore, he heard that he was sick, then, indeed, he abode in the place where he was, two days.
Then, after this, he saith unto the disciples—Let us be leading on into Judaea, again.
The disciples say unto him—Rabbi! just now, were the Jews seeking to stone thee—and, again, goest thou thither?
Jesus answered—Are there not, twelve hours, in the day? If one walk in the day, he doth no stumble, because, the light of this world, he seeth;
But, if one walk in the night, he stumbleth, because, the light, is not in him.
These things, he said, and, after this, he saith unto them—Lazarus, our dear friend, hath fallen asleep; but I am going, that I may awake him.
The disciples, therefore, said unto him—Lord! if he have fallen asleep, he will recover.
But Jesus had spoken concerning his death; whereas, they, supposed that, concerning the taking of rest in sleep, he had been speaking.
Jesus, therefore, then, said unto them, plainly,—Lazarus, died;
and I rejoice, for your sake—that ye may believe,—that I was not there; but let us be going unto him.
Thomas, therefore, the one called Didymus, said unto his fellow-disciples—Let, us also, be going, that we may die with him.
Jesus, therefore, coming, found that, four days already, had he been in the tomb.
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off;
and, many from among the Jews, had come unto Martha and Mary, that they might console them concerning their brother.
Martha, therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet him; but, Mary, in the house, remained sitting.
Martha, therefore, said unto Jesus—Lord! if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died;
And, now, I know, that, whatsoever thou shalt ask of God, God, will give unto thee.
Jesus saith unto her—Thy brother shall rise.
Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise, in the resurrection, in the last day.
Jesus said unto her—I, am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth on me, even though he die, shall live again!
And, no one who liveth again and believeth on me, shall in anywise die, unto times age-abiding. Believest thou this?
She saith unto him—Yea, Lord! I, have believed, that, thou, art the Christ, the Son of God,—He who, into the world, should come.
And this saying, she went away, and called Mary her sister, secretly, saying—The teacher, is present, and calleth thee.
And, she, when she heard, was roused up quickly, and was coming unto him.
Not yet, however, had Jesus come into the village, but was still in the place where, Martha, met him.
The Jews, therefore, who were with her in the house and consoling her, seeing Mary, that quickly she arose and went out, followed her, supposing that she was withdrawing unto the tomb, that she might weep there.
Mary, therefore, when she came where Jesus was, seeing him, fell at his feet, saying unto him—Lord! if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
Jesus, therefore, when he saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her weeping, was indignant in the spirit, and troubled himself,
and said—Where have ye laid him? They say unto him—Lord! come and see.
Jesus wept.
The Jews, therefore, were saying—See! how tenderly he loved him!
But, some from among them, said—Could not this man, who opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that, this one also, should not have died?
Jesus, therefore, again, being indignant within himself, cometh unto the tomb. Now it was a cave, and, a stone, was lying thereon.
Jesus, saith, Take ye away the stone! Martha, the sister of the deceased, saith unto him—Lord! by this time, he stinketh, for it is, four days.
Jesus saith unto her—Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldst believe, thou shouldst see the glory of God?
So they took away the stone. And, Jesus, lifted up his eyes on high, and said—Father! I thank thee, thou didst hear me:
I, indeed, knew that, always, unto me, thou dost hearken; but, for the sake of the multitude standing around, I spake,—that they might believe that, thou, didst send me forth.
And, these things, having said, with a loud voice, he cried out—Lazarus! Come forth!
He that was dead came forth, bound feet and hands with bandages, and, his face, with a napkin, was bound about. Jesus saith unto them—Loose him, and let him go.
Many therefore from among the Jews, who had come unto Mary, and gazed on what he did, believed on him
but, certain from among them, went away unto the Pharisees, and told them what Jesus had done.
The High-priests and Pharisees, therefore, brought together a high-council, and were saying—What are we to do, in that, this man, doeth, many signs?
If we let him alone thus, all, will believe on him, and the Romans will come, and take away, both our place and nation.
But, a certain one from among them, Caiaphas, being, High-priest, for that year, said unto them—Ye, know, nothing at all;
nor do ye take into account, that it is profitable for you that, one man, should die for the people, and not, the whole nation, perish.
This, however, from himself, he spake not, but, being, High-priest, for that year, he prophesied, that Jesus was about to die for the nation;
and, not for the nation only, but that, the scattered children of God also, he might gather together into one.
From that day, therefore, they took counsel, that they might put him to death.
Jesus, therefore, no longer openly, was walking among the Jews, but departed thence, into the country near the desert, unto a city called, Ephraim; and, there, abode, with his disciples.
Now the passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up unto Jerusalem, out of the country, before the passover, that they might purify themselves.
They were therefore seeking Jesus, and were saying one to another, in the temple, standing—How seemeth it unto you? that he will in nowise come unto the feast?
Now the High-priests and the Pharisees had given commands, that, if anyone came to know where he was, he should inform [them], so that they might seize him.