HAVING therefore these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Give us a favourable reception: we have injured no man, we have corrupted no man, we have defrauded no man.
I speak not for your condemnation, for I have already said, that ye are in our hearts to die and live together.
Great is my freedom of speech to you, great is my glorying over you: I am filled with consolation, I overflow with joy in all our tribulation.
For when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were afflicted on every side; without were fightings; within were fears.
But God that comforteth the lowly comforted us by the coming of Titus:
and not by his coming only, but also by the consolation wherewith he had been comforted among you, declaring to us your fervent desire, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced the more.
For if I grieved you by a letter, I do not repent, though I did repent: for I perceive that this letter made you sorry, though but for a season.
Now I rejoice, not that ye have been made sorrowful, but that ye have sorrowed unto repentance; for ye have been made sorry in a godly manner, that ye might receive damage from us in nothing.
For sorrow of a godly sort worketh repentance unto salvation never to be repented of, but worldly sorrow worketh death.
For behold this very thing, that ye were made sorry after a godly manner, how great diligence did it produce in you! yea, what apologizing! yea, what indignation! yea, what fear! yea, what earnest desire! yea, what zeal! yea, what vengeance! In every step ye have approved yourselves as pure in this affair.
And indeed though I wrote unto you, I did it not merely for his cause that had done the wrong, nor for his cause who had suffered the injury, but that our diligent attention for you might be more abundantly manifested to you in the presence of God.
Therefore we were comforted in your consolation; and exceeding abundantly the more rejoiced we in the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all.
For if I have boasted of you to him in any thing, I am not ashamed; but as we have spoken all things to you in truth, so our boasting of you to Titus hath been found truth.
And his bowels more abundantly yearn over you, when he remembers the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling ye received him.
I rejoice therefore that in every thing I have confidence in you.