And he also spoke a parable to them about it being necessary to always pray, and not to give up,
saying, In a certain city there was a judge who did not fear God, and did not regard man.
And a widow was in that city, and she came to him, saying, Avenge me of my opponent.
And for a time he would not, but after these things he said within himself, Although I fear not God, and regard not man,
yet because this widow causes me a beating, I will avenge her, lest by no end of coming she give me a black eye.
And the Lord said, Hear ye what the unrighteous judge says.
And God, will he, no, not do the vengeance of his chosen who cry out to him day and night, and yet being patient toward them?
I say to you, that he will do their vengeance speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of man comes, will he then find faith on the earth?
And he also spoke this parable to some of those who were persuaded in themselves that they were righteous, and disdained other men.
Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector.
Having stood by himself, the Pharisee prayed these things: God, I thank thee that I am not as the rest of men, predatory, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector.
I fast twice of the week. I tithe all things, as many as I acquire.
But the tax collector, having stood from afar, would not even lift his eyes to the sky, but beat upon his breast, saying, God, be thou merciful to me a sinful man.
I say to you, this man went down to his house justified rather than that man. Because every man who lifts himself up will be made lower, and he who makes himself lower will be lifted up.
And they were also bringing the infants to him, so that he would touch them, but when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
But having summoned them, Jesus said, Allow the children to come to me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, whoever will not receive the kingdom of God as a child, will, no, not enter into it.
And a certain ruler questioned him, saying, Good teacher, having done what, will I inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him, Why do thou call me good? None is good except one, God.
Thou know the commandments. Thou shall not commit adultery. Thou shall not murder. Thou shall not steal. Thou shall not give false testimony. Honor thy father and thy mother.
And he said, All these things I have kept from my youth.
And when he heard these things, Jesus said to him, Yet one thing is lacking from thee. Sell all things, as many as thou have, and distribute to the poor, and thou will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me.
But when he heard these things, he became very sorrowful, for he was very rich.
And having seen him become very sorrowful, Jesus said, How difficultly those who have riches will enter into the kingdom of God.
For it is easier for a camel to enter in through the hole of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And those who heard it said, And who can be saved?
And he said, The things impossible with men are possible with God.
And Peter said, Lo, we have left all and followed thee.
And he said to them, Truly I say to you, that there is no man who has left house, or parents, or brothers, or wife, or children for the sake of the kingdom of God,
who will, no, not receive back manifold more in this time, and in the coming age eternal life.
And having taken along the twelve, he said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written through the prophets about the Son of man will be completed.
For he will be delivered up to the Gentiles, and he will be mocked and insulted and spit upon.
And after scourging, they will kill him, and the third day he will rise up.
And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hidden from them, and they did not understand the things that were said.
And it came to pass as he approached Jericho, a certain blind man sat beside the road begging.
And having heard a multitude going by, he inquired what this may be.
And they informed him that Jesus the Nazarene passes by.
And he cried out, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, be merciful to me.
And those who went ahead rebuked him, so that he would be quiet, but he cried out much more, Thou son of David, be merciful to me.
And having stood still, Jesus commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he questioned him,
saying, What do thou that I would do to thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive sight.
And Jesus said to him, Receive sight. Thy faith has healed thee.
And immediately he received sight, and followed him glorifying God. And all the people when they saw it gave praise to God.