And when it was time to sail, we having been torn away from them, running direct we came to Cos, and on the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
And finding a ship crossing over to Phoenice, going on board we set sail:
and sighting Cyprus, and leaving it on the left, we sailed to Syria, and came down to Tyre; for the ship was unloading the cargo there.
And finding disciples, we remained there seven days; who told Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem.
But when it was time for us to complete the days, going out, we traveled. And they , with all the women and children went with us as far as outside the city. And placing the knees on the shore, we prayed.
And giving parting greetings to one another, we went up into the ship, and those went back to their own.
And completing the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais. And having greeted the brothers, we remained one day with them.
And on the morrow, those around him going out, Paul came to Caesarea. And going into the house of Philip the evangelist, he being of the Seven, we stayed with him.
And there were four virgin daughters to this one, who prophesied.
And we remaining more days, a certain prophet from Judea named Agabus came down.
And coming to us, and taking Paul's girdle, and binding his hands and feet, he said, The Holy Spirit says these things : In Jerusalem the Jews will bind in this way the man whose belt this is, and will deliver him up into the hands of the nations.
And when we heard these things, both we and those of the place begged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
But Paul answered, What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I not only am ready to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
And he not being persuaded, we were silent, saying, The will of the Lord be done .
And after these days, having made ready, we went up to Jerusalem.
And also some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us, bringing Mnason, a certain Cypriot, an ancient disciple, with whom we might lodge.
And we being in Jerusalem, the brothers joyfully received us.
And on the next day , Paul went in with us to James. And all the elders came.
And having greeted them, he related one by one what things God had worked among the nations through his ministry.
And hearing, they glorified the Lord, and said to him, You see, brother, how many myriads there are of Jews that have believed, and all are zealous ones of the Law.
And they were informed about you, that you teach falling away from Moses, telling all the Jews throughout the nations not to circumcise their children, nor to walk in the customs.
What then is it? At all events, a multitude must come together, for they will hear that you have come.
Then do this, what we say to you: There are four men who have a vow on themselves;
taking these, be purified with them, and be at expense on them, that they may shave the head. And all shall know that all what they have been told about you is nothing, but you yourself walk orderly, keeping the Law.
And as to the believing nations, we joined in writing, judging them to observe no such thing, except to keep themselves from both idol sacrifice, and the blood, and a thing strangled, and from fornication.
Then taking the men on the next day, being purified with them, Paul went into the temple, declaring the fulfillment of the days of the purification, until the offering should be offered for each one of them.
But when the seven days were about to be completed, having seen him in the temple, the Jews from Asia stirred up all the crowd, and they laid hands on him,
crying out, Men, Israelites, help! This is the man who teaches all everywhere against the people and the Law and this place. And even more, he also brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place.
For they had before seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed that Paul brought into the temple.
And the whole city was moved, and there was a running together of people. And having laid hold of Paul, they drew him outside of the temple, and at once the doors were shut.
But as they were seeking to kill him, a report came up to the chiliarch of the cohort, that all Jerusalem is in a tumult.
He at once ran down to them, taking soldiers and centurions. And seeing the chiliarch and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
Then going near, the chiliarch laid hold of him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains. And he asked who he might be, and what he is doing.
But others cried something else in the crowd, and not being able to know the certainty because of the uproar, he commanded him brought into the fortress.
But when he came on the stairs, it happened he was borne by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd.
For the multitude of the people followed, crying out, Take him away!
But being about to be brought into the fortress, Paul said to the chiliarch, Is it lawful for me to say a thing to you? And he said, Do you know to speak in Greek?
Then are you not the Egyptian who before these days caused a riot, and led four thousand men of the assassins out into the desert?
But Paul said, Indeed I am a man, a Jew of Tarsus, of Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city. And I beg you, allow me to speak to the people.
And he allowing him, standing on the stairs, Paul signaled with his hand to the people. And much silence taking place, he spoke in the Hebrew dialect, saying,