And wryte vnto the messenger of the congregacion of Sardis: this sayth he that hath the sprete of god and the vii. starres. I knowe thy workes thou haste a name that thou lvyest and thou art deed
Be awake and strength the thynges which remayne that are redy to dye. For I have not founde thy workes perfaycte before god.
Remember therfore how thou hast receaved and hearde and hold faste and repet. Yf thou shalt not watche I will come on ye as a thefe and thou shalt not knowe what houre I wyll come apon the
Thou haste a feawe names in Sardis which have not defyled their garmentes: and they shall walke with me in whyte for they are worthy
He that overcometh shalbe clothed in whyte araye and I will not put out his name out of the boke of lyfe and I will confesse his name before my father and before his angelles.
Let him that hath eares heare what the sprete sayth vnto the congregacions.
And wryte vnto ye tydinges bringer of ye cogregacio of Philadelphia: this sayth he yt is holy and true which hath ye keye of Dauid: which openyth and noma shutteth and shutteth and no ma openeth.
I knowe thy workes. Beholde I have set before the an open doore and no man can shut it for thou haste a lyttell strengthe and haste kept my sayinges: and haste not denyed my name.
Beholde I make them of the congregacion of Sathan which call them selves Iewes and are not but do lye: Beholde: I will make them that they shall come and worshippe before thy fete: and shall knowe that I love the.
Because thou hast kept ye wordes of my paciece therfore I will kepe ye fro the houre of teptacion which will come upo all ye worlde to tempte them yt dwell vpo the erth.
Beholde I come shortly. Holde that which thou haste that no man take awaye thy croune
Him that overcometh will I make a pyllar in the temple of my God and he shall goo no more oute. And I will wryt vpo him the name of my God and the name of ye cite of my god newe Ierusale which cometh doune oute of heve fro my God and I will wryte vpon him my newe name.
Let him that hath eares heare what the sprete sayth vnto the congregacions.
And vnto the messenger of ye congregacio which is in Laodicia wryte: This sayth (ame) the faythfull and true witnes ye begynninge of the creatures of God.
I knowe thy workes yt thou arte nether colde nor hot: I wolde thou were colde or hotte.
So then because thou arte bitwene bothe and nether colde ner hot I will spew ye oute of my mouth:
because thou sayst thou arte riche and incresyd wt goodes and haste nede of nothynge and knowest not howe thou arte wretched and miserable poore blinde and nakyd.
I counsell the to bye of me golde tryed in the fyre that thou mayste be riche and whyte raymet yt thou mayste be clothed yt thy fylthy nakednes do not apere: and anoynt thyne eyes with eye salve yt thou mayste se.
As many as I love I rebuke and chasten. Be fervent therfore and repet.
Beholde I stode at the doore and knocke. Yf eny man heare my voyce and opon the dore I will come in vnto him and will suppe with him and he with me.
To him that overcommeth will I graunte to sytt with me in my seate evyn as I overcam and have sytten with my father in his seate.
Lett him yt hath eares heare what the sprete sayth vnto the congregacions.