The sons of Aaron also had their courses. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no children; therefore, Eleazar and Ithamar had the priesthood.
And David distributed them, Zadok [being] of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their turns in their ministry.
And there were more men found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar, and [thus] were they divided. Among the sons of Eleazar, [there were] sixteen chief men of the houses of [their] fathers and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the houses of their fathers.
They divided them, therefore, by lot, one with another for of the sons of Eleazar and of the sons of Ithamar there were princes of the sanctuary and princes of God.
And Shemaiah, the scribe, the son of Nethaneel, [one] of the Levites, wrote them before the king and the princes and before Zadok, the priest, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers of the priests and Levites; one paternal house being taken for Eleazar, and [one] taken for Ithamar.
Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Aphses,
the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel,
the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
These [were] their orderings in their service to come into the house of the LORD, according to their right, in the ministry of Aaron, their father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.
And of the sons of Levi that remained: Of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
Rehabiah; of the sons of Rehabiah, the chief [was] Isshiah.
Of the Izharite; Shelomoth; and the son of Shelomoth, Jahath.
And of the sons of Jeriah: Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
The sons of Uzziel: Michah; and the son of Michah, Shamir.
The brother of Michah [was] Isshiah; and the son of Isshiah, Zechariah.
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; the son of Jaaziah, Beno.
The sons of Merari by Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri.
Of Mahli [came] Eleazar, who had no sons.
Kish; the son of Kish, Jerahmeel.
The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These [were] the sons of the Levites according to the houses of their fathers.
These, likewise, cast lots over against their brethren, the sons of Aaron, in the presence of David, the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the principal fathers over against their younger brethren.: