On that day, a portion, was read in the book of Moses, in the ears of the people,—and it was found written therein, that the Ammonite and the Moabite should not enter into the convocation of God, unto times age-abiding;
because they met not the sons of Israel, with bread and with water,—but hired against them Balaam, to curse them, although our God turned the curse into a blessing.
So it came to pass, when they had heard the law,—that they separated all the mixed multitude from Israel.
Now, before this, Eliashib the priest, who was set over a chamber of the house of God, was allied unto Tobiah;
so he prepared him a large chamber, where aforetime they used to lay the meal-offering, the frankincense, and the utensils, and the tithe of the corn, the new wine and the oil, in charge of the Levites, and the singers, and the doorkeepers,—and the heave-offerings for the priests.
But, throughout all this [time], was I not in Jerusalem,—for, in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon, I came unto the king, and, at the end of certain days, obtained I leave of the king;
and came to Jerusalem,—and had intelligence of the wickedness which Eliashib had committed for Tobiah, in preparing for him a chamber, in the courts of the house of God;
and it grieved me exceedingly,—and I cast forth all the household utensils of Tobiah, outside of the chamber.
Then commanded I, and they purified the chambers,—and I put back there, the utensils of the house of God, the meal-offering and the frankincense.
Then came I to know, that, the portions of the Levites, had not been given [them],—so that the Levites and the singers, who had been doing the work, had fled every one to his field.
Therefore contended I with the deputies, and said, Wherefore is the house of God, forsaken? So I gathered them together, and set them in their place.
Then, all Judah, brought in the tithe of corn, and new wine, and oil, unto the treasuries;
and I made treasurers over the treasuries—Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah from among the Levites, and, next unto them, Hanan son of Zaccur, son of Mattaniah,—for faithful were they accounted, and it was [laid] upon them to distribute unto their brethren.
Remember me, O my God, concerning this,—and do not wipe out my lovingkindnesses, which I have done for the house of my God, and for those keeping charge thereof.
In those days, saw I in Judah—some treading winepresses on the sabbath, and bringing in sheaves and lading asses, moreover also wine, grapes, and figs, and every kind of burden, which they were bringing into Jerusalem on the sabbath day,—so I protested against it, as a day for them to sell provisions.
And, men of Tyre, dwelt therein, who were bringing in fish—and every kind of ware for sale,—and were selling, on the sabbath, to the sons of Judah, and in Jerusalem;
so I contended with the nobles of Judah,—and said unto them, What is this wicked thing which, ye, are doing, and profaning the sabbath day?
Was it not, thus, your fathers did, and our God brought upon us all this calamity, and upon this city?—and, ye, would add indignation against Israel, by profaning the sabbath!
And it came to pass, when the gates of Jerusalem made a shadow before the sabbath, then gave I word, and they shut the doors, and I gave word, that they should not open them, until after the sabbath,—and, some of my young men, set I near the gates, so that no burden should be brought in, on the sabbath day.
But the traders and sellers of all kinds of wares lodged outside Jerusalem once or twice.
Therefore I testified against them, and said unto them, Wherefore are ye lodging against the wall? if ye do it again, a hand, will I thrust upon you,—From that time, they came not on the sabbath.
And I gave word to the Levites, that they should be purifying themselves and coming in, as keepers of the gates, to hallow the sabbath day. This also, remember to me, O my God, and have pity upon me, according to the abundance of thy lovingkindness.
Moreover, in these days, saw I the Jews who had married women of Ashdod, of Ammon, of Moab;
and, their children, were one-half speaking the language of Ashdod, and understood not how to speak the language of the Jews,—but after the tongue of both people.
So I contended with them, and laid a curse upon them, and I smote, from among them, certain men, and pulled out their hair,—and I put them on oath by God, Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take of their daughters, for your sons nor for yourselves.
Was it not, over these things, that Solomon king of Israel sinned—though, among many nations, there was no king such as he, and he was, beloved by his God, and so God gave him to be king over all Israel,—even him, did foreign women, cause to sin.
Unto you, then, shall we hearken, to do all this great wickedness, to act unfaithfully with our God,—by marrying foreign wives?
And, one of the sons of Joiada, son of Eliashib the high priest, was son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite,—therefore I chased him from me.
Remember them, O my God,—on account of the Defilings of the Priesthood, and the Covenant of the Priesthood, and of the Levites.
So I purified them from everything foreign,—and appointed charges unto the priests and unto the Levites, every one in his work;
also for the offering of wood, at times appointed, and for the firstfruits. Remember me, O my God, for good!