And having called His twelve disciples, He gave them authority over unclean spirits, so as to throw them out, and to heal every disease and every weakness of body.
And the names of the twelve apostles are these: First, Simon who is called Peter and his brother Andrew, James the son of Zebedee and his brother John,
Philip, and Bartholomew, Thomas, and Matthew the tax-collector, James the son of Alpheus, and Lebbaeus, whose last name was Thaddaeus,
Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.
Jesus sent these twelve out, charging them, saying: Do not go into the way of the nations, and do not go into a Samaritan city.
But rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And going on, proclaim, saying, The kingdom of Heaven has drawn near.
Heal sick ones, cleanse lepers, raise dead ones, cast out demons. You have freely received, freely give.
Do not provide gold, nor silver, nor copper in your belts,
nor provision bag for the road, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor staves. For the worker is worthy of his food.
And into whatever city or village you enter, search out who in it is worthy; and remain there until you go out.
But entering into the house, greet it;
and if the house truly is worthy, let your peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
And whoever will not receive you, nor will hear your words, having gone out of that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet.
Truly I say to you, It will be more bearable to the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in Judgment Day than for that city.
Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore, be wise as serpents and harmless as doves.
But beware of men. For they will betray you to sanhedrins, and they will flog you in their synagogues.
And also you will be brought before governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony to them and to the nations.
But when they deliver you up, do not be anxious how or what you should say, for it is given to you in that hour what you should say.
For you are not the ones speaking, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.
But brother will betray brother to death, and the father his child. And children will rise up against parents and will put them to death.
And you will be hated by all on account of My name, but the one enduring to the end shall be kept safe.
But when they persecute you in this city, flee to another. For truly I say to you, In no way will you have finished the cities of Israel until the Son of man comes.
A disciple is not above the teacher, nor a slave above his lord.
It is enough for the disciple to become as his teacher, and the slave as his lord. If they called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more those of his household?
Therefore, you should not fear them, for nothing is covered which will not be uncovered; and hidden, which will not be made known.
What I say to you in the darkness, speak in the light. And what you hear in the ear, proclaim on the housetops.
And you should not fear the ones killing the body, but not being able to kill the soul. But rather fear Him being able to destroy both soul and body in Hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for an assarion? Yet not one of them shall fall to the ground without your Father.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Then do not fear; you are better than many sparrows.
Then everyone who shall confess Me before men, I will also confess him before My Father in Heaven.
But whoever denies Me before men, I also will deny him before My Father in Heaven.
Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword.
I came to dissever a man from his father, and a daughter from her mother, and a bride from her mother-in-law.
"And a man's enemies shall be those of his own house." Mic. 7:6
He that loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me. And he that loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me.
And whoever does not take up his cross and follow after Me is not worthy of Me.
The one finding his life shall lose it. And the one losing his life on account of Me shall find it.
The one receiving you receives Me, and the one receiving Me receives Him who sent Me.
The one receiving a prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one receiving a just one in the name of a just one will receive a just one's reward.
And whoever gives only a cup of cold water to drink to one of these little ones in the name of a disciple, truly I say to you, In no way will he lose his reward.