But after the sabbaths, at the dawning of the first of the sabbaths, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the grave.
And, behold! A great earthquake occurred! For descending from Heaven and coming near, an angel of the Lord rolled away the stone from the door and was sitting on it.
And his face was as lightning and his clothing white as snow.
And those keeping guard were shaken from the fear of him, and they became as dead.
But answering, the angel said to the women, You must not fear, for I know that you seek Jesus who has been crucified.
He is not here, for He was raised, as He said. Come, see the place where the Lord was lying.
And going quickly say to His disciples that He was raised from the dead. And behold! He goes before you into Galilee. You will see Him there. Behold! I told you.
And going away from the tomb quickly, with fear and great joy, they ran to report to His disciples.
But as they were going to report to His disciples, behold, Jesus also met them, saying, Hail! And coming near, they seized His feet and worshiped Him.
Then Jesus said to them, Do not fear. Go tell your brothers that they may go into Galilee, and there they will see Me.
And they, having gone, behold, some of the guard coming into the city reported to the chief priests all things that occurred.
And being assembled with the elders, and taking counsel, they gave enough silver to the soldiers,
saying, Say that his disciples came and stole him by night, we being asleep.
And if this is heard by the governor, we will persuade him and will make you free from anxiety.
And taking the silver, they did as they were taught. And this report was spread by the Jews until today.
But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mount where Jesus appointed them.
And seeing Him, they worshiped Him. But they doubted.
And coming up Jesus talked with them, saying, All authority in Heaven and on earth was given to Me.
Going, then, disciple all nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all things, whatever I commanded you. And, behold, I am with you all the days until the completion of the age. Amen.