And certain men, who came down from Judea, taught the brothers, Unless ye will be circumcised in the custom of Moses, ye cannot be saved.
Therefore, no small dissension and debate having developed with Paul and Barnabas against them, they appointed Paul and Barnabas, and some other men from them, to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders in Jerusalem about this issue.
Indeed therefore, having been helped for the trip by the congregation, they passed through Phoenicia and Samaria, describing the conversion of the Gentiles. And they caused great joy to all the brothers.
And after arriving in Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders. And they reported as many things as God did with them.
But some of the men who believed from the sect of the Pharisees rose up, saying, It is necessary to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.
And the apostles and the elders were assembled together to see about this matter.
And when much debate occurred, Peter having risen up, he said to them, Men, brothers, ye know that from past days among us, God chose the Gentiles to hear through my mouth the word of the good news, and to believe.
And God, who knows the heart, testified to them, having given them the Holy Spirit, just as also to us.
And he made not one distinction between both us and them, having purified their hearts by faith.
Now therefore why do ye challenge God, to place a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
But through the grace of the Lord Jesus, we believe to be saved, in the same way as those men also.
And all the multitude kept silent, and they heard Barnabas and Paul describing how many signs and wonders God did among the Gentiles through them.
And after they were quiet, James answered, saying, Men, brothers, hear me.
Simeon described how God first came to help, to take from the Gentiles a people for his name.
And to this the words of the prophets agree, as it is written,
After these things I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David that has fallen. And I will rebuild the things of it that have been demolished, and I will restore it,
so that the rest of men might seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles upon whom my name is called upon them, says the Lord, who does these things.
Known to God from the age are all his works.
Therefore I judge not to trouble those from the Gentiles who are turning to God,
but to write to them, to abstain from the pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from what is strangled, and from blood.
For Moses from generations past, has from city to city those who preach him, being read in the synagogues on every sabbath.
Then it was decided by the apostles and the elders, with the whole assembly, to send men chosen from them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, namely, Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers,
after writing by their hand these things: The apostles, and the elders, and the brothers, to those down in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, to the brothers of the Gentiles, greeting.
Since we have heard that certain men who went out from us have troubled you with words, disturbing your souls, saying to be circumcised, and to keep the law, to whom we did not command,
it was decided by us, having become unanimous, to send chosen men to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have given over their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, themselves also declaring the same things by speech.
For it was decided by the Holy Spirit, and by us, to lay upon you not one greater burden than these necessary things:
to abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication, keeping yourselves from which, ye will do well. Be strong.
Indeed therefore after being dismissed, they came to Antioch, and having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter.
And after reading it, they rejoiced for the encouragement.
And Judas and Silas, being themselves also prophets, exhorted the brothers by much speech, and strengthened them.
And after spending some time, they were dismissed with peace from the brothers to the apostles.
[This verse is not in the majority of the Greek manuscripts.]
But Paul and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching good news, the word of the Lord, with many others also.
And after some days Paul said to Barnabas, After returning, surely we could help our brothers in every city in which we proclaimed the word of the Lord, how they fare.
And Barnabas wanted to take along John called Mark.
But Paul thought it not worthy to bring along this man who withdrew from them from Pamphylia, and not having gone with them to the work.
Therefore a provocation developed, so as for them to separate from each other, and Barnabas to sail for Cyprus, after taking Mark,
but Paul, having selected Silas, went forth after being delivered to the grace of God by the brothers.
And he passed through Syria and Cilicia, encouraging the congregations.