And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face against Gog in [the] land of Magog, prince of the capital of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy over him,
and say, Thus hath the Lord GOD said: Behold, I [come] unto thee, O Gog, prince of the capital of Meshech and Tubal;
and I will break thee and put hooks into thy jaws, and I will bring thee forth and all thine army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed with all sorts [of armour], [even] a great company [with] bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords:
Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them, all of them with shield and helmet:
Gomer and all his companies; the house of Togarmah that dwells to the sides of the north and all his companies [and] many peoples with thee.
Be thou prepared, and prepare for thyself, thou, and all thy company that are assembled unto thee, and be thou a guard unto them.
After many days thou shalt be visited; at the end of years thou shalt come to the land broken by the sword, gathered out of many peoples, to the mountains of Israel, which have been always waste; but she is brought forth out of the nations, and they shall dwell safely all of them.
Thou shalt ascend and come like a storm; thou shalt be like a cloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy companies and many peoples with thee.
Thus hath the Lord GOD said: It shall also come to pass in that day, that words shall rise up in thy heart, and thou shalt conceive an evil thought:
and thou shalt say, I will go up against the land of unwalled villages; I will go [against] those that are at rest, that dwell safely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars nor gates,
to take a spoil and to take a prey, to turn thine hand upon the desolate places [that are now] inhabited and upon the people [that are] gathered out of the Gentiles, who have gotten cattle and goods, that dwell in the navel of the land.
Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the young lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art thou come to take a spoil? hast thou gathered thy company to take a prey? to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take a great spoil?
Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say unto Gog: Thus hath the Lord GOD said: In that time when my people of Israel shall dwell securely, shalt thou not know [it]?
And thou shalt come from thy place out of the north parts, thou, and many peoples with thee, all of them riding upon horses, a great company, and a mighty army:
and thou shalt come up against my people of Israel as a cloud to cover the land; it shall be at the end of the days, and [I]will bring thee upon my land, that the Gentiles may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes.
Thus hath the Lord GOD said: [Art] thou not he of whom I have spoken in days past by my servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those times that I would have to bring thee upon them?
And it shall come to pass in that time when Gog shall come against the land of Israel, said the Lord GOD, [that] my fury shall rise up in my anger.
For in my jealousy [and] in the fire of my wrath I have spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking upon the land of Israel,
so that the fishes of the sea and the fowls of the heaven and the beasts of the field and every serpent that walks by dragging [itself] upon the earth, and all the men that [are] upon the face of the earth, shall shake before my presence, and the mountains shall be ruined, and the stairs shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.
And I will call for a sword against him throughout all my mountains, said the Lord GOD: each man's sword shall be against his brother.
And I will litigate against him with pestilence and with blood; and I will rain upon him and upon his companies and upon the many peoples that [are] with him, an overflowing rain, and great hailstones, fire, and brimstone.
And I will be magnified and sanctified, and I will be known in the eyes of many Gentiles, and they shall know that I [am] the LORD.: