Now Jesus having been born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying,
Where is he who is born king of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east, and have come to worship him.
And Herod the king having heard it, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
And having gathered together all the chief priests and scholars of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ is born.
And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For thus it is written through the prophet,
And thou Bethlehem, land of Judah, are in no way least among the rulers of Judah, for out of thee will come forth a man who rules, who will tend my people Israel.
Then Herod having called the wise men privately, ascertained from them what time the star appeared.
And having sent them to Bethlehem, he said, After going, search diligently about the child. And when ye find him, report to me, so that I also having come, may worship him.
And when they heard the king, they departed. And lo, the star that they saw in the east went before them until, having come, it stood over where the child was.
And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy.
And having come into the house, they saw the child with Mary his mother, and having fallen down, they worshiped him. And having opened their treasures, they brought to him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.
And divinely warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed into their own country by another way.
Now after they departed, behold, an agent of the Lord appears to Joseph in a dream, saying, After rising, take the child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and thou be there until I tell thee, for Herod is going to seek the child to destroy it.
And having awakened, he took the child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt.
And he was there until the end of Herod, so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, which says, Out of Egypt I called my Son.
Then Herod, when he saw that he was scorned by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and having sent forth, he killed all the boys in Bethlehem, and in all the borders of it, from two years old and under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men.
Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, which says,
A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children. And she did not want to be comforted, because they are not.
But when Herod perished, behold, an agent of the Lord appears in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying,
After rising, take the child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel, for those seeking the child's life have died.
And having awaken, he took the child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And divinely warned in a dream, he withdrew into the parts of Galilee.
And having come, he dwelt in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken through the prophets might be fulfilled, that he will be called a Nazarene.