And after the ceasing of the tumult, having called the disciples, and having greeted them , Paul went away to go into Macedonia.
And passing through those parts, and exhorting them with much speech, he came into Greece.
And spending three months there , a plot by the Jews being against him, being about to sail into Syria, he was of a mind to return through Macedonia.
And Sopater, a Berean; and Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia accompanied him as far as Asia.
Going forward, these awaited us in Troas.
But we sailed along after the days of Unleavened Bread from Philippi, and came to them at Troas in five days, where we stayed seven days.
And on the first of the week, the disciples having been assembled to break bread, being about to depart on the morrow, Paul reasoned to them. And he continued his speech until midnight.
And many lamps were in the upper room where they were gathered.
And a certain young man named Eutychus was sitting on the window sill, being overborne by deep sleep, Paul reasoning for a longer time, having been overborne by the sleep, he fell from the third floor down and was taken up dead.
But going down Paul fell on him, and embracing him , he said, Do not be terrified, for his soul is in him.
And going up, and breaking bread, and tasting, and conversing over a long time , until daybreak, he went out thus.
And they brought the boy alive and were comforted not a little.
But going before onto the ship, we set sail for Assos, being about to take Paul in there; for so it had been arranged, he being about to go on foot.
And when he met us in Assos, taking him up we came to Mitylene.
And sailing away from there, on the next day we arrived off Chios, and on the next we crossed to Samos. And remaining at Trogyllium, the next day we came to Miletus.
For Paul had decided to sail by Ephesus, so as it might not happen to him to spend time in Asia; for he hastened if it were possible for him to be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
And sending to Ephesus from Miletus, he called for the elders of the church.
And when they came to him, he said to them: You understand, from the first day on which I set foot in Asia, how I was with you all the time,
serving the Lord with all humility, and many tears and trials happening to me by the plots of the Jews;
as I kept nothing back of what is profitable, so as not to tell you, and to teach you publicly, and from house to house,
earnestly testifying both to Jews and to Greeks repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now, behold, being bound by the Spirit, I go to Jerusalem, not knowing the things going to meet me in it,
but that the Holy Spirit testifies city by city saying that bonds and afflictions await me.
But I make account of nothing, nor do I hold my life precious to myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, fully to testify the gospel of the grace of God.
And now, behold, I know that you all will see my face no more, among whom I went about proclaiming the kingdom of God.
Because of this I testify to you on this day that I am pure from the blood of all.
For I did not keep back from declaring to you all the counsel of God.
Then take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit placed you as overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased through His own blood.
For I know this, that after my departure grievous wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock;
and out of you yourselves will rise up men speaking perverted things, in order to draw away the disciples after themselves.
Because of this watch, remembering that I did not cease admonishing each one with tears night and day for three years.
And now, brothers, I commend you to God and to the Word of His grace, which is able to build up and to give you inheritance among all those having been sanctified.
I have desired the silver, or gold, or clothing of no one.
But you yourselves know that these hands ministered to my needs, and to those who were with me.
I showed you all things, that working in this way we ought to help those being weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
And saying these things, placing his knees, he prayed with them all.
And there was much weeping of all, and falling on the neck of Paul, they ardently kissed him,
most of all grieving for the word which he said, that they were going to see his face no more. And they went with him to the ship.