And Holofernes said to her, Woman, be of good comfort, fear not in your heart: for I never hurt any that has chosen to serve Nebuchadnezzar, the king of all the earth.
And now, if your people that dwells in the hill country had not set light by me, I would not have lifted up my spear against them: but they have done these things to themselves.
And now tell me wherefore you did flee from them, and came to us: for you are come to save yourself; be of good comfort, you shall live this night, and hereafter:
for there is none that shall wrong you, but all shall entreat you well, as is done to the servants of king Nebuchadnezzar my lord.
And Judith said to him,
Receive the words of your servant, and let your handmaid speak in your presence, and I will declare no lie to my lord this night.
And if you shall follow the words of your handmaid, God shall bring the thing to pass perfectly with you; and my lord shall not fail of his purposes.
As Nebuchadnezzar king of all the earth lives, and as his power lives, who has sent you for the preservation of every living thing, not only do men serve him by you, but also the beasts of the field and the cattle and the birds of the heaven shall live through your strength, in the time of Nebuchadnezzar and of all his house.
For we have heard of your wisdom and the subtil devices of your soul, and it has been reported in all the earth, that you only are brave in all the kingdom, and mighty in knowledge, and wonderful in feats of war.
And now as concerning the matter, which Achior did speak in your council, we have heard his words: for the men of Bethulia saved him, and he declared to them all that he had spoken before you.
Wherefore, O lord and master, neglect not his word; but lay it up in your heart, for it is true: for our race shall not be punished, neither shall the sword prevail against them, except they sin against their God.
And now, that my lord be not defeated and frustrate of his purpose, and that death may fall upon them, their sin has overtaken them, wherewith they shall provoke their God to anger, whenever they shall do wickedness.
Since their food failed them, and all their water was scant, they took counsel to lay hands upon their cattle, and determined to consume all those things, which God charged them by his laws that they should not eat:
and they are resolved to spend the first fruits of the corn, and the tenths of the wine and the oil, which they had sanctified, and reserved for the priests that stand before the face of our God in Jerusalem; the which things it is not fitting for any of the people so much as to touch with their hands.
And they have sent some to Jerusalem, because they also that dwell there have done this thing, to bring them a licence from the senate.
And it shall be, when one shall bring them word, and they shall do it, they shall be given you to be destroyed the same day.
Wherefore I your servant, knowing all this, fled away from their presence; and God sent me to work things with you, whereat all the earth shall be astonished, even as many as shall hear it.
For your servant is religious, and serves the God of heaven day and night: and now, my lord, I will abide with you, and your servant will go forth by night into the valley, and I will pray to God, and he shall tell me when they have committed their sins:
and I will come and show it also to you; and you shall go forth with all your host, and there shall be none of them that shall resist you.
And I will lead you through the midst of Judaea, until you come over against Jerusalem; and I will set your seat in the midst thereof; and you shall drive them as sheep that have no shepherd, and a dog shall not so much as open his mouth before you: for these things were told me according to my foreknowledge, and were declared to me, and I was sent to tell you.

And her words were pleasing in the sight of Holofernes and of all his servants; and they marveled at her wisdom, and said,
There is not such a woman from one end of the earth to the other, for beauty of face, and wisdom of words.
And Holofernes said to her, God did well to send you before the people, that might should be in our hands, and destruction among them that lightly regarded my lord.
And now you are beautiful in your countenance, and witty in your words: for if you shall do as you have spoken, your God shall be my God, and you shall dwell in the house of king Nebuchadnezzar, and shall be renowned through the whole earth.
