And the apostles and the brethren throughout Judaea heard that the gentiles also had received the word of God.
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, they that were of the circumcision contended with him,
saying, Thou didst go in to men uncircumcised, and didst eat with them.
But Peter rehearsed the matter to them in order from the beginning, saying,
I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, a sort of vessel descending, as it were a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners, and it came even to me;
on which fixing my eyes, I observed, and saw the four-footed beasts of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the creeping things, and the birds of the air.
And I also heard a voice saying to me, Arise, Peter; slay and eat.
But I said, Not so, Lord; for nothing common or unclean ever entered my mouth.
But a voice answered the second time out of heaven, That which God hath cleansed, call not thou common.
And this was done three times; and all were again drawn up into heaven.
And lo! immediately there stood three men at the house where I was, having been sent to me from Caesarea.
And the Spirit bade me go with them. And these six brethren also came with me, and we entered the man’s house.
And he told us how he had seen the angel in his house, standing and saying to him, Send to Joppa, and call for Simon, surnamed Peter;
who will speak to thee words by which thou shalt be saved, and all thy house.
And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, as on us at the beginning.
And I remembered the word of the Lord, that he said, John indeed baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit.
Since then God gave the like gift to them as to us, on believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that I could withstand God?
And when they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, So then to the gentiles also God hath granted repentance unto life.
Now they who were scattered abroad by the persecution that arose on account of Stephen traveled as far as Phenicia, and Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to none but Jews.
But some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Greeks, publishing the glad tidings of the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them; and a great number believed, and turned to the Lord.
But the talk concerning them came to the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem; and they sent forth Barnabas, to go as far as Antioch;
who, when he came, and saw the grace of God, rejoiced, and exhorted all to cleave to the Lord with purpose of heart;
for he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great multitude was added to the Lord.
And he went to Tarsus, to seek for Saul;
and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came to pass, that for a whole year they came together in the church, and taught a great multitude; and the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
And in those days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And one of them named Agabus stood up, and signified by the Spirit, that there was about to be a great famine over the whole world; which came to pass in the days of Claudius.
And according as any one of the disciples was prospered, they determined every one of them to send relief to the brethren who dwelt in Judaea;
which also they did, sending it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.