Thus says Jehovah, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What manner of house will ye build to me, and what place shall be my rest?
For all these things my hand has made, and all these things came to be, says Jehovah. But to this man I will look, even to him who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word.
He who slaughters an ox is as he who kills a man. He who sacrifices a lamb, as he who breaks a dog's neck. He who offers an oblation, as swine's blood. He who burns frankincense, as he who blesses an idol. Yea, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations.
I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears upon them. Because when I called, none answered. When I spoke, they did not hear. But they did that which was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I did not delight.
Hear the word of Jehovah, ye who tremble at his word: Your brothers who hate you, who cast you out for my name's sake, have said, Let Jehovah be glorified, that we may see your joy. But it is those who shall be put to shame.
A voice of tumult from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of Jehovah who renders recompense to his enemies.
Before she travailed, she brought forth. Before her pain came, she was delivered of a man-child.
Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be brought forth at once? For as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her sons.
Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth? says Jehovah. Shall I who cause to bring forth shut the womb? says thy God.
Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all ye who love her. Rejoice for joy with her, all ye who mourn over her,
that ye may nurse and be satisfied with the breasts of her consolations, that ye may get milk out, and be delighted with the abundance of her glory.
For thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream. And ye shall nurse thereof. Ye shall be borne upon the side, and shall be dandled upon the knees.
As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you, and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem.
And ye shall see, and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like the tender grass. And the hand of Jehovah shall be known toward his servants, and he will have indignation against his enemies.
For, behold, Jehovah will come with fire, and his chariots shall be like the whirlwind, to render his anger with fierceness, and his rebuke with flames of fire.
For by fire Jehovah will execute judgment, and by his sword, upon all flesh, and the slain of Jehovah shall be many.
Those who sanctify themselves and purify themselves to go to the gardens, behind one in the midst, eating swine's flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, they shall come to an end together, says Jehovah.
For I know their works and their thoughts. The time comes, that I will gather all nations and tongues, and they shall come, and shall see my glory.
And I will set a sign among them, and I will send such as escape of them to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, that draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the isles afar off, who have not heard my fame, nor have seen my glory, and they shall declare my glory among the nations.
And they shall bring all your brothers out of all the nations for an oblation to Jehovah, upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and upon dromedaries, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says Jehovah, as the sons of Israel bring their oblation in a clean vessel into the house of Jehovah.
And of them also I will take for priests and for Levites, says Jehovah.
For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, says Jehovah, so shall your seed and your name remain.
And it shall come to pass, that from one new moon to another, and from one sabbath to another, all flesh shall come to worship before me, says Jehovah.
And they shall go forth, and look upon the dead bodies of the men who have transgressed against me. For their worm shall not die, nor shall their fire be quenched, and they shall be an abhorring to all flesh.