Every, wise woman, buildeth up her house, but, a foolish one, with her own hands, would break it down.
He that walketh in his uprightness, is one who revereth Yahweh, but, he that is crooked in his way, is one who despiseth him.
In the mouth of the foolish, is a haughty rod, but, as for the lips of the wise, thou shalt give heed to them!
Without cattle, the crib is clean, but, much increase, is in the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness, will not deceive, but a false witness, uttereth deceitful things.
A scoffer seeketh wisdom, and there is none, but, knowledge, to the discerning, is easy.
Get thee from the presence of a man that is a dullard, when thou perceivest not the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of the prudent, is to understand his way, but, the folly of dullards, is a fraud.
the foolish, scoff at guilt, but, between the upright, is good pleasure.
The heart, knoweth its own bitterness, and, in its joy, no stranger shareth.
The house of the lawless, shall be destroyed, but, the tent of the upright, shall flourish.
There is a way that enticeth a man, but, at the latter end thereof, are the ways of death!
Even, in laughter, the heart may be in pain, and, the latter end of gladness, be grief.
With his own ways, shall be filled the backslider in heart, and, from himself, shall a good man [be satisfied] .
The simple, believeth every word, but, the prudent, looketh well to his going.
A wise man, feareth, and avoideth evil, but, a dullard, is haughty and confident.
The impatient, worketh folly, and, a man of wicked devices, is hated.
The simple inherit folly, but, the shrewd, crowneth himself with knowledge.
Abased are the wicked, before the good, and, the lawless, at the gates of the righteous.
Even by his neighbour, is a poor man hated, but, the lovers of the rich man, are many.
He that sheweth contempt for his neighbour, sinneth, but, he that sheweth favour to the afflicted, how happy is he!
Shall they not, become vagrants, who devise evil? but, lovingkindness and faithfulness, [be to] them who devise good.
By all labour, there will be abundance, but, the talk of the lips, tendeth only to want.
the crown of the wise, is their wealth, but, the folly of dullards, is, folly.
A deliverer of souls, is a faithful witness, but, he that uttereth falsehoods, is a fraud.
In the reverence of Yahweh, is strong security, and, his children, shall have a place of refuge.
The reverence of Yahweh, is a well-spring of life, that a man may avoid the snares of death.
In the multitude of a people, is the majesty of the king, but, in the ceasing of population, is the ruin of the prince.
One slow to anger, hath great understanding, but, the hasty in spirit, exalteth folly.
The life of the whole body, is a tranquil mind, but, a decay of the bones, is jealousy.
The oppressor of the poor, hath reproached his Maker, but he that sheweth favour to the needy, is one who, holdeth Him in honour.
By his own wickedness, shall the lawless man, be thrust down, but the righteous, seeketh refuge in his integrity.
In the heart of the intelligent, reposeth wisdom, but, in the midst of dullards, it maketh itself known.
Righteousness, exalteth a nation, but, a reproach to any people, is sin.
The good-pleasure of a king, is due to a servant who is discreet, but, his indignation, shall be against him that bringeth shame.