Better is a dry morsel, and quietness with it, than a house full of feasting with strife.
A servant who deals wisely shall have rule over a son who causes shame, and shall have part in the inheritance among the brothers.
The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, but Jehovah tries the hearts.
An evildoer gives heed to wicked lips. A liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.
He who mocks a poor man reproaches his maker. He who is glad at calamity shall not be unpunished.
Son's sons are the crown of old men, and the glory of sons are their fathers.
Excellent speech is not appropriate to a fool, much less lying lips to a prince.
A bribe is a precious stone in the eyes of him who has it; wherever it turns, it prospers.
He who covers a transgression seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates chief friends.
A rebuke enters deeper into him who has understanding than a hundred stripes into a fool.
An evil man seeks only rebellion. Therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
Let a man meet a bear robbed of her cubs, rather than a fool in his folly.
He who rewards evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
The beginning of strife is like letting out water. Therefore leave off contention, before there is quarrelling.
He who justifies a wicked man, and he who condemns a righteous man, both of them alike are an abomination to Jehovah.
Why is there a price in the hand of a fool to buy wisdom, since he has no understanding?
A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
A man void of understanding strikes hands, and becomes surety in the presence of his neighbor.
He loves transgression who loves strife. He who raises high his gate seeks destruction.
He who has a wayward heart finds no good, and he who has a perverse tongue falls into mischief.
He who begets a fool it is to his sorrow, and the father of a fool has no joy.
A cheerful heart is a good medicine, but a broken spirit dries up the bones.
A wicked man receives a bribe out of the bosom, to pervert the ways of justice.
Wisdom is before the face of him who has understanding, but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth.
A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her who bore him.
Also to punish a righteous man is not good, nor to smite nobles for uprightness.
He who spares his words has knowledge, and he who is of a cool spirit is a man of understanding.
Even a fool, when he holds his peace, is considered wise. When he shuts his lips, he is prudent.