Then, six days before the passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he had raised from the dead.
There they made him a supper, and Martha served; but Lazarus was one of those who reclined at table with him.
Then Mary took a pound of ointment of pure nard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the perfume of the ointment.
Then said one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, who was about to deliver him up:
Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred denarii, and given to the poor?
But he said this, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and had the purse, and took what was put in it.
Then Jesus said: Let her alone; she has kept this for the day of my burial.
For the poor you have always with you; but me you have not always.
Therefore, a great multitude of the Jews learned that he was there; and they came, not on account of Jesus only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead.
But the chief priests consulted that they might kill Lazarus also,
because on account of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus.
On the next day, a great multitude that had come to the feast, having heard that Jesus was coming into Jerusalem,
took branches of palm-trees, and went out to meet him, and cried: Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that comes in the name of the Lord.
And Jesus, having found a young ass, sat upon him, as it is written:
Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your king comes, sitting on the colt of an ass.
His disciples did not understand these things at first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things to him.
The multitude therefore that was with him, testified that he had called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead.
For this reason, also, the multitude met him, because they had heard that he had done this sign.
Then the Pharisees said among themselves: You see that you gain nothing. Behold, the world has gone after him.
Among those who came to worship at the feast were certain Greeks.
These then came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying: Sir, we wish to see Jesus.
Philip came and told Andrew; and then Andrew and Philip told Jesus.
But Jesus answered them, saying: The hour has come that the Son of man must be glorified.
Verily, verily I say to you, unless a grain of wheat fall into the ground and die, it remains alone; but if it die, it produces much fruit.
He that loves his life shall lose it; and he that hates his life in this world shall keep it to eternal life.
If any one serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall my servant also be. If any one serve me, him will my Father honor.
Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose came I to this hour.
Father, glorify thy name. Then there came a voice from heaven: I have glorified it, and will glorify it again.
Then the multitude that stood by and heard it, said: It thundered. Others said: An angel spoke to him.
Jesus answered and said: This voice came not for my sake, but for yours.
Now is the judgment of this world: now is the prince of this world cast out.
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself.
This he said, signifying what death he was about to die.
The multitude answered him: We have heard out of the law, that the Christ remains forever: and how say you that the Son of man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of man?
Then Jesus said to them: Yet a little while is the light with you: walk while you have the light, lest the darkness overtake you. For he that walks in the darkness knows not whither he goes.
While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become the sons of light. These things spoke Jesus, and he departed, and concealed himself from them.
But though he had done so many signs in their presence, yet they believed not on him,
that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke: Lord, who has believed our report? and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?
For this reason they could not believe, because Isaiah said again:
He has blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart, lest they should see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and should turn, and I should give them health.
These things said Isaiah, when he saw his glory, and spoke of him.
But yet, many even of the rulers believed on him; but on account of the Pharisees, they would not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue;
for they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
Jesus cried, and said: He that believes on me, believes not on me, but on him that sent me.
And he that sees me, sees him that sent me.
I have come a light into the world, that he who believes on me, may not remain in darkness.
And if any one hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not; for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.
He that rejects me, and receives not my words, has that which judges him: the word which I have spoken, that shall judge him in the last day.
For I have not spoken of myself: but the Father who sent me, he gave me commandment what I should say, and what I should speak.
And I know that his commandment is life eternal. What things I speak therefore, as the Father has said to me, so I speak.