And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things, saith he that has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars: I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest and art dead.
Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die; for I have not found thy works perfect before God.
Remember, therefore, of that which thou hast received and heard and hold to it and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come to thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee.
Thou hast a few persons also in Sardis who have not defiled their garments, and they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
He that overcomes shall likewise be clothed in white raiment, and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
He that has an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things, saith he that is Holy and True, he who has the key of David, who opens and no one shuts and shuts, and no one opens;
I know thy works; behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no one can shut it, for thou hast a little strength and hast kept my word and hast not denied my name.
Behold, I give of the synagogue of Satan, who say they are Jews and are not, but do lie; behold, I will constrain them to come and worship before thy feet and to know that I have loved thee.
Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the entre world, to try those that dwell upon the earth.
Behold, I come quickly; hold fast that which thou hast, that no one take thy crown.
He that overcomes I will make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go out no more, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God [which is] the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from [and] with my God, and [I will write upon him] my new name.
He that has an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; Behold, he who saith, Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God:
I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot; I would thou wert cold or hot.
So then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.
Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods and have need of nothing and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked,
I counsel thee to buy of me gold refined in the fire, that thou may be made rich; and clothed in white raiment, so that the shame of thy nakedness not be uncovered; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou may see.
As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten; be zealous therefore, and repent.
Behold, I stand at the door and call; if anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and will sup with him, and he with me.
To him that overcomes will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame and have sat down with my Father in his throne.
He that has an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.: