To the chief musician. A Psalm of David. O Jehovah, You have searched me and known me .
You know my sitting down, and my rising up; You understand my thought from afar off.
You sift my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
For not a word is on my tongue, but, lo, O Jehovah, You know it all.
You have closed me in behind, and in front, and Your hand is laid on me.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is set on high; I am not able to reach it.
Where shall I go from Your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from Your face?
If I go up to Heaven, You are there; if I make my bed in Sheol, behold, You are there !
If I take the wings of the morning, dwelling in the uttermost part of the sea,
even there Your hand shall lead me; and Your right hand shall seize me.
If I say: Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light around me.
Even the darkness will not be dark from You, but the night shines as the day; as is the darkness, so is the light.
For You have possessed my inward parts; You wove me in the womb of my mother.
I will thank You, for with fearful things I am wonderful; Your works are marvelous, and my soul knows it very well.
My bones were not hidden from You when I was made in secret; when I was woven in the depths of the earth.
Your eyes saw my embryo; and in Your book all my members were written the days they were formed, and not one was among them.
And how precious are Your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them!
If I should count them, they are more than the sand; when I awake I am still with You.
Surely You will slay the wicked, O God; and bloody men, depart from me.
Who will maliciously speak against You? Your enemies are lifted up with vanity.
O Jehovah, do not I hate those hating You? And am I not detesting those rising against You?
I hate them with a perfect hatred; they have become my enemies.
Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my thoughts;
and see if any wicked way is in me; and lead me in the way everlasting.