Brothers, truly my heart's desire and my supplication to God for Israel is for salvation.
For I testify to them that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.
For not understanding the righteousness of God, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, they did not submit to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is the end of law for righteousness, to every man who believes.
For Moses writes in the righteousness from the law, that the man that does them will live in them.
But the righteousness from faith says thus: Thou should not say in thy heart, Who will ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down)
or, Who will descend into the abyss? (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead).
But what does it say? The word is near thee, in thy mouth and in thy heart, that is, the word of faith that we preach:
that if thou will confess with thy mouth, the Lord Jesus, and will believe in thy heart that God raised him from the dead, thou will be saved.
For a man believes in the heart for righteousness, and he confesses with the mouth for salvation.
For the scripture says, Every man who believes in him will not be shamed.
For there is no distinction of a Jew and also of a Greek, for the same Lord is of all men, being rich toward all those who call upon him.
For every man, whoever may call upon the name of the Lord will be saved.
How then will they call on whom they have not believed? And how will they believe of whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without preaching?
And how will they preach unless they are sent? Just as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of those who proclaim good news of peace, of those who proclaim good news of good things.
But not all were obedient to the good news, for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report?
So faith is from hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
But I say, did they, no, not hear? Rather, Their voice went forth into all the earth, and their sayings to the limits of the inhabited world.
But I say, did Israel, no, not know? First Moses says, I will provoke you to jealousy toward a non-nation. Toward a foolish nation, I will make you angry.
And Isaiah is very bold and says, I was found by those not seeking me. I became manifest to those not asking for me.
But to Israel he says, The whole day I stretched forth my hands to a disobedient and rebellious people.