In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Who then is greater in the kingdom of the heavens?
And having called in a child, Jesus set it in the midst of them.
And he said, Truly I say to you, if ye are not turned, and become as children, ye will, no, not enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
He therefore who will make himself lowly as this child, this man is the greater in the kingdom of the heavens.
And whoever will receive one such child in my name receives me.
But whoever may cause one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it is advantageous for him that a donkey-powered millstone were hanged on his neck, and he were drowned in the depth of the sea.
Woe to the world because of stumbling-blocks. For it is necessary that the stumbling-blocks come, yet woe to that man through whom the stumbling-block comes.
And if thy hand or thy foot causes thee to stumble, cut them off and cast from thee. It is good for thee to enter into life crippled or maimed, than having two hands or two feet to be cast into the eternal fire.
And if thine eye causes thee to stumble, remove it and cast it from thee. It is good for thee to enter into life one-eyed, than having two eyes to be cast into the hell of fire.
See that ye not disparage one of these little ones, for I say to you, that in the heavens their agents do always behold the face of my Father in the heavens.
For the Son of man came to save that which was lost.
What does it seem to you? If it happens a hundred sheep are with some man, and one of them went astray, after going (having left the ninety-nine on the mountains), does he not seek the one going astray?
And if he happens to find it, truly I say to you, that he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that have not gone astray.
So, it is not a purpose before your Father in the heavens, that one of these little ones should perish.
But if thy brother should sin against thee, go and reprove him between thee and him alone. If he should hear thee, thou have gained thy brother.
But if he should not hear, take with thee one or two besides, so that at the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
And if he is heedless of them, speak to the church. But if he is also heedless of the church, let him be to thee as the heathen and the tax collector.
Truly I say to you, however many things ye may bind on the earth will be things that are bound in heaven, and however many things ye may loose on the earth will be things that that are loosed in heaven.
Again I say to you truly, that if two of you should agree on the earth concerning every matter, whatever they might ask, it will happen for them from my Father in the heavens.
For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
Then Peter having come to him, he said, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Until seven times?
Jesus says to him, I say to thee, not until seven times, but until seventy times seven.
Because of this the kingdom of the heavens is compared to a man, a king, who wanted to settle account with his bondmen.
And when he began to settle, one debtor of ten thousand talents was brought to him.
But of him not having to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all things, as many as he had, and payment to be made.
The bondman therefore having fallen down, worshiped him, saying, Lord, be patient toward me and I will pay thee all.
And having felt compassion, the lord of that bondman released him, and forgave him the debt.
But after going out, that bondman found one of his fellow bondmen who owed him a hundred denarii. And having grabbed him, he choked him, saying, Pay me if thou owe anything.
So his fellow bondman having fallen down at his feet, besought him, saying, Be patience toward me, and I will pay thee.
But he would not, instead, having left him, he cast him into prison until he would pay that which was owed.
And when his fellow bondmen saw the things that happened, they were extremely sorry. And after coming, they reported to their lord all the things that happened.
Then his lord having summoned him, he says to him, Thou evil bondman, I forgave thee all that debt because thou besought me.
Was it not necessary for thee also to be merciful to thy fellow bondman, as I also was merciful to thee?
And having become angry, his lord delivered him to the tormentors until he would pay all that was due to him.
So also my heavenly Father will do to you, if ye do not forgive each man his brother, from your hearts, their trespasses.