Now we the strong ought to bear the weaknesses of the frail, and not to please ourselves.
Let each of us please his neighbor for what is good toward edification.
For Christ also did not please himself, but as it is written, The reproaches of those who reproached thee fell upon me.
For as many things as were written previously were written for our learning, so that through perseverance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope.
Now may the God of perseverance and of encouragement grant you to think the same way among each other, in accord with Christ Jesus,
so that unanimously, with one mouth, ye may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore receive ye each other, just as Christ also received you for the glory of God.
And I say, Christ Jesus became a helper of men of circumcision, for the sake of God's truth (in order to confirm the promises of the fathers),
and the Gentiles, for the sake of mercy, to glorify God, as it is written, Because of this I will give thanks to thee among Gentiles, and will sing to thy name.
And again he says, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people.
And again, Praise ye the Lord all nations, and let all the peoples praise him.
And again, Isaiah says, There will be the root of Jesse, and he who arises to reign over Gentiles. In him Gentiles will hope.
Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, for ye to abound in hope in the power of the Holy Spirit.
And I also myself am persuaded about you, my brothers, that ye yourselves are also full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish others.
But I wrote more boldly to you, brothers, in part, as reminding you because of the grace that was given to me by God,
for me to be a minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, serving the good news of God like a priest, so that the offering up of the Gentiles might become acceptable, being sanctified in the Holy Spirit.
I have therefore a boast in Christ Jesus in things toward God.
For I will not dare to speak anything of which Christ did not accomplish through me for the obedience of Gentiles, by word and work,
in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of a Spirit of God, so that for me, from Jerusalem and all around as far as Illyricum, to fully preach the good news of Christ.
And thus having aspired to proclaim the good news not where Christ was already named, so that I would not build upon a foundation belonging to another man,
but, as it is written, They will see to whom it was not reported about him, and they will understand who have not heard.
Therefore also, I was delayed these many times coming to you.
But now, having no more place in these regions, and having a great desire from many years to come to you,
whenever I go to Spain I will come to you. For I hope to see you while passing through, and there to be helped on the way by you, if first I may be partly satisfied from you.
But now I am going to Jerusalem serving the sanctified.
For Macedonia and Achaia were pleased to make a certain participation for the poor of the sanctified at Jerusalem.
For they were pleased. And they are debtors of them, for if the Gentiles were partakers in their spiritual things, they are obligated also to serve them in the carnal things.
Having therefore completed this, and having sealed this fruit for them, I will depart by you to Spain.
And I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of the good news of the Christ.
Now I beseech you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive with me in prayers to God for me.
So that I may be rescued from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may become acceptable to the sanctified,
so that I may come to you in joy through the will of God, and be rested with you.
And the God of peace is with you all. Truly.