If there is a contention between men, and they come to judgment, and they have been judged, and the righteous one is declared righteous, and the wrong doer declared guilty;
then it shall be, if the wrongdoer is a son of stripes, the judge shall cause him to fall down. And one shall strike him before his face, enough for his wickedness, by number.
He may give him forty stripes ; he shall not add more, lest, if he should exceed and beat him above with many stripes, then your brother would be dishonored before your eyes.
You shall not muzzle an ox when he is treading out grain .
If brothers live together, and one of them dies, and has no son, the wife of the dead shall not go outside to a strange man; her brother-in-law shall go in to her, and take her to himself for a wife, and shall perform the duty of the levirate;
and it shall be, the first-born which she bears shall rise up for his dead brother's name, and his name shall not be wiped out of Israel.
And if the man does not desire to take his brother's wife then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate, to the elders, and say, My husband's brother is refusing to raise up a name to his brother in Israel; he has not been willing to perform the duty of my levirate.
And the elders of his city shall call for him and shall speak to him. And he shall stand and say, I have no desire to take her.
Then his brother's wife shall draw near to him before the elders, and shall take his shoe from his foot, and spit in his face, and shall answer and say, So it shall be done to the man who will not build up the house of his brother.
And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him whose shoe was taken off.
When men fight with one another, and the wife of the one shall come near to deliver her husband from his assailant's hand, and shall put out her hand and lay hold on his genitals,
then you shall cut off her hand; your eye shall not pity. You shall not have in your bag a weight and a weight, a great and a small.
You shall not have in your bag a weight and a weight, a great and a small stone.
You shall not have in your house an ephah and an ephah, a great and a small.
You shall have a perfect and just weight; you shall have a perfect and just ephah; so that they prolong your days in the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you.
For anyone doing these things is hateful to Jehovah your God, everyone acting evilly.
Remember what Amalek did to you by the way as you came forth out of Egypt;
how he met you on the way and attacked your back, all the feeble ones in the rear, when you were faint and weary; and he did not fear God.
And it shall be, when Jehovah your God gives you rest from all your enemies all around in the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you as an inheritance to possess it, you shall blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens; you shall not forget.