Come now, rich ones, weep and howl for your hardships coming on.
Your riches have rotted, and your clothes have become moth-eaten.
Your gold and silver have corroded, and their poison will be a witness against you, and will eat your flesh as fire. You heaped treasure in the last days.
Behold, the hire of the laborers reaping your fields cry out, being kept back by you. And the cries of those who have reaped have entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts.
You have lived luxuriously on the earth, and lived wantonly. You have nourished your hearts, as in a day of slaughter.
You have condemned and murdered the just; he does not resist you.
Therefore be patient, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth and has long patience for it, until he receives the early and the latter rain.
You also be patient, establish your hearts, for the coming of your Lord draws near.
Do not grudge against one another, brothers, lest you be condemned. Behold, the Judge stands before the door.
My brothers, take the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering ill, and of patience.
Behold, we count blessed those who endure. You have heard of the patience of Job, and you have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is full of pity and of tender mercy.
But before all things, my brothers, do not swear; neither by the heaven nor by the earth, nor any other oath. But let your yes be yes, and your no, no, lest you fall into condemnation.
Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Is any cheerful? Let him sing psalms.
Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
And the prayer of faith will cure the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he has committed sins, it will be forgiven him.
Confess faults to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous one avails much.
Elijah was a man of like passion as we are. And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for the time of three years and six months.
And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth caused its fruit to sprout.
Brothers, if anyone among you err from the truth, and if anyone turns him back,
know that he who turns back the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins.