Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab and every wise hearted man unto whom the LORD gave wisdom and intelligence to know how to do all the work of the service of the sanctuary, all the things that the LORD had commanded.
And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab and every wise hearted man in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom and every one whose heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it;
and they took from the presence of Moses all the offering which the sons of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it [with]. And they brought yet unto him free will offerings every morning.
So much that all the wise men that wrought all the work of the sanctuary came every man from his work which they made,
and they spoke with Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the work of the ministry which the LORD commanded to make.
And Moses commanded it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing,
for they had abundant material for all the work; more than enough to make it [with].
And everyone with a wise heart among those that wrought the work made the tabernacle of ten curtains [of] fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet, which they made of cunning work, [with] cherubim.
The length of one curtain [was] twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits; the curtains [were] all of one size.
And he coupled the five curtains one unto another; and [the other] five curtains he coupled one unto another.
And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain in the border in the coupling; likewise he made in the border of the second curtain in the coupling.
Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in the edge of the second curtain in the border in the coupling, the loops in front of the others.
And he made fifty hooks of gold and coupled the curtains one unto another with the hooks, so it became one tabernacle.
Likewise he made curtains of goats' [hair] for the tent over the tabernacle; he made eleven curtains.
The length of one curtain [was] thirty cubits, and four cubits [was] the breadth of one curtain; the eleven curtains [were] of one size.
And he coupled five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves.
And he made fifty loops upon the edge of the uttermost curtain in the coupling, and he made another fifty loops upon the edge of the other curtain in the coupling.
And he also made fifty hooks [of] brass to couple the tent together, that it might be one.
And he made a covering for the tent [of] rams' skins dyed red, and [another] covering of badgers' skins above [that].
And he made the boards for the tabernacle [of] cedar wood, standing up.
The length of each board [was] ten cubits, and the breadth one cubit and a half.
Each board had two tenons, equally distant one from another; thus did he make all the boards of the tabernacle.
He made, therefore, the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side towards the Negev.
He also made the forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards: two sockets under one board for its two tenons and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
And for the other side of the tabernacle, on the side of the Aquilon, he made twenty boards,
with their forty sockets of silver: two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
And for the westward side of the tabernacle he made six boards.
And he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides,
which were coupled beneath and likewise coupled together above to a ring; thus he did to both of them in both the corners.
They were, therefore, eight boards; and their sockets [were] sixteen sockets of silver, under every board two sockets.
And he also made bars of cedar wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the westward side.
And he made the middle bar to pass through the boards from the one end to the other.
And he covered the boards with gold and made their rings [of] gold for the bars to pass through and covered the bars with gold also.
Likewise he made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet and fine twined linen, which he made with cherubim of cunning work.
And for it he made four pillars of cedar and covered them with gold; their capitals [were of] gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver.
Likewise he made the veil for the tabernacle door [of] blue and purple and scarlet and fine twined linen, of needlework,
and its five pillars with their capitals; and he covered their heads and their fillets with gold; and their five sockets [he made] of brass.: