And Rehoboam went to Shechem,—for, to Shechem, had all Israel come, to make him king.
And it came to pass, when Jeroboam son of Nebat, who was in Egypt-whither he had fled from the face of Solomon the king—heard of it, then returned Jeroboam out of Egypt.
And they sent, and called him, so Jeroboam and all Israel came,—and spake unto Rehoboam, saying:
Thy father, made our yoke oppressive,—now, therefore, lighten thou somewhat the oppressive servitude of thy father and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, and we will serve thee.
And he said unto them, Yet three days, and then return unto me,—and the people departed.
Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men who had been standing before Solomon his father, while he yet lived, saying,—How do, ye, counsel to return answer unto this people?
And they spake unto him saying, If thou wilt be kind to this people, and please them, and speak unto them kind words, then will they be thy servants, all the days.
But he declined the counsel of the old men, which they gave him,—and took counsel with the young men who had grown up with him, who were standing before him.
And he said unto them, What do, ye, counsel that we should return as answer, unto this people,—who have spoken unto me saying, Lighten thou somewhat the yoke, which thy father put upon us?
Then spake with him the young men who had grown up with him, saying, Thus, shalt thou speak unto the people who have spoken unto thee saying, Thy father, made our yoke heavy, Thou, therefore, lighten somewhat our yoke,—Thus, shalt thou say unto them, My little finger, is thicker than my father’s loins;
Now, therefore, my father, laid upon you a heavy yoke, but, I, will add to your yoke,—My father, chastised you with whips, but, I, with scorpions,
So Jeroboam and all the people came unto Rehoboam, on the third day,—as the king spake, saying, Return unto me on the third day.
And the king answered them harshly,—and King Rehoboam declined the counsel of the old men;
and spake unto them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, My father, made your yoke heavy, but, I, will add thereunto,—My father, chastised you with whips, But, I, with scorpions.
So the king hearkened not unto the people,—for there had come to be a turn from God, to the end Yahweh might establish his word which he had spoken by means of Ahijah the Shilonite, unto Jeroboam, son of Nebat.
And, when, all Israel, [saw] that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered the king, saying—What portion have, we, in David, or inheritance in the son of Jesse? Every man, to your homes, O Israel! Now, see to thine own house, O David! And all Israel departed to their homes.
But, as for the sons of Israel who were dwelling in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was over the tribute, and the sons of Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. So, King Rehoboam, hasted to mount his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.
Thus Israel rebelled against the house of David—unto this day.