False balances are hateful to Jehovah, but a perfect stone His delight.
Pride comes, then shame comes, but with the lowly is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright guides them, but the perversity of traitors will devastate them.
Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
The righteousness of the perfect shall make his way right, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but traitors shall be taken in their lust.
In the death of a wicked man, his expectation shall perish, and the hope of the unjust shall be lost.
The righteous is delivered from distress, and the wicked comes in his place.
The ungodly is corrupting his neighbor with his mouth, but the just is delivered by knowledge.
When the righteous prospers, the city rejoices; and at the wicked's perishing is singing.
A city is lifted up by the blessing of the upright, but by the wicked's mouth it is overthrown.
One despising his friend lacks heart, but an understanding man remains silent.
One going with slander is a revealer of secrets, but the faithful of spirit keeps a matter hidden.
Without guidance the people fall, but safety is in a great counselor.
One suffers evil when he is surety for a stranger, but one hating strikers of hands is safe.
A gracious woman holds to honor, and terrifying men hold to riches.
A merciful man does good to his own soul, but the cruel troubles his own flesh.
The wicked makes a deceitful wage, but one sowing righteousness has a reward of truth.
So righteousness leads to life, but one pursuing evil, to his death.
Hateful to Jehovah are the perverse hearted, but His delight is the upright in way.
Though hand join to hand, the evil shall not be innocent, but the righteous seed escapes.
As a ring of gold in a swine's snout, so is a woman who is beautiful, yet turning aside discretion.
The desire of the righteous is only good, the hope of the wicked is wrath.
There is one who scatters yet increases more; but a withholder of just due comes only to poverty.
The blessed soul will be made fat; he who waters will also drink fully.
One holding back grain, the people curse him; but a blessing is to the head of one selling grain.
He who early is seeking good seeks favor; but one pursuing evil, it shall come to him.
One trusting in his riches, he shall fall; but like a green leaf the righteous shall sprout.
One troubling his house inherits the wind; and the fool is servant to the wise of heart.
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he who takes souls is wise.
Behold, the righteous shall be rewarded in the earth; much more the wicked and the sinner.