Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged Him .
And having plaited a wreath out of thorns, the soldiers put it on His head. And they threw a purple mantle around Him,
and said, Hail, king of the Jews! And they gave Him blows with the palm.
Then Pilate went outside again and said to them, Behold, I bring Him out to you that you may know that I do not find even one crime in Him!
Then Jesus came outside, wearing the thorny wreath and the purple mantle. And he said to them, Behold, the Man!
Then when the chief priests and the under-officers saw Him, they cried out, saying, Crucify! Crucify! Pilate said to them, You take him and crucify him , for I do not find one crime in him!
Then the Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to our Law he ought to die because he made himself Son of God!
Then when Pilate heard this word, he was more afraid.
And he entered into the praetorium again and said to Jesus, From where are you? But Jesus did not give him an answer.
So Pilate said to Him, Do you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to crucify you, and I have authority to release you?
Jesus answered, You would have no authority against Me, not any, if it were not given to you from above. Because of this, the one delivering Me to you has a greater sin.
From this time , Pilate sought to release Him. But the Jews cried out, saying, If you release this one, you are not a friend of Caesar. Everyone making himself a king speaks against Caesar.
Then hearing this word, Pilate led Jesus out. And he sat down on the judgment seat, at a place called The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
And it was the Preparation of the Passover, and about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold, your king!
But they cried out, Away, Away! Crucify him! Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king except Caesar.
Therefore, then, he delivered Him up to them, that He might be crucified. And they took Jesus and led Him away.
And He went out bearing His cross, to the place called Of a Skull (which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha),
where they crucified Him, and two others with Him, on this side and on that side, and Jesus in the middle.
And Pilate also wrote a title and put it on the cross. And having been written, it was: JESUS THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Therefore, many of the Jews read this title, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it had been written in Hebrew, in Greek, in Latin.
Then the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write, The king of the Jews, but that one said, I am king of the Jews.
Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
Then when they crucified Jesus, the soldiers took His garments and made four parts, a part to each soldier, also the tunic. And the tunic was seamless, woven from the top throughout.
Then they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but let us cast lots about it, whose it will be (that the Scripture might be fulfilled which said, "They divided My garments among them," and "they threw a lot for My garment." Then indeed the soldiers did these things. LXX-Psa. 21:19; MT-Psa. 22:18 )
And His mother, and His mother's sister Mary, the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene stood by the cross of Jesus.
Then seeing His mother, and the disciple whom He loved standing by, Jesus said to His mother, Woman, behold your son!
Then He said to the disciple, Behold, your mother! And from that hour, the disciple took her into his own home .
After this, knowing that all things have now been finished that the Scripture be completed, Jesus said, I thirst.
Then a vessel full of vinegar was set, and having filled a sponge with vinegar, and putting hyssop around, they brought it to His mouth. Psa. 69:21
Then when Jesus took the vinegar, He said, It has been finished. And bowing His head, He delivered up the spirit.
Then, since it was Preparation, that the bodies not remain on the cross on the sabbath, for great was the day of that sabbath, the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and they be taken away.
Then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other crucified with Him.
But on coming to Jesus, when they saw He was dead already, they did not break His legs.
But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a lance, and at once blood and water came out.
And the one seeing has borne witness and his witness is true; and that one knows that he speaks truly, that you may believe.
For these things happened that the Scripture might be fulfilled, "Not a bone of Him shall be broken." Ex. 12:46; Psa. 34:20
And again, a different Scripture says, "They shall look at Him whom they have pierced." Zech. 12:10
And after these things, Joseph from Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but concealed because of fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave permission. Then he came and took the body of Jesus.
And Nicodemus also came, the one coming at first to Jesus by night, bearing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred Roman pounds.
Then they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linens, with the spices, as is usual with the Jews in burying.
And there was a garden in the place where He was crucified, and a new tomb in the garden, in which no one yet ever had been placed.
There, then, because of the Preparation of the Jews, because the tomb was near, they put Jesus.