And He began to speak to them in parables: "A man planted a vineyard, and set a fence around it ," and dug a winevat, "and built a tower." And he rented it to vinedressers and went away. Isa. 5:1, 2
And at the season, he sent a slave to the vinedressers, that he might receive from the vinedressers the fruit of the vineyard.
But taking him, they beat him , and sent him away empty.
And again he sent to them another slave; stoning that one, they struck him in the head and sent him away, insulting him.
And again, he sent another, and they killed that one; also many others, indeed beating these, and killing these.
Yet having one son, his own beloved, then he sent him to them also, last of all , saying, They will have respect for my son.
But these vinedressers said to themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him and the inheritance will be ours.
And taking him , they killed him and threw him outside the vineyard.
What, then, will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and will destroy the vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others.
Have you not even read this Scripture: The "Stone which the builders rejected, this one became head of the corner;
this came about from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes"? Psa. 118:22, 23
And they sought to seize Him, yet feared the crowd. For they knew that He spoke the parable against them. And leaving Him, they went away.
And they sent some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians to Him, that they might catch Him in a word.
And coming, they said to Him, Teacher, we know that you are true, and there is not a care to you about anyone, for you do not look to the face of men, but teach on the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
Should we give, or should we not give? But knowing their hypocrisy, He said to them, Why do you tempt Me? Bring Me a denarius that I may see.
And they brought one . And He said to them, Whose image and inscription is this? And they said to Him, Caesar's.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Render the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God. And they marveled at Him.
And Sadducees came to Him, who say there is no resurrection. And they questioned Him, saying,
Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a brother of anyone should die and leave behind a wife, and leave no children, that his brother should take his wife and raise up seed to his brother. Deut. 25:5
Then there were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and dying, he left no seed.
And the second took her, and died, and neither did he leave seed; and the third likewise.
And all seven took her and left no seed. Last of all the woman also died.
Then in the resurrection, when they rise again, of which of them will she be the wife? For the seven had her as wife.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Do you not err because of this, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of God?
For when they rise again from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as angels in Heaven.
But concerning the dead, that they are raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, as God spoke to him at the Bush, saying, "I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob"? Ex. 3:6
He is not the God of the dead, but God of the living. Therefore, you greatly err.
And coming up, one of the scribes, hearing them arguing, knowing that He answered them well, he questioned Him, What is the first commandment of all?
And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is : "Hear, Israel. The Lord our God is one Lord,
and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul" and with all your mind, "and with all your strength." This is the first commandment. Deut. 6:4, 5
And the second is like this, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." There is not another commandment greater than these. Lev. 19:18
And the scribe said to Him, You say well, Teacher. You have spoken according to truth, "that God is one," Deut. 6:4, 5 and "there is no other besides Him;" Deut. 4:35
"and to love Him from all the heart", and from all the understanding, "and from all the soul, and from all the strength;" Deut. 6:4, 5 and "to love one's neighbor as oneself" Lev. 19:18 is more than all the burnt offerings and the sacrifices.
And seeing that he answered intelligently, Jesus said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one dared to question Him any more.
And teaching in the temple, answering Jesus said, How do the scribes say that Christ is the son of David?
For David himself said by the Holy Spirit, "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit off My right until I place Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet." LXX-Psa. 109:1; MT-Psa. 110:1
Then David himself calls Him Lord. And from where is He his son? And the large crowd heard Him gladly.
And He said to them in His teaching, Be careful of the scribes, those desiring to walk about in robes, and greetings in the markets,
and chief seats in the synagogues, and chief couches in the dinners,
those devouring the houses of widows, and for a pretense praying at length. These will receive more abundant judgment.
And sitting down opposite the treasury, Jesus watched how the crowd threw copper coins into the treasury. And many rich ones threw in much.
And coming, one poor widow threw in two lepta (which is a kodrantes).
And having called His disciples near, He said to them, Truly I say to you that this poor widow has thrown in more than all of those casting into the treasury.
For all threw in out of that abounding to them, but she out of her poverty threw in all, as much as she had, her whole livelihood.