And it shall come to pass, if thou shall hearken diligently to the voice of Jehovah thy God, to observe to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that Jehovah thy God will set thee on high above all the nations of the earth,
and all these blessings shall come upon thee, and overtake thee, if thou shall hearken to the voice of Jehovah thy God:
Blessed shall thou be in the city, and blessed shall thou be in the field.
Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy beasts, the increase of thy cattle, and the young of thy flock.
Blessed shall be thy basket and thy kneading-trough.
Blessed shall thou be when thou come in, and blessed shall thou be when thou go out.
Jehovah will cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thee. They shall come out against thee one way, and shall flee before thee seven ways.
Jehovah will command the blessing upon thee in thy barns, and in all that thou put thy hand to. And he will bless thee in the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee.
Jehovah will establish thee for a holy people to himself, as he has sworn to thee, if thou shall keep the commandments of Jehovah thy God, and walk in his ways.
And all the peoples of the earth shall see that thou are called by the name of Jehovah, and they shall be afraid of thee.
And Jehovah will make thee plenteous for good, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy ground, in the land which Jehovah swore to thy fathers to give thee.
Jehovah will open to thee his good treasure the heavens, to give the rain of thy land in its season, and to bless all the work of thy hand. And thou shall lend to many nations, and thou shall not borrow.
And Jehovah will make thee the head, and not the tail. And thou shall only be above, and thou shall not be beneath, if thou shall hearken to the commandments of Jehovah thy God, which I command thee this day, to observe and to do,
and shall not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
But it shall come to pass, if thou will not hearken to the voice of Jehovah thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command thee this day, that all these curses shall come upon thee, and overtake thee:
Cursed shall thou be in the city, and cursed shall thou be in the field.
Cursed shall be thy basket and thy kneading-trough.
Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, the increase of thy cattle, and the young of thy flock.
Cursed shall thou be when thou come in, and cursed shall thou be when thou go out.
Jehovah will send upon thee cursing, discomfiture, and rebuke, in all that thou put thy hand to do, until thou be destroyed, and until thou perish quickly, because of the evil of thy doings, by which thou have forsaken me.
Jehovah will make the pestilence cling to thee, until he has consumed thee from off the land, where thou go in to possess it.
Jehovah will smite thee with consumption, and with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the sword, and with blight, and with mildew. And they shall pursue thee until thou perish.
And thy sky that is over thy head shall be brass, and the earth that is under thee shall be iron.
Jehovah will make the rain of thy land powder and dust. From the sky it shall come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed.
Jehovah will cause thee to be smitten before thine enemies. Thou shall go out one way against them, and shall flee seven ways before them. And thou shall be tossed to and fro among all the kingdoms of the earth.
And thy dead body shall be food to all birds of the sky, and to the beasts of the earth, and there shall be none to frighten them away.
Jehovah will smite thee with the boil of Egypt, and with the emerods, and with the scurvy, and with the itch, of which thou cannot be healed.
Jehovah will smite thee with madness, and with blindness, and with confusion of mind,
and thou shall grope at noonday, as the blind man gropes in darkness. And thou shall not prosper in thy ways. And thou shall only be oppressed and robbed always, and there shall be none to save thee.
Thou shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her. Thou shall build a house, and thou shall not dwell in it. Thou shall plant a vineyard, and shall not use the fruit of it.
Thine ox shall be slain before thine eyes, and thou shall not eat of it. Thy donkey shall be violently taken away from before thy face, and shall not be restored to thee. Thy sheep shall be given to thine enemies, and thou shall have none to save thee.
Thy sons and thy daughters shall be given to another people. And thine eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day, and there shall be nothing in the power of thy hand.
The fruit of thy ground, and all thy labors, shall a nation eat up which thou know not. And thou shall only be oppressed and crushed always,
so that thou shall be mad because of the sight of thine eyes which thou shall see.
Jehovah will smite thee in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore boil, of which thou cannot be healed, from the sole of thy foot to the crown of thy head.
Jehovah will bring thee, and thy king whom thou shall set over thee, to a nation that thou have not known, thou nor thy fathers. And there thou shall serve other gods, wood and stone.
And thou shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples where Jehovah shall lead thee away.
Thou shall carry much seed out into the field, and shall gather little in, for the locust shall consume it.
Thou shall plant vineyards and dress them, but thou shall neither drink of the wine, nor gather, for the worm shall eat them.
Thou shall have olive trees throughout all thy borders, but thou shall not anoint thyself with the oil, for thine olive shall drop off.
Thou shall beget sons and daughters, but they shall not be thine, for they shall go into captivity.
All thy trees and the fruit of thy ground shall the locust possess.
The sojourner who is in the midst of thee shall mount up above thee higher and higher, and thou shall come down lower and lower.
He shall lend to thee, and thou shall not lend to him. He shall be the head, and thou shall be the tail.
And all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall pursue thee, and overtake thee, till thou be destroyed, because thou hearkened not to the voice of Jehovah thy God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded thee,
and they shall be upon thee for a sign and for a wonder, and upon thy seed forever.
Because thou served not Jehovah thy God with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, by reason of the abundance of all things,
therefore thou shall serve thine enemies that Jehovah shall send against thee, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things. And he shall put a yoke of iron upon thy neck, until he has destroyed thee.
Jehovah will bring a nation against thee from far, from the end of the earth, as the eagle flies, a nation whose tongue thou shall not understand,
a nation of fierce countenance, that shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young,
and shall eat the fruit of thy cattle, and the fruit of thy ground, until thou be destroyed, that also shall not leave thee grain, new wine, or oil, the increase of thy cattle, or the young of thy flock, until they have caused thee to perish.
And they shall besiege thee in all thy gates, until thy high and fortified walls come down, in which thou trusted, throughout all thy land. And they shall besiege thee in all thy gates throughout all thy land, which Jehovah thy God has given thee.
And thou shall eat the fruit of thine own body, the flesh of thy sons and of thy daughters, whom Jehovah thy God has given thee, in the siege and in the distress with which thine enemies shall distress thee.
The man who is tender among you, and very delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his sons whom he has remaining,
so that he will not give to any of them of the flesh of his sons whom he shall eat, because he has nothing left to him, in the siege and in the distress with which thine enemy shall distress thee in all thy gates.
The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not adventure to set the sole of her foot upon the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter,
and toward her young one who comes out from between her feet, and toward her sons whom she shall bear, for she shall eat them secretly for want of all things, in the siege and in the distress with which thine enemy shall distress thee in thy gates.
If thou will not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that thou may fear this glorious and fearful name, JEHOVAH THY GOD,
then Jehovah will make thy calamities extraordinary, and the calamities of thy seed, even great calamities and of long continuance, and severe sicknesses and of long continuance.
And he will bring upon thee again all the diseases of Egypt, which thou were afraid of, and they shall cling to thee.
Also every sickness, and every calamity, which is not written in the book of this law, them Jehovah will bring upon thee, until thou be destroyed.
And ye shall be left few in number, whereas ye were as the stars of heaven for multitude, because thou did not hearken to the voice of Jehovah thy God.
And it shall come to pass, that, as Jehovah rejoiced over you to do you good, and to multiply you, so Jehovah will rejoice over you to cause you to perish, and to destroy you. And ye shall be plucked from off the land where thou go in to possess it.
And Jehovah will scatter thee among all peoples, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth. And there thou shall serve other gods, which thou have not known, thou nor thy fathers, even wood and stone.
And among these nations thou shall find no ease, and there shall be no rest for the sole of thy foot, but Jehovah will give thee there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and pining of soul.
And thy life shall hang in doubt before thee, and thou shall fear night and day, and shall have no assurance of thy life.
In the morning thou shall say, Would it were evening! and at evening thou shall say, Would it were morning! for the fear of thy heart which thou shall fear, and for the sight of thine eyes which thou shall see.
And Jehovah will bring thee into Egypt again with ships, by the way of which I said to thee, Thou shall see it no more again. And there ye shall sell yourselves to your enemies for bondmen and for bondwomen, and no man shall buy you.