Behold, what manner of love (o. agape) the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knows us not, because it knew him not.
Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is.
And every man that has this hope in him purifies himself, even as he is pure.
Whosoever commits sin trangresses also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law.
And all of you know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin.
Whosoever abides in him sins not: whosoever sins has not seen him, neither known him.
Little children, let no man deceive you: he that does righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
He that commits sin is of the devil; for the devil sins from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.
Whosoever is born of God does not commit sin; for his seed remains in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.
In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever does not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loves not his brother.
For this is the message that all of you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous.
Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you.
We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loves not his brother abides in death.
Whosoever hates his brother is a murderer: and all of you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
Hereby perceive we the love (o. agape) of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
But whoso has this world's good, and sees his brother have need, and shuts up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwells the love (o. agape) of God in him?
My little children, let us not love in word, (o. logos) neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.
And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him.
For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God.
And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.
And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment.
And he that keeps his commandments dwells in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit (o. pneuma) which he has given us.