And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John his brother, and leadeth them up into a high mountain apart.
And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone as the sun; and his garments became white as the light.
And lo! there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, talking with him.
And Peter answering said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here; if thou wilt, I will make here three tents; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
While he was yet speaking, lo! a bright cloud overshadowed them; and lo! a voice out of the cloud, saying, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased; hear him."
And the disciples hearing it, fell on their face, and were exceedingly afraid.
And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid.
And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only.
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, Tell what hath been seen to no one, until the Son of man hath risen from the dead.
And the disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the scribes that Elijah must first come?
And he answering said, Elijah indeed cometh, and will restore all things.
But I say to you, that Elijah hath already come, and they knew him not, but did with him whatever they would. So also is the Son of man to suffer by them.
Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John the Baptist.
And when they had come to the multitude, there came to him a man, kneeling down to him, and saying,
Lord, have compassion on my son; for he is a lunatic, and is sorely afflicted; for he often falleth into the fire, and often into the water.
And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.
Then Jesus answering said, Unbelieving and perverse generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him hither to me.
And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon went out of him; and the boy was cured from that hour.
Then the disciples came to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast it out?
And he said to them, Because of your want of faith. For truly do I say to you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard, ye shall say to this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place, and it will remove; and nothing will be impossible to you.

And while they were together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men,
and they will put him to death; and on the third day he will rise again. And they were greatly grieved.
And when they had come to Capernaum, those who received the half-shekel came to Peter, and said, Doth not your teacher pay the half-shekel?
He saith, Yes. And when he had come into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? Of whom do the kings of the earth take customs or taxes? Of their own sons, or of strangers?
And when he said, Of strangers, Jesus said to him, Then are the sons free.
But that we may not give them offence, go to the lake, and cast a hook, and take the fish that first cometh up; and on opening his mouth, thou wilt find a shekel; take that, and give it to them for me and thee.