And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bore Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.
And she again bore his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering to the LORD.
And Abel, he also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect to Abel and to his offering:
But to Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
And the LORD said to Cain, Why are you wroth? and why is your countenance fallen?
If you do well, shall you not be accepted? and if you do not well, sin lies at the door. And to you shall be his desire, and you shall rule over him.
And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.   ¶
And the LORD said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? And he said, I know not: Am I my brother’s keeper?
And he said, What have you done? the voice of your brother’s blood cries to me from the ground.
And now are you cursed from the earth, which has opened her mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand;
When you till the ground, it shall not from now on yield to you her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shall you be in the earth.
And Cain said to the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear.
Behold, you have driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from your face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that finds me shall slay me.
And the LORD said to him, Therefore whoever slays Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark on Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.   ¶
And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelled in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.
And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bore Enoch: and he built a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.
And to Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.   ¶
And Lamech took to him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
And Adah bore Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle.
And his brother’s name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ.
And Zillah, she also bore Tubalcain, an instructor of every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.
And Lamech said to his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; you wives of Lamech, listen to my speech: for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.
If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.   ¶
And Adam knew his wife again; and she bore a son, and called his name Seth: For God, said she, has appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.
And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call on the name of the LORD.