I put my trust in You, O Jehovah, let me not be put to shame forever.
In Your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; bow down Your ear to me and save me.
Be a rock of strength for me, to which I may always go; You have given a command to save me; for You are my rock and my fortress.
O my God, deliver me out of the hand of the wicked, and out of the palm of the unjust and the ruthless.
For You are my hope, O Lord Jehovah, my trust from my youth.
I have rested on You from the belly; You are He who took me out of my mother's womb; my praise shall be always of You.
I am like a wonder to many, but You are my strong tower.
My mouth is filled with Your praise, with your glory all the day long.
Do not cast me off now at the time of my old age. Do not forsake me when my strength fails.
For my enemies speak against me; and those who lurk for my soul plot together.
And they say, God has forsaken him; pursue him and take him, for there is no one to deliver.
O God, do not be far from me; Oh my God come quickly to help me.
Let them be ashamed; let those who are enemies of my soul be consumed; let them be covered with reproach, and let those seeking evil for me be dishonored;
and I will hope without ceasing, and I will add more on all Your praise.
My mouth shall tell of Your righteousness and Your salvation all the day; for I do not know the numbers.
I will come in the strength of the lord Jehovah; I will speak of Your righteousness, of Yours alone.
O God, You have taught me from my youth; and until now I have declared Your wonders.
And now that I am old and grayheaded, O God, do not leave me until I have manifested Your strength to the generation, Your power to everyone who is to come.
And, Your righteousness, O God, is to the heights, You who have done great things. O God, who is like You?
Who has shown me great and evil distresses; You will turn me ; You will make me live; and You will bring me up from the depths of the earth.
You will multiply my greatness and surround and comfort me.
I will also thank You with a harp, O my God; I will sing Your truth; I will sing to You with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel.
My lips shall shout for joy, for I will sing praise to You; also my soul which you have redeemed.
And my tongue shall muse on Your righteousness all the day; because those seeking my evil are disgraced; they are put to shame.