And the Angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to The Place of Weeping, and said, I caused you to come up out of Egypt and brought you into the land which I had sworn to your fathers, and said, I will not break My covenant with you forever.
And you, you shall cut no covenant with the inhabitants of this land. You shall break down their altars. Yet you have not listened to My voice. What is this you have done?
And I also have said, I shall not expel them before you, and they shall become adversaries to you; and their gods shall become a snare to you.
And it happened when the Angel of Jehovah spoke these words to all the sons of Israel, the people lifted up their voice and wept.
And they called the name of that place Bochim: and sacrificied to Jehovah there.
And Joshua sent the people away, and the sons of Israel each went to his inheritance, to possess the land.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who prolonged their days after Joshua, who saw all the great work of Jehovah which He had done for Israel.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a son of a hundred and ten years.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance, in Timnath-heres, in the hills of Ephraim on the north of Mount Gaash.
And also all that generation was gathered to their fathers, and another generation arose after them who had not known Jehovah, nor yet the works which He had done for Israel.
And the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baals.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out from the land of Egypt. And they went after other gods of the gods of the peoples who were around them, and bowed themselves to them, and angered Jehovah.
Yea, they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and the Ashtoreths.
And the anger of Jehovah glowed against Israel, and He gave them into the hand of plunderers; and they plundered them. And He sold them into the hand of their enemies all around, and they were not able to stand before their enemies any longer.
Wherever they went, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had spoken, and as Jehovah had sworn to them. And it distressed them very much.
And Jehovah raised up judges, and they saved them from the hand of their plunderers.
But they also did not listen to their judges, but went whoring after other gods, and bowed themselves to them. They quickly turned aside out of the way in which their fathers walked to obey the commands of Jehovah. They did not do so.
And when Jehovah raised up judges to them, then Jehovah was with the judge, and rescued them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge. For Jehovah took pity because of their groaning before their oppressors, and those that crushed them.
And at the death of the judge, it happened that they would turn and act more corruptly than their fathers, to go after other gods, to serve them, and to bow themselves to them. And they did not fall away from their own doings, and from their stubborn way.
And the anger of Jehovah glowed against Israel. And He said, Because this nation has transgressed My covenant which I commanded their fathers, and has not listened to My voice,
I also from now on will not expel any from before them of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
so that by them I may test Israel, whether they are keeping the way of Jehovah, to go in it, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And Jehovah left those nations without expelling them quickly. And He did not deliver them into the hand of Joshua.