And Elihu continued, and said:
Wait for me a little, and I will show you that there are yet words for God.
I will bring my knowledge from afar, and I will credit righteousness to my Maker.
For truly my words are not false; the perfect One in knowledge is with you.
Behold, God is mighty, and He does not despise. He is mighty in strength of heart.
He will not keep the wicked alive, but He gives justice to the afflicted.
He does not withdraw His eyes from the righteous, but they are like kings on the throne; yea, He causes them to sit forever, and they are very high.
And if they are bound in chains, or caught in cords of affliction,
then He declares to them their work and their transgressions, that they have behaved proudly.
He also opens their ear to instruction, and commands that they turn back from iniquity.
If they hear and serve, they shall spend their days in good, and their years in pleasures.
But if they do not obey, they shall pass away by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.
But the ungodly in heart heap up anger; they cry not when He has bound them.
Their soul dies in youth, and their life ends among the sodomites.
He delivers the afflicted by his affliction, and He opens their ears by oppression.
And He also would have lured you from the mouth of distress to a wide place not cramped under; and the setting of your table would be full of fatness.
But you have filled up the judgment of the wicked; judgment and justice take hold.
For beware wrath, that He not lure you with His scorn; then a great ransom cannot turn you aside.
If your cry for help is set in order, then it will not be in distress, but with all the strong forces?
Do not desire the night, when people are cut off in their place.
Beware! Do not turn to iniquity; for you have chosen this rather than affliction.
Behold, God is exalted in His power. Who is a teacher like Him?
Who has appointed Him His way; or who can say, You have done wrong?
Remember that you magnify His work, of which men have sung;
every man has seen it; man beholds it from afar.
Behold, God is great, and we do not know; the number of His years cannot be searched out.
For He draws up the drops of water; they distill rain into mist.
which the clouds drip down, and drop upon men plentifully.
Also can any understand the spreading of the clouds, the crashing of His canopy?
Behold, He spreads His light about Him, and He covers the bottom of the sea.
For He judges the people by them; He gives plenty of food.
He covers His hands with the lightning, and commands it to strike the mark;
its thunder tells about Him; also the cattle, as to what is coming.