And the word of Yahweh came unto Jeremiah, the second time, when he was yet imprisoned in the guard-court, saying:
Thus, saith Yahweh, who doeth it,—Yahweh, who fashioneth it to establish it, Yahweh, is his name:
Call unto me that I may answer thee,—and tell thee things great and inaccessible, which thou hast not known.
For, Thus, saith Yahweh God of Israel, Concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah,—which are thrown down against the earthworks and against the sword:
In entering to fight with the Chaldeans, it is to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have smitten in mine anger and in mine indignation,—and because of whom I have hidden my face from this city,—by reason of all their wickedness.
Behold me! laying upon her a bandage of healing, so will I heal them,—And will reveal to them abundance of prosperity and truth;
And I will bring back Them of the captivity of Judah, and Them of the captivity of Israel,—And I will build them, as at the first;
And I will purify them, from all their iniquity wherewith they have sinned against me,—And I will grant pardon for all their iniquities Wherewith they have sinned against me, and Wherewith they have transgressed against me;
So shall she become to me—A name of joy, A praise and An adorning, To all the nations of the earth,—Who will hear all the good which I am doing them, And will dread and be deeply moved over all the good and over all the prosperity which I am causing her.
Thus, saith Yahweh—Again, shall be heard in this place, as to which ye are saying, Deserted, it is without man or beast, In the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, Which are desolate without man or inhabitant or beast
The voice of joy, and the voice of gladness The voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, The voice of them who are saying, Praise ye Yahweh of hosts, For good is Yahweh For age-abiding is his lovingkindness, The voice of them who are bringing a thank-offering into the house of Yahweh,—For I will bring back the captives of the land, as at the first, Saith Yahweh.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, Again, shall there be in this place—Which is deserted without man or even beast—And all the cities thereof,—The home of shepherds, causing flocks to lie down.
In the cities of the hill country, In the cities of the lowland, and In the cities of the South, and In the land of Benjamin, and In the places round about Jerusalem, and In the cities of Judah, Again shall the flock pass over the hands of the numberer, Saith Yahweh.
Lo! days are coming, Declareth Yahweh,—when I will establish my good word, which I have spoken—As to the house of Israel And concerning the house of Judah:
In those days and at that time, will I cause to bud unto David A Bud of righteousness,—And he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land:
In those days, Judah shall be saved, and, Jerusalem abide, securely,—And, this, is that which shall be proclaimed to her—Yahweh, our righteousness!
For, Thus, saith Yahweh,—There shall not be wanting to David—A man to sit upon the throne of the house of Israel;
Nor to the priests the Levites, shall there be wanting—A man, before me, To offer an ascending-sacrifice, or To make a perfume with a gift, or To offer a [peace-] offering, all the days!
And the word of Yahweh came unto Jeremiah saying:
Thus, saith Yahweh, If ye can break, My covenant of the day, and My covenant of the night, That there be not day and night in their season,
My covenant also, may be broken With David my servant, that he shall not have a son, to reign upon his throne,—And with the Levites the priests, mine attendants:
As, the host of the heavens, cannot be recorded, Nor the sand of the sea, be measured, So, will I multiply, The seed of David my servant, And the Levites who attend upon me.
And the word of Yahweh came unto Jeremiah, saying:
Hast thou not observed what, this people, have spoken saying, The two families which Yahweh did choose, he hath even cast them off? And so, my people, they despise, as though they could not again become a nation in their sight!
Thus, saith Yahweh, If my covenant of day and night, the ordinances of the heavens and the earth, I did not appoint,
The seed of Jacob also and of David my servant, might I cast off so as not to take of his seed as rulers unto the seed of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob,—For I will bring back them of their captivity, and will have compassion upon them.