AT that time Jesus walked through corn-fields on a sabbath-day; and his disciples were hungry, and began to pluck the ears of corn, and to eat.
But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Behold, thy disciples do a thing that it is not lawful to do on the sabbath.
And he said unto them, Have ye not read what David did, when he was hungry, and they who were with him?
how they went into the house of God, and did eat the loaves of shew-bread, of which it was not lawful for him or those who were with him to eat, but for the priests alone?
Or have ye not read in the law, that on the sabbaths the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are not culpable?
Now I tell you, That one greater than the temple is here.
But if ye had known what that meant, I desire mercy and not sacrifice; ye would not have condemned the innocent.
For the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
And going on from thence, he came into their synagogue;
and, behold a man was there who had a withered hand. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on sabbath days? that they might accuse him.
Then he said to them; What man of you is there who hath one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath, doth he not lay hold on him, and lift him out?
Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do good on the sabbath days.
Then saith he to the man, Stretch out thy hand; and he stretched it out, and it was restored, sound as the other.
Then the Pharisees went out, and held a consultation against him, how they might make away with him.
But Jesus knew it, and retired from thence, and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all,
and charged them that they should not make him known.
That what was spoken by Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, saying,
“Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, in whom my soul delighteth: I will put my Spirit upon him, and he shall proclaim judgment for the heathen.
He shall not contend, nor be clamorous; neither shall any man in the streets hear his voice.
A bruised reed shall he not break down, and smoking flax shall he not quench, until he break forth in judgment for victory.
And in his name shall the Gentiles hope.”
Then was brought to him a demoniac, blind and dumb; and he cured him, so as to enable the blind and dumb both to speak and see.
And all the multitudes were lost in amazement, and they said, Is not this the son of David?
But the Pharisees hearing them, said, This fellow casteth not out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of the devils.
But Jesus knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself will be desolated; and every city, or family, divided against itself cannot subsist:
so if Satan cast out Satan; he is divided against himself; how then can his kingdom subsist?
And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges.
But if I by the Spirit of God cast out the devils, then truly the kingdom of God is come unto you.
Else how can one enter into a strong man’s house and plunder his goods, except he first bind the strong man, and then will he plunder his goods?
He that is not with me, is against me; and he that associates not with me, scattereth abroad.
Therefore I say unto you, All sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven to men; but the blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven to men.
And whosoever may speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever shall speak against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, nor in the world to come.
Either make the tree good, and its fruit good; or make the tree corrupt, and its fruit corrupt: for the tree is known by the fruit.
Ye broods of vipers, how can ye speak good things, yourselves being wicked? for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things: and a wicked man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth evil things.
But I tell you, That every idle word which men speak, for it shall they give an account in the day of judgment.
For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned.
Then certain of the scribes and Pharisees addressed him, saying, Master, we desire to see a sign from thee.
But he answered and said unto them, A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh a sign; and no sign shall be given it, but the sign of Jonah the prophet:
for as Jonah was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights; so shall the Son of man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights.
The men of Nineveh shall rise up in judgment against this generation, and condemn it: for they repented on the preaching of Jonah; and behold, a greater than Jonah is here.
The queen of the South shall rise up in judgment against the men of this generation, and condemn it: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
When the unclean spirit is indeed gone out of a man, he traverses through places destitute of water, in search of rest, but cannot find it.
Then he saith, I will return to my mansion, whence I came; and on his arrival, he findeth it unoccupied, swept, and furnished.
Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first. So shall it also be with this wicked generation.
And while he was yet speaking to the multitudes, behold, his mother and his brethren stood without, desiring to speak to him.
And a person said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak to thee.
But he answered and said to him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?
And stretching out his hand towards his disciples, he said, Behold my mother and my brethren.
For whosoever shall do the will of my Father who is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.