These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun,
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
The sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him from the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, the first-born of Judah, was evil in Jehovah's sight, and He killed him.
And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore him Pharez and Zerah. All Judah's sons were five.
The sons of Pharez: Hezron and Hamul.
And the sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; all of them were five.
And the sons of Carmi: Achan, the troubler of Israel, who sinned in the cursed thing.
And the son of Ethan was Azariah,
and the sons of Hezron, who were born to him, were Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.
And Ram fathered Amminadab; and Amminadab fathered Nahshon, chief of the sons of Judah.
And Nahshon fathered Salma, and Salma fathered Boaz,
and Boaz fathered Obed, and Obed fathered Jesse.
And Jesse fathered his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third,
Nethaneel the fourth, and Raddai the fifth,
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh.
Their sisters: Zeruiah and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah were Abishai, and Joab and Asahel, three.
And Abigail bore Amasa: And the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
And Caleb the son of Hezron fathered sons by his wife Azubah, and by Jerioth; and these are her sons: Jesher, and Shobab and Ardon.
And Azubah died; and Caleb took to himself Ephrath, and she bore to him Hur.
And Hur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Bezaleel.
And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, and he took her when he was a son of sixty years. And she bore him Segub.
And Segub fathered Jair, who had twenty three cities in the land of Gilead.
And he took Geshur and Aram with the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath and its towns, sixty cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.
And after the death of Hezron in Caleb-ephratah, then Abiah, Hezron's wife bore to him Ashur the father of Tekoa.
And the sons of Jerahmeel the first-born of Hezron: Ram the first-born, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah.
Jerahmeel also had another wife and her name was Atarah. She was the mother of Onam.
And the sons of Ram, the first-born of Jerahmeel: Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.
And the sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
And the name of Abishur's wife was Abihail; and she bore to him Ahban and Molid.
And Nadab's sons: Seled and Appaim. But Seled died without sons.
And the son of Appaim was Ishi. And the son of Ishi was Sheshan. And the son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether died without sons.
And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.
And Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had an Egyptian servant, and his name was Jarha.
And Sheshan gave his daughter to his servant Jarha for a wife, and she bore him Attai.
And Attai fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad.
And Zabad fathered Ephlal, and Ephlal fathered Obed.
And Obed fathered Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah.
And Azariah fathered Helez, and Helez fathered Eleasah.
And Eleasah fathered Sisamai and Sisamai fathered Shallum.
And Shallum fathered Jekamiah, and Jekamiah fathered Elishama.
And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were his first-born Mesha, who was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron.
And the sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema.
And Shema fathered Raham, the father of Jorkoam. And Rekem fathered Shammai.
And the son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Beth-zur.
And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. And Haran fathered Gazez.
And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.
Caleb's concubine Maachah bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea. And Caleb's daughter was Achsah.
These were the sons of Caleb the son of Hur: the first-born of Ephratah was Shobal, the father of Kirjath-jearim;
Salma the father of Bethlehem; Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
And Shobal the father of Kirjath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, and half of the Manahethites.
And the families of Kirjath-jearim were the Ithrites, and the Puhites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites. From them came the Zareathites, and the Eshtaulites.
The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, Ataroth, the house of Joab; and half the Manahethites; the Zorites.
And the families of the scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites; the Shimeathites; the Suchathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab.