A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scoffer listens not to rebuke.
A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth, but the soul of the treacherous, violence.
He who guards his mouth keeps his life. He who opens wide his lips shall have destruction.
The soul of the sluggard desires, and has nothing, but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
A righteous man hates lying, but a wicked man is loathsome, and comes to shame.
Righteousness guards him who is upright in the way, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
There is he who makes himself rich, yet has nothing, and he who makes himself poor, yet has great wealth.
The ransom of a man's life is his riches, but the poor hears no threatening.
The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
Through pride a vain man causes contention, but wisdom is with the well-advised.
Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished, but he who gathers by labor shall have increase.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but when the desire comes, it is a tree of life.
He who despises the word brings destruction on himself, but he who fears the commandment shall be rewarded.
The law of a wise man is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Good understanding gives favor, but the way of the transgressor is hard.
Every prudent man works with knowledge, but a fool flaunts folly.
A wicked messenger falls into evil, but a faithful ambassador is health.
Poverty and shame are to him who refuses correction, but he who regards reproof shall be honored.
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul, but it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil.
Walk with wise men, and thou shall be wise. But the companion of fools shall smart for it.
Evil pursues sinners, but the righteous shall be recompensed with good.
A good man leaves an inheritance to his son's sons, and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous.
Much food is in the tillage of the poor, but there is that is consumed because of injustice.
He who spares his rod hates his son, but he who loves him chastens him promptly.
A righteous man eats to the satisfying of his soul, but the belly of the wicked shall want.