And the sons of Israel pulled up stakes and camped on the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan, by Jericho.
And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
And Moab greatly feared because of the people, for it was many. And Moab was vexed by the presence of the sons of Israel.
And Moab said to the elders of Midian, Now this assembly is licking up all that is around us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field. And Balak the son of Zippor was king of Moab at that time.
And he sent messengers to Balaam the son of Beor, to Pethor which is beside the River of the land of the sons of his people, to call for him, saying, Behold! A people has come out of Egypt. Behold! it has covered the face of the earth, and it is setting next to me.
And now please come, curse this people for me, for it is stronger than I. Perhaps I will prevail, that we may strike them, that I may drive them out from the land. For I know that whoever you bless is blessed, and whoever you curse is cursed.
And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian left with the rewards of the seer in their hand. And they came to Balaam and spoke the words of Balak to him.
And he said to them, Stay here tonight, and I will bring back word to you, even as Jehovah may speak to me. And the leaders of Moab stayed with Balaam.
And God came to Balaam and said, Who are these men with you?
And Balaam said to God, Balak the son of Zippor king of Moab has sent to me,
saying , Behold, a people has come out of Egypt which covers the eye of the earth. Now come, curse them for me; perhaps I will be able to overcome it and drive it out.
And God said to Balaam, You shall not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for it is blessed.
And Balaam rose in the morning and said to the leaders of Balak. Go to your land, for Jehovah has refused to allow me to go with you.
And the leaders of Moab rose up and came to Balak. And they said, Balaam refuses to come with us.
And Balak sent yet again, more leaders and more honorable than they.
And they came to Balaam and said to him, So says Balak the son of Zippor, Please do not be hindered from coming to me,
for I will honor you with very much honor; and all that you say to me I will do. And please come, curse this people for me.
And Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak, If Balak would give to me his house full of gold and silver, I could not go beyond the mouth of Jehovah my God, to do anything, small or great.
And now you also please stay here tonight. And I shall know what more Jehovah may speak to me.
And God came to Balaam at night and said to him, If the men have come to call you, rise up, go with them and say only the thing that I speak to you; it you shall do.
And Balaam rose up in the morning and saddled his ass and went with the leaders of Moab.
And the anger of God glowed because he went. And the Angel of Jehovah set Himself in the road, as an enemy against him. And he was riding on his ass, and two of his young men with him.
And the ass saw the Angel of Jehovah standing in the road, and His sword was drawn in His hand. And the ass turned out of the road and went into a field. And Balaam struck the ass, to turn it back into the road.
And the Angel of Jehovah stood in a narrow path of the vineyards, a wall being on this side and a wall on that.
And the ass saw the Angel of Jehovah, and she pushed herself to the wall and crushed the foot of Balaam against the wall. And again he struck her.
And again the Angel of Jehovah passed on and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to turn, either to the right or to the left.
And the ass saw the Angel of Jehovah, and she lay down under Balaam. And the anger of Balaam glowed, and he struck the ass with his staff.
And Jehovah opened the mouth of the ass, and she said to Balaam, What have I done to you that you have struck me these three times?
And Balaam said to the ass, Because you have insulted Me. if only there were a sword in my hand now I would kill you.
And the ass said to Balaam, Am I not your ass on which you have ridden all your life long to this day? Was I ever known to do so to you? And he said, No.
And Jehovah opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the Angel of Jehovah standing in the road with His sword drawn in His hand. And he bowed and fell on his face.
And the Angel of Jehovah said to him, Why have you struck your ass these three times? Behold, I have come out as an enemy because your way is contrary to Me.
And the ass saw Me and turned aside before Me these three times. If she had not turned aside surely now I would have killed you and saved her alive.
And Balaam said to the Angel of Jehovah, I have sinned, for I did not know that You stood against me in the way. Now if evil is in Your eyes, I will turn back by myself.
And the Angel of Jehovah said to Balaam, Go with the men. But only the word that I speak to you, it you shall speak. And Balaam went with the leaders of Balak.
And when Balak heard that Balaam had come, and had gone out to meet him, to a city of Moab which is on the border of Arnon, which is in the outermost border,
then Balak said to Balaam, Sending, did I not send to you, to call for you? Why did you not come to me? Am I not truly able to honor you?
And Balaam said to Balak, Behold, I have come to you. Now am I able to speak anything at all? The word which God puts in my mouth, that I will speak.
And Balaam went with Balak. And they came to Kirjath-huzoth.
And Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam and to the leaders who were with him.
And it happened in the morning, and Balak took Balaam and caused him to go up to the high places of Baal. And from there he saw the edge of the people.