And the rulers of the people lived at Jerusalem. And the rest of the people cast lots, to bring one of every ten to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts in other cities.
And the people blessed all the men who willingly offered themselves to live at Jerusalem.
And these are the rulers of the province who lived in Jerusalem. But in the cities of Judah everyone lived in his possession in their cities: Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the temple-slaves, and the sons of Solomon's servants.
And at Jerusalem lived certain of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin. From the sons of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, of the sons of Perez,
and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of Shiloni.
All the sons of Perez who lived in Jerusalem were four hundred and sixty-eight mighty men.
And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah;
and after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred and twenty-eight.
And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer. And Judah the son of Senuah was second over the city.
From the priests were Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
Seraiah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God.
And their brothers who did the work of the house were eight hundred and twenty-two. And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchiah,
and his brothers, chief of the fathers, two hundred and forty-two. And Amashai the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
and their brothers, mighty men of power, were a hundred and twenty-eight. And their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of one of the great men.
And from the Levites were Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni.
And Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chief of the Levites, were over the outward business of the house of God.
And Mattaniah the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, was the leader to begin the thanksgiving in prayer. And Bakbukiah was second among his brothers, and then Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred and eighty-four.
And the gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers who kept the gates, were a hundred and seventy-two.
And the rest of Israel, of the priests and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, each one in his inheritance.
But the temple-slaves lived in Ophel; and Ziha and Gispa were over the temple-slaves.
And the overseer of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micha. Of the sons of Asaph, the singers were over the business of the house of God.
For it was the king's commandment concerning them that a certain portion should be for the singers, due for every day.
And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabeel, of the sons of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people.
And for the villages, with their fields, some of the sons of Judah lived at Kirjath-arba, and in its villages, and at Dibon, and in its villages, and at Jekabzeel, and its villages,
and at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Beth-phelet,
and at Hazar-shual, and at Beer-sheba, and in its villages,
and at Ziklag, and at Mekonah, and in its villages,
and at En-rimmon, and at Zareah, and at Jarmuth,
Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, at Lachish, and the fields of it, at Azekah, and in its villages. And they lived from Beer-sheba to the valley of Hinnom.
And the sons of Benjamin from Geba lived at Michmash, and Aija, and Bethel, and their villages,
at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
Lod, and Ono, the Valley of Craftsmen.
And divisions of the Levites were in Judah and for Benjamin.