And I, brothers, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, [even] as unto babes in Christ.
I have fed you with milk, and not with [solid] food, for until now ye were not able [to bear it], neither yet now are ye able.
For ye are yet carnal: for whereas [there is] among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men?
For while one says, I am of Paul, and another, I [am] of Apollos, are ye not carnal?
Who then is Paul? and who [is] Apollos? but servants by whom ye believed, each one according [to that which] the Lord gave.
I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase.
So then neither is he that plants anything, neither he that waters, but God that gives the increase.
Now he that plants and he that waters are one although each one shall receive his own reward according to his own labour.
For we are labourers together with God; ye are God's husbandry, [ye are] God's building.
According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another builds upon it. But let each one see how the building is built.
For no one can lay another foundation than that laid, which is Jesus the Christ.
Now if anyone builds upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble,
the work of each one shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it because it shall be revealed by fire; the work of each one, whatever sort it is, the fire shall put it to test.
If the work of anyone abides which he has built thereupon, he shall receive a reward.
If anyone's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire.
Know ye not that ye are the temple of God and [that] the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If anyone defiles the temple of God, God shall destroy that one; for the temple of God is holy, which [temple] ye are.
Let no one deceive themself. If any one among you seems to be wise in this age, let them become a fool that they may be wise.
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He takes the wise in their own craftiness.
And again, The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain.
Therefore let no one glory in men. For all things are yours;
whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come, all are yours;
and ye are Christ's; and Christ [is] God's.: