And the sabbath passing, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Salome, bought spices, so that coming they might anoint Him.
And very early on the first of the week, the sun having risen, they came upon the tomb.
And they said to themselves, Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us?
And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back; for it was very large.
And entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, having been clothed in a white robe. And they were much amazed.
But He said to them, Do not be amazed. You seek Jesus the Nazarene who has been crucified. He was raised. He is not here. See the place where they put Him?
But go, say to the disciples and to Peter, He goes before you into Galilee. You will see Him there, even as He told you.
And going out quickly, they fled from the tomb. And trembling and ecstasy took hold of them. And they told no one, not a thing, for they were afraid.
And rising early on the first of the week, He first appeared to Mary Magdalene, from whom He had cast out seven demons.
That one had gone and reported to those who had been with Him, who were mourning and weeping.
And those hearing that He lives, and was seen by her, they did not believe.
And after these things, He was revealed in a different form to two of them walking and going into the country.
And going, those reported to the rest. Neither did they believe those.
Afterward, as they reclined, He was revealed to the Eleven. And He reproached their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen Him, having been raised.
And He said to them, Going into all the world, preach the gospel to all the creation.
The one believing and being baptized will be saved. And the one not believing will be condemned.
And signs will follow to those believing these things: they will cast out demons in My name; they will speak new languages;
they will take up snakes; and if they drink anything deadly, it will in no way hurt them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will be well.
Then indeed, after speaking to them, the Lord was taken up into Heaven, and sat off the right of God. Psa. 110:1
And going out, they preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word by the signs following. Amen.