But concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, there is no need of writing to you;
for ye yourselves know full well, that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.
When they are saying, Peace and safety; then doth sudden destruction come upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.
But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you as a thief;
for ye all are sons of light, and sons of the day; we are not of the night, nor of darkness.
Let us not sleep, then, as others, but let us watch and be sober.
For they that sleep, sleep in the night; and they that are drunken, are drunken in the night;
but let us, as we are of the day, be sober, putting on the breast-plate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation;
for God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should together live with him.
Wherefore, encourage one another, and edify one another, as indeed ye are doing.
And we beseech you, brethren, to know those who labor among you, and preside over you in the Lord, and admonish you,
and to esteem them very highly in love for their work’s sake. Be at peace among yourselves.
Moreover we exhort you, brethren, admonish the unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be forbearing to all.
See that none render evil for evil to any one; but ever follow that which is good, both toward one another and toward all.
Be always joyful.
Pray without ceasing;
in everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus in regard to you.
Quench not the Spirit;
despise not prophesyings,
but prove all things; hold fast that which is good;
abstain from every form of evil.
And may the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly; and may your spirit, and soul, and body, be preserved whole, without blame at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he who calleth you, who also will do it.
Brethren, pray for us.
Salute all the brethren with a holy kiss.
I adjure you by the Lord, that this letter be read to all the holy brethren.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.