The wicked flee when no man pursues; but the righteous are bold as a lion.
Because of the transgression of a land, many are its rulers; but it is prolonged by a man of discernment who knows right.
A poor man who crushes the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaves no food.
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked; but those who keep the law plead against them.
Evil men do not understand judgment; but those who seek the LORD understand all things.
Better is the poor who walks in his uprightness than he who is perverse in his ways, though he is rich.
Whoever keeps the law is a wise son, but a companion of gluttons shames his father.
He who increases his wealth by interest and unjust gain, he shall gather it for him who will pity the poor.
He who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is a hateful thing.
Whoever causes the righteous man to go astray in an evil way, he himself shall fall into his own pit; but the upright shall inherit good.
The rich man is wise in his own eyes; but the poor who has understanding searches him out.
When the righteous rejoice, there is great glory; but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden.
He who covers his sins shall not be blessed; but whoever confesses and leaves them shall have mercy.
Blessed is the man dreading God, but he who hardens his heart shall fall into mischief.
Like a roaring lion and a ranging bear, so is a wicked ruler over the helpless people.
A ruler lacking understanding even adds oppressions; he who hates unjust gain shall prolong his days.
A man who is pressed down with the blood of a soul shall flee to the pit; do not let them uphold him.
Whoever walks uprightly shall be saved; but he who is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread, but he pursuing vanities shall have poverty enough.
A faithful man shall overflow with blessings, but he who makes haste to be rich shall not be innocent.
To have respect of persons is not good; yea, for a piece of bread a man will transgress.
He who hastens to be rich has an evil eye, and does not know that poverty will come upon him.
He who rebukes a man shall afterwards find more favor than he who flatters with the tongue.
Whoever robs his father or his mother and says, It is no sin he shall be a companion to a destroyer.
He who is of a proud heart stirs up fighting; but he who puts his trust in the LORD shall be made fat.
He who trusts in his own heart is a fool; but whoever walks wisely, he shall be delivered.
He who gives to the poor shall not lack, but he who hides his eyes shall have many a curse.
When the wicked rise, a man hides himself, but when they perish, the righteous increase.