The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem:
And it shall be in the last days, the mountain of the house of Jehovah shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow into it.
And many people shall go and say, Come and let us go up to the mount of Jehovah, to the house of the God of Jacob. And He will teach from His ways, and we will walk in His paths. For out of Zion the law will go forth, and the word of Jehovah from Jerusalem.
And He shall judge among the nations and shall rebuke many people. And they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, nor shall they learn war any more.
Oh house of Jacob, come and let us walk in the light of Jehovah.
For You have forsaken Your people, the house of Jacob, because they are filled from the east, and are fortunetellers like the Philistines. And they clap hands with children of foreigners.
And his land is filled with silver and gold. There is no end of his treasures. And his land is full of horses; his chariots also do not have an end.
And his land is full of idols; they worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made.
And man bowed down; and man was humbled, but You do not lift them up.
Enter into the rock and hide in the dust from fear of Jehovah, and from the glory of His majesty.
The lofty eyes of man shall be humbled, and the pride of men shall be bowed down; but Jehovah, He alone, will be exalted in that day.
For the day of Jehovah of Hosts shall be on all the proud and lofty ones, and on all that is lifted up; and it will be abased;
and against all Lebanon's cedars, high and lifted up; and against all the oaks of Bashan;
and against all the high mountains; and against all the lifted up hills;
and against every tall tower; and against every fortified wall;
and against all the ships of Tarshish; and on all pleasurable craft.
And the pride of man shall be humbled; and the loftiness of men shall be abased; and Jehovah alone will be exalted in that day.
And the idols shall completely vanish.
And they shall go into the caves of the rocks, and into the holes of the earth, for fear of Jehovah, and from the glory of His majesty; when He rises up to make the earth quake.
ln that day a man shall throw his silver and his golden idols which they made for him to worship, to the hole of the burrower and to the bats;
to go into the crevices of the rocks, and into the clefts of the cliffs, from the dread of Jehovah, and from the glory of His majesty; when He rises up to make the earth quake.
Cease yourself from man, whose breath is in his nostril, for in what is he to be esteemed?