AND immediately the chief priests having held a council in the morning, with the elders, and scribes, and the whole sanhedrim, after binding Jesus, led him away, and delivered him up to Pilate.
And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? He answering said to him, Thou sayest true.
And the chief priests laid many accusations against him.
Then Pilate again interrogated him, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how many things they testify against thee.
But Jesus notwithstanding made not a word of reply; so that Pilate marvelled.
Now at the feast, he released one prisoner to them, whomsoever they petitioned for.
And there was one called Barabbas, bound with those who had made an insurrection with him, and had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the multitude, clamorous, began to petition him to do, as he had always done to them.
Then Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the king of the Jews?
(For he knew that out of envy the chief priests had delivered him up.)
Then the chief priests stirred up the people, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them.
Then Pilate addressing them, said unto them again, What therefore do you wish that I should do with him whom ye call the king of the Jews?
And they cried out again, Crucify him.
Then Pilate said unto them, But what criminal act hath he done? And they cried the more vociferously, Crucify him.
So Pilate, willing to do what would be satisfactory to the people, released to them Barabbas, and delivered Jesus to be scourged, in order to be crucified.
Then the soldiers led him to the hall, which is the Praetorium, and called together the whole band.
And they invested him with a robe of purple, and platting a crown of thorns, put it about his head,
and began to pay their salutations to him, Hail, King of the Jews!
And they struck him on the head with a cane, and spat upon him, and bowing their knees payed him homage.
And when they had treated him with mockery, they took off the purple robe from him, and clothed him with his own garments, and led him out to crucify him.
And they compel one Simon, a Cyrenian, who was passing by, coming out of the field, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross.
And they convey him to a place called Golgotha, which is being interpreted, The place of a skull.
And they gave him to drink wine medicated with myrrh: but he received it not.
And having crucified him, they divided his garments, casting the lot upon them, what each should take.
Now it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
And there was an inscription of his crime written over him, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right hand, and the other on his left.
And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, “And he was reckoned among the transgressors.”
And they who passed along, blasphemed him, shaking their heads, and saying, Aha! thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days,
save thyself, and come down from the cross.
And in the same manner also, the chief priests mocking him, among each other, with the scribes, said, He saved others, himself he cannot save.
Thou Messiah, King of Israel, come now down from the cross, that we may see, and believe. Even those who were crucified with him railed on him.
Now when the sixth hour came, there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabacthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, for what cause hast thou abandoned me?
And some of those who stood by, hearing him, said, Behold, he crieth for Elias.
Then one ran, and filling a sponge with vinegar, fixed it round a cane, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone, let us see if Elias comes to take him down.
Then Jesus, uttering a loud cry, gave up the ghost.
And the vail of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom.
And the centurion, who stood opposite to him, observing, that with such a cry he gave up the ghost, said, Assuredly this was the Son of God.
Now there were also women looking on at a distance; among whom also was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the small, and the mother of Joses, and Salome.
These women followed him when he was in Galilee, and supplied his wants; and many other women who went up with him to Jerusalem.
And when the evening was now come (since it was the preparation, that is the day preceding the sabbath),
Joseph, who was from Arimathea, came, a respectable person, a counsellor, and who himself also was expecting the kingdom of God; taking courage, he went in to Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.
Then Pilate marvelled that he should be already dead: and calling for the centurion, he asked him, If he had been dead any time.
And when he knew it from the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
And having bought a wrapper of fine linen, and taken him down, he wrapped him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a sepulchre, which was hewn out of a rock; and rolled a stone to the door of the sepulchre.
Now Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of Joses, saw where he was laid.