And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
When a man shall have in the skin of his flesh a rising, or a scab, or a bright spot, and it becomes in the skin of his flesh a leprous disease, then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest, or to one of his sons the priests.
And the priest shall look on the disease in the skin of the flesh, and if the hair in the disease has turned white, and the appearance of the disease is deeper than the skin of his flesh, it is a leprous disease. And the priest shall look on him, and pronounce him unclean.
And if the bright spot is white in the skin of his flesh, and the appearance of it is not deeper than the skin, and the hair of it has not turned white, then the priest shall shut up the disease seven days.
And the priest shall look on him the seventh day, and, behold, if in his eyes the disease is arrested, and the disease is not spread in the skin, then the priest shall shut him up seven days more.
And the priest shall look on him again the seventh day, and, behold, if the disease is dim, and the disease has not spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. It is a scab, and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
But if the scab spreads abroad in the skin after he has shown himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall show himself to the priest again.
And the priest shall look, and, behold, if the scab is spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprous disease.
When the leprous disease is in a man, then he shall be brought to the priest.
And the priest shall look, and, behold, if there is a white rising in the skin, and it has turned the hair white, and there is quick raw flesh in the rising,
it is an old leprous disease in the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. He shall not shut him up, for he is unclean.
And if the leprous disease breaks out abroad in the skin, and the leprous disease covers all the skin of the disease from his head even to his feet, as far as appears to the priest,
then the priest shall look. And, behold, if the leprous disease has covered all his flesh, he shall pronounce him clean of the disease. It is all turned white; he is clean.
But whenever raw flesh appears in him, he shall be unclean.
And the priest shall look on the raw flesh, and pronounce him unclean. The raw flesh is unclean; it is a leprous disease.
Or if the raw flesh turns again, and is changed to white, then he shall come to the priest.
And the priest shall look on him, and, behold, if the disease is turned into white, then the priest shall pronounce him clean of the disease; he is clean.
And when the flesh has a boil in the skin of it, and it is healed,
and in the place of the boil there is a white rising, or a bright spot, reddish-white, then it shall be shown to the priest.
And the priest shall look, and, behold, if the appearance of it is deeper than the skin, and the hair of it has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprous disease; it has broken out in the boil.
But if the priest looks on it, and, behold, there are no white hairs in it, and it is not deeper than the skin, but is dim, then the priest shall shut him up seven days.
And if it spreads abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a disease.
But if the bright spot stays in its place, and has not spread, it is the scar of the boil, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
Or when the flesh has a burning by fire in the skin of it, and the quick of the burning become a bright spot, reddish-white, or white,
then the priest shall look upon it. And, behold, if the hair in the bright spot has turned white, and the appearance of it is deeper than the skin, it is a leprous disease. It has broken out in the burning, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a leprous disease.
But if the priest looks on it, and, behold, there is no white hair in the bright spot, and it is no deeper than the skin, but is dim, then the priest shall shut him up seven days.
And the priest shall look upon him the seventh day. If it spread abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a leprous disease.
And if the bright spot stays in its place, and has not spread in the skin, but is dim, it is the rising of the burning, and the priest shall pronounce him clean, for it is the scar of the burning.
And when a man or woman has a disease upon the head or upon the beard,
then the priest shall look on the disease. And, behold, if the appearance of it is deeper than the skin, and there is yellow thin hair in it, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a scall. It is a leprous disease of the head or of the beard.
And if the priest looks on the disease of the scall, and, behold, the appearance of it is not deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall shut up the disease of the scall seven days.
And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the disease, and, behold, if the scall has not spread, and there is in it no yellow hair, and the appearance of the scall is not deeper than the skin,
then he shall be shaven, but the scall he shall not shave, and the priest shall shut up him who has the scall seven days more.
And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the scall, and, behold, if the scall has not spread in the skin, and the appearance of it is not deeper than the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. And he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
But if the scall spreads abroad in the skin after his cleansing,
then the priest shall look on him. And, behold, if the scall has spread in the skin, the priest shall not seek for the yellow hair, he is unclean.
But if in his eyes the scall is arrested, and black hair is grown up in it, the scall is healed. He is clean, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
And when a man or a woman has bright spots in the skin of the flesh, even white bright spots,
then the priest shall look. And, behold, if the bright spots in the skin of their flesh are of a dull white, it is a tetter. It has broken out in the skin; he is clean.
And if a man's hair is fallen off his head, he is bald; he is clean.
And if his hair is fallen off from the front part of his head, he is forehead bald; he is clean.
But if there is a reddish-white disease in the bald head, or the bald forehead, it is a leprous disease breaking out in his bald head, or his bald forehead.
Then the priest shall look upon him, and, behold, if the rising of the disease is reddish-white in his bald head, or in his bald forehead, as the appearance of a leprous disease in the skin of the flesh,
he is a leprous man; he is unclean. The priest shall surely pronounce him unclean; his disease is on his head.
And the man with a leprous disease in whom the disease is, his clothes shall be torn, and the hair of his head shall go loose, and he shall cover his upper lip, and shall cry, Unclean, unclean.
All the days in which the disease is in him he shall be unclean; he is unclean. He shall dwell alone; his dwelling shall be outside the camp.
The garment also that a leprous disease is in, whether it be a woolen garment, or a linen garment,
whether it be in warp, or woof, of linen, or of woolen, whether in a skin, or in anything made of skin,
if the disease is greenish or reddish in the garment, or in the skin, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is a leprous disease, and shall be shown to the priest.
And the priest shall look upon the disease, and shut up the disease seven days.
And he shall look on the disease on the seventh day. If the disease has spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in the skin, whatever service skin is used for, the disease is a fretting leprosy, it is unclean.
And he shall burn the garment, whether the warp or the woof, in woolen or in linen, or anything of skin, in which the disease is, for it is a fretting leprosy. It shall be burnt in the fire.
And if the priest shall look, and, behold, the disease has not spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of skin,
then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which the disease is, and he shall shut it up seven more days.
And the priest shall look, after the disease is washed, and, behold, if the disease has not changed its color, and the disease has not spread, it is unclean. Thou shall burn it in the fire. It is a fret, whether the bareness be inside or outside.
And if the priest looks, and, behold, the disease is dim after the washing of it, then he shall tear it out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the warp, or out of the woof.
And if it still appears in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in anything of skin, it is breaking out. Thou shall burn that in which the disease is with fire.
And the garment, either the warp, or the woof, or whatever thing of skin it be, which thou shall wash, if the disease has departed from them, then it shall be washed the second time, and shall be clean.
This is the law of a leprous disease in a garment of woolen or linen, either in the warp, or the woof, or anything of skin, to pronounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean.