When Festus, having entered upon his government, after three days went up from Cæsarea to Jerusalem.
And the chief priest and first men of the Jews informed him against Paul,
and, asking a favor against him, besought him that he would send and have him brought to Jerusalem, laying a plot to kill him on the road.
Then Festus answered, that Paul was under guard in Cæsarea, and that he himself would soon depart thither.
Therefore, said he, let those among you who are men of influence, go down with me, and accuse this man, if there is any wickedness in him.
And he remained among them not more than eight or ten days, and then went down to Cæsarea And, on the next day, he sat upon the judgment-seat, and commanded Paul to be brought.
And when he had come, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around, and brought many and heavy accusations against Paul, which they were not able to prove,
he answering for himself: Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Cæsar, have I committed any offense.
But Festus, willing to confer a favor on the Jews, answered Paul, and said: Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged before me concerning these things?
And Paul answered: I am standing at the judgment-seat of Cæsar, where I ought to be judged. To the Jews I have done no wrong, as you very well know.
If, however, I be an offender, and have done any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die. But if the things of which these men accuse me are nothing, no one can deliver me to them. I appeal to Cæsar.
Then Festus, after conferring with the council, answered: To Cæsar have you appealed? To Cæsar you shall go.
And after some days, King Agrippa and Bernice came down to Cæsarea, to salute Festus.
And as they remained there many days, Festus made known to the king the facts concerning Paul, saying: There is a certain man, who was left in bonds by Felix,
concerning whom, when I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and elders of the Jews informed me, asking for judgment against him.
I replied to them, that it is not the custom of the Romans to deliver any man up to death, before the accused has had his accusers face to face, and has had an opportunity to answer concerning the charge that is against him.
Therefore, when they had come hither with me, I made no delay; but, on the next day, sat on the judgment-seat, and commanded the man to be brought forth.
And when his accusers stood up, they brought no such charge against him as I expected;
but they had certain questions against him, about their own religion, and about a certain Jesus that had died, who, Paul affirmed, was alive.
But, being in doubt about the question concerning this man, I asked him if he would go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged with respect to these matters.
But when Paul made his appeal, that he should be kept for the judgment of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept, till I could send him to Cæsar
And Agrippa said to Festus: I could wish to have heard the man myself. He replied: To-morrow you shall hear him.
Therefore, on the morrow, when Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp, and entered the place of audience, with the officers and principal men of the city, Paul, at the command of Festus, was brought forth.
And Festus said: King Agrippa, and all men here present, you see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews, both in Jerusalem and in this place, have entreated me, crying out, that he ought to live no longer.
But finding that he had done nothing worthy of death, and as he himself has appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.
Concerning him I have nothing certain to write to my Lord. For this reason, I have brought him before you all, and especially before you, King Agrippa, that, after the examination has been held, I may have something to write.
For it seems to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not to make known the charges that are against him.