In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, came Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and all his force against Jerusalem, and they besieged it.
In the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month on the ninth of the month, was the city broken into.
Then came in all the princes of the king of Babylon, and sat in the middle gate,—Nergal-sharezer, Samgar-nebo, Sarsechim, chief eunuch Nergal-sharezer, chief soothsayer, and all the residue of the princes of the king of Babylon.
And it came to pass as soon as Zedekiah king of Judah and all the men of war saw them, that they fled, and went forth by night out of the city, by way of the king’s garden, through the gate between the two walls,—and he went forth by way of the waste plain.
But the force of the Chaldeans pursued them, and overtook Zedekiah in the waste plains of Jericho, and when they had taken him, they brought him up unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, to Riblah, in the land of Hamath,—and pronounced upon him sentences of judgment.
And the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah, in Riblah before his eyes,—and all the nobles of Judah, did the king of Babylon slay;
and the eyes of Zedekiah, did he put out, and bound him with fetters of bronze to bring him into Babylon.
And the house of the king, and the houses of the people, did the Chaldeans burn with fire, and the walls of Jerusalem, brake they down;
and the remnant of the people who were left in the city, and the disheartened who fell away unto him, and the remnant of the people who were left, did Nebuzaradan chief of the royal executioners, take captive to Babylon.
But of the poor people, who had, nothing, did Nebuzaradan chief of the royal executioners, leave remaining in the land of Judah, and gave them vineyards and ploughed fields on the same day.
Then Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon gave command, concerning Jeremiah,—through Nebuzaradan chief of the royal executioners saying:
Take him and, thine eyes, set thou upon him, and do not unto him any harmful thing,—but just as he shall speak unto thee, so, shalt thou do with him.
So Nebuzaradan chief of the royal executioners, sent, also Nebushazban, chief of the eunuchs, and Nergal-sharezer chief of the magi, and all the chiefs of the king of Babylon;
yea they sent and fetched Jeremiah out of the guard-court, and delivered him unto Gedaliah son of Ahikam son of Shaphan, to bring him forth into a home, so he dwelt in the midst of the people.
Now unto Jeremiah, had come the word of Yahweh, while he was yet shut up in the guard-court, saying:
Go and speak to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying,—Thus saith Yahweh of hosts God of Israel, Behold me! bringing about my words against this city, for, calamity—and not for blessing,—and they shall come to pass before thee, in that day.
But I will deliver thee in that day, Declareth Yahweh,—and thou shalt not be given up into the hand of the men from the face of whom, thou, mightest shrink with fear.
For I will, surely, deliver, thee, and by the sword, shalt thou not fall,—but thou shalt have thine own life as a spoil, Because thou hast trusted in me, Declareth Yahweh.