And there was given me a reed like to a staff, a voice saying: Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein;
but the court which is outside the temple, leave out, and measure it not, for it hath been given to the gentiles; and the holy city will they tread under foot forty-two months.
And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
These are the two olive-trees, and the two candlesticks, which stand before the Lord of the earth.
And if any one designs to hurt them, fire goeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies; and if any one designs to hurt them, he must in this manner be killed.
These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy; and have power over the waters, to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with every plague, as often as they will.
And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that cometh up out of the abyss will make war against them, and will overcome them, and kill them.
And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord also was crucified.
And some from among the peoples, and tribes, and tongues, and nations, will look upon their dead bodies three days and a half, and will not suffer their dead bodies to be put into a tomb.
And they that dwell upon the earth will rejoice over them, and make merry, and will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those who dwelt on the earth.
And after three days and a half the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon those who saw them.
And they heard a loud voice from heaven, saying to them, Come up hither; and they went up into heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.
And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain seven thousand men; and the rest became afraid, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second woe is past; behold, the third woe cometh quickly.
And the seventh angel sounded, and there followed loud voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world is become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever.
And the twenty-four elders, who sat before God on their thrones, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God,
saying, We give thanks to thee, O Lord God Almighty, who art and who wast, because thou hast taken thy great power, and hast reigned.
And the nations were enraged, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead to be judged, and to give the reward to thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to them that fear thy name, the small and the great; and to destroy the destroyers of the earth.
And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of his covenant was seen in his temple; and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and an earthquake, and a great hailstorm.