And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called for Aaron, and for his sons,—and for the elders of Israel;
and said unto Aaron—Take for thyself a choice calf, as a sin-bearer, and a ram for an ascending-sacrifice, each without defect,—and bring them near before Yahweh;
and unto the sons of Israel, shalt thou speak, saying,—Take ye a he-goat, as a sin-bearer, and a calf and a young sheep, each a year old, without defect for an ascending-sacrifice;
and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before Yahweh, and a meal-offering overflowed with oil,—for, to-day, doth, Yahweh, appear unto you.
So they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting,—and all the assembly drew near, and stood before Yahweh.
And Moses said—This, is the thing which Yahweh hath commanded that ye shall do,—that the glory of Yahweh may appear unto you.
and Moses said unto Aaron—Draw near unto the altar, and offer thy sin-bearer and thine ascending-sacrifice, and put a propitiatory-covering about thyself and about the people,—and offer the oblation of the people and put a propitiatory-covering about them, As Yahweh hath commanded.
So Aaron drew near unto the altar,—and slew the sin-bearing calf which was for himself;
and the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put [thereof] upon the horns of the altar,—and the [remainder of the] blood, poured he out at the base of the altar;
and with the fat and the kidneys and the caul a from the liver, of the sin-bearer, made he a perfume at the altar,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
But, the flesh and the skin, consumed he with fire, outside the camp.
Then slew he the ascending-sacrifice,—and the sons of Aaron presented unto him the blood, and he dashed it against the altar round about.
And the ascending-sacrifice, presented they unto him piece by piece thereof also the head,—and he made a perfume upon the altar:
and he bathed the inwards and the legs,—and made a perfume upon the ascending-sacrifice at the altar.
Then brought he near the oblation of the people,—and took the sin-bearing goat which pertained to the people, and slew it and made therewith a sin-bearer, like the first.
Then brought he near the ascending-sacrifice,—and offered it, according to the regulation,
Then brought he near the meal-offering, and filled his hand therefrom, and made a perfume upon the altar,—in addition to the ascending-sacrifice of the morning.
Then slew he the ox, and the ram, as a peace-offering, which pertained unto the people,—and the sons of Aaron presented the blood unto him, and he dashed it against the altar, round about;
and the portions of fat from the ox,—and from the ram, the fat-tail, and the covering, and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver;
and they put the portions of fat upon the breasts,—and he made a perfume with the fat at the altar;
but the breasts and the right shoulder, did Aaron wave as a wave-offering, before Yahweh,—as Moses commanded,
Then Aaron lifted up his hands towards the people, and blessed them,—and he came down from offering the sin-bearer, and the ascending-sacrifice and the peace-offering.
And when Moses and Aaron had entered into the tent of meeting,—and had come forth, and blessed the people, then appeared the glory of Yahweh, unto all the people;
yea, there came forth fire from before Yahweh, and consumed upon the altar, the ascending-sacrifice and the portions of fat,—and all the people beheld and shouted, and fell down upon their faces.