And it came to pass, after the death of Moses the servant of Yahweh,—that Yahweh spake unto Joshua son of Nun, the attendant of Moses, saying:
Moses my servant, is dead,—Now, therefore, arise, pass over this Jordan, thou, and all this people, into the land which I am giving unto them—unto the sons of Israel.
Every place whereon the sole of your foot shall tread, unto you, have I given it,—as I spake unto Moses.
From the desert and this Lebanon, even unto the great river—the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and unto the great sea, toward the going in of the sun, shall be your boundary.
No man shall stand before thee, all the days of thy life,—as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee, I will not fail thee, neither will I forsake thee.
Be firm and bold,—for, thou, shalt cause this people to inherit the land which I sware unto their fathers,—to give unto them.
Only be very firm and bold, taking heed to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee, do not turn aside therefrom, to the right hand or to the left,—that thou mayest prosper, whithersoever thou goest.
This scroll of the law must not cease out of thy mouth, but thou must talk to thyself therein, day and night, that thou mayest take heed to do according to all that is written therein,—for, then, shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and, then, shalt thou have good success.
Have I not commanded thee, Be firm and bold, do not start nor be dismayed,—for, with thee, is Yahweh thy God, whithersoever thou goest?
So then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying:
Pass ye through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying: Make ready for yourselves, provisions,—for, in three days more, are ye to pass over this Jordan, to go in and possess the land which Yahweh your God is giving you, to possess.
And, unto the Reubenites, and unto the Gadites, and unto the half tribe of Manasseh, spake Joshua, saying:
Remember the word which Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded you, saying,—Yahweh your God, is granting you rest, and doth give you this land.
Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle, shall remain in the land which Moses hath given you over the Jordan,—but, ye, shall pass over, armed, before your brethren,—all ye mighty men of valour, and shall help them;
until that Yahweh shall grant rest unto your brethren, as unto you, so shall, they also, possess the land which Yahweh your God giveth them,—then shall ye return unto the land of your possession, and possess it, which Moses the servant of Yahweh hath given you over the Jordan, towards the rising of the sun.
Then responded they to Joshua, saying,—All that thou hast commanded us, will we do, and, whithersoever thou shalt send us, will we go:
As in every thing we hearkened unto Moses, so, will we hearken unto thee,—only let Yahweh thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses.
Any man who shall rebel against thy bidding, and not hearken unto thy words in all that thou shalt command him, shall be put to death,—only be firm and bold.