Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered, and said,
Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself.
Is it any pleasure to the Almighty that thou are righteous? Or is it gain to him that thou make thy ways perfect?
Is it for thy fear of him that he reproves thee, that he enters with thee into judgment?
Is not thy wickedness great? Neither is there any end to thine iniquities.
For thou have taken pledges from thy brother for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing.
Thou have not given water to the weary to drink, and thou have withheld bread from the hungry.
But as for the mighty man, he had the land. And the honorable man, he dwelt in it.
Thou have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubles thee,
or darkness, so that thou cannot see, and abundance of waters cover thee.
Is not God in the height of heaven? And behold the height of the stars, how high they are!
And thou say, What does God know? Can he judge through the thick darkness?
Thick clouds are a covering to him, so that he does not see, and he walks on the vault of heaven.
Will thou keep the old way which wicked men have trodden?
Who were snatched away before their time, whose foundation was poured out as a stream,
who said to God, Depart from us, and, What can the Almighty do for us?
Yet he filled their houses with good things. But the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
The righteous see it, and are glad. And the innocent laugh them to scorn,
Saying, Surely those who rose up against us are cut off, and the remnant of them, the fire has consumed.
Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace. By this good shall come to thee.
Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his words in thy heart.
If thou return to the Almighty, thou shall be built up, thou put away unrighteousness far from thy tents.
Then thou shall lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as the stones of the brooks.
Yea, the Almighty will be thy treasure, and precious silver to thee.
For then shall thou delight thyself in the Almighty, and shall lift up thy face to God.
Thou shall make thy prayer to him, and he will hear thee, and thou shall pay thy vows.
Thou shall also decree a thing, and it shall be established to thee. And light shall shine upon thy ways.
When they cast thee down, thou shall say, There is lifting up, and he will save the humble man.
He will deliver even him who is not innocent. Yea, he shall be delivered through the cleanness of thy hands.