Become ye therefore imitators of God, as beloved children.
And walk in love, as also the Christ loved us, and delivered himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a fragrant aroma.
But fornication, and all uncleanness, or greed, shall not even be named among you as befits the sanctified,
also indecency, and foolish talking or jesting, things not befitting, but thankfulness instead.
For ye are men who know this, that no fornicator, or unclean man, or covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of the Christ and God.
Let no man deceive you by empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.
Do not become ye therefore partakers with them.
For ye were once darkness, but now light in the Lord. Walk as children of light
(for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
proving what is acceptable to the Lord.
And do not associate with the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead even rebuke them.
For it is disgusting even to speak of the things happening by them secretly.
But all things exposed are revealed by the light, for everything that is seen is light.
Therefore he says, Awake, thou who sleep. And arise from the dead, and the Christ will shine upon thee.
Therefore watch carefully how ye walk, not as unwise but as wise,
redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
Because of this do not become foolish, but understanding what is the will of the Lord.
And do not become intoxicated with wine, during which is debauchery, but be filled in Spirit,
speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and striking strings in your heart to the Lord,
expressing thanks always for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to the God and Father,
submitting yourselves to each other in the fear of Christ.
Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord.
Because a husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church, and himself the savior of the body.
But as the church is subject to the Christ, so also the wives to their own husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your own wives even as Christ also loved the church, and delivered himself up for it,
so that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it with the washing of water by the word,
so that he might present it to himself, the glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and unblemished.
So ought the husbands to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself.
For no man ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as also Christ the church,
because we are parts of his body, of his flesh and of his bones.
Separate from this a man will leave his father and mother behind, and will be bonded with his wife, and the two will be in one flesh.
This mystery is great, but I speak for Christ and for the church.
Nevertheless ye also, each one in particular, shall so love his own wife as himself, and the wife that she fear her husband.