And when he completed all his sayings in the ears of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
And a certain centurion's bondman faring badly was going to perish, who was esteemed by him.
And having heard about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to him who asked him that, having come, he would save his bondman.
And when they came to Jesus they urged him earnestly, saying, He is worthy for whom thou may offer this,
for he loves our nation, and he himself built the synagogue for us.
And Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far distant from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, Lord, be not troubled, for I am not worthy that thou should come under my roof.
Therefore neither did I consider myself worthy to come to thee, but speak by word, and my boy will be healed.
For I also am a man set under authority, having soldiers under myself. And I say to this man, Go, and he goes, and to another, Come, and he comes, and to my bondman, Do this, and he does.
And when Jesus heard these things, he marveled him, and having turned around to the multitude who followed him, he said, I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith.
And those who were sent, having returned to the house, found the bondman who was feeble, being well.
And it came to pass on the next day that he went to a city called Nain, and a considerable number of his disciples went with him, also a large multitude.
Now when he came near to the gate of the city, behold, an only begotten son who died was being carried out for his mother. And she was a widow, and a considerable crowd of the city was with her.
And when the Lord saw her, he felt compassion toward her, and said to her, Weep not.
And having come, he touched the coffin, and the men carrying it stood still. And he said, Young man, I say to thee, arise.
And the dead man sat up, and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother.
And fear seized all. And they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has been raised among us, and, God came to help his people.
And this report about him went forth in the whole of Judea, and in all the region around.
And the disciples of John informed him about all these things.
And having summoned a certain two of his disciples, John sent them to Jesus, saying, Are thou he who comes, or do we look for another man?
And when they came to him, they said, John the immerser has sent us to thee, saying, Are thou he who comes, or do we look for another man?
And in the same hour he healed many from diseases and plagues and evil spirits. And he granted sight to many blind men.
And having answered, Jesus said to them, After going, report to John the things that ye saw and heard: the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor are preached good news.
And blessed is he, whoever will not be offended by me.
And after John's messengers departed, he began to say to the multitudes about John, What did ye go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
But what did ye go out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, those in elegant clothing, and existing in luxury, are in kingly places.
But what did ye go out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say to you, and much more than a prophet.
This is he about whom it is written, Behold, I send my agent before thy face, who will prepare thy way before thee.
For I say to you, among men born of women there is not one prophet greater than John the immerser, yet the smaller in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
And all the people having heard, and the tax collectors who were immersed the immersion of John, justified God.
But the Pharisees and the lawyers who were not immersed by him, rejected the purpose of God for themselves.
To what, then will I compare the men of this generation, and to what are they like?
They are like children sitting in the marketplace, and calling to each other, and saying, We piped to you, and ye did not dance. We mourned to you, and ye did not weep.
For John the immerser has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and ye say, He has a demon.
The Son of man has come eating and drinking, and ye say, Behold the man, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!
And wisdom is justified from all her children.
And a certain man of the Pharisees asked him that he would eat with him. And having entered into the Pharisee's house, he sat down.
And behold, a woman in the city who was sinful. And when she knew that he sat in the Pharisee's house, having brought an alabaster cruse of ointment,
and having stood behind near his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with the tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head. And she kissed his feet much, and anointed them with the ointment.
But when the Pharisee who invited him saw it, he spoke within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would know who and what kind the woman is who touches him, that she is sinful.
And having responded, Jesus said to him, Simon, I have something to say to thee. And he says, speak Teacher.
There were two debtors to a certain creditor, the one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
And of them not having to repay, he forgave them both. Which of them therefore, do thou say, will love him more?
And having answered, Simon said, I suppose that it was to whom he forgave more. And he said to him, Thou have judged correctly.
And having turned to the woman, he said to Simon, See thou this woman? I entered into thy house; thou gave no water for my feet. But this woman has wet my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.
Thou gave me no kiss, but this woman, since I came in, has not ceased kissing my feet much.
Thou did not anoint my head with olive oil, but this woman has anointed my feet with ointment.
For this reason I say to thee, her many sins are forgiven, because she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, loves little.
And he said to her, Thy sins are forgiven.
And those who sat together began to say within themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins?
And he said to the woman, Thy faith has saved thee. Go in peace.