If therefore ye were raised with the Christ, seek the things above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God.
Think on the things above, not the things on the earth.
For ye died, and your life has been hidden with the Christ in God.
When the Christ, our life, is made known, then ye also will be made known with him in glory.
Put to death therefore your body-parts on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and greed, which is idolatry.
Because of which the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience,
in which ye also once walked when ye lived in them.
But now ye also, put off all these things: anger, wrath, wickedness, reviling, filthy speaking out of your mouth.
Do not lie to each other, having stripped off the old man with his practices,
and having put on the new man, being renewed in knowledge according to an image of him who created him,
where there is no Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondman, freeman, but the all and in all, Christ.
Put on therefore, as chosen men of God, holy and beloved, bowels of compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, longsuffering,
forbearing each other, and forgiving yourselves, if any man has a complaint against any, just as also the Christ forgave you, so also ye,
and above all these things, love, which is the bond of perfection.
And let the peace of God umpire in your hearts, for which also ye were called in one body, and become thankful.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you abundantly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing by grace in your hearts to God.
And all things, anything whatever ye may do in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, expressing thanks to the God and Father through him.
Wives, be ye submissive to your own husbands as is proper in the Lord.
Husbands, love the wives and do not be made bitter against them.
Children, obey the parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing in the Lord.
Fathers, do not provoke your children, so that they may not be discouraged.
Bondmen, obey in all things those masters according to flesh, not in eye-service as men-pleasers, but in simplicity of heart, fearing God.
And all things, anything whatever ye may do, work from soul as to the Lord and not to men,
knowing that from the Lord ye will receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ.
And he who does wrong will be recompensed what he did wrong, and there is no partiality.