But I determined this with myself, that I would not come again to you in heaviness.
For if I make you sorry, who is he then that makes me glad, but the same which is made sorry by me?
And I wrote this same unto you, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all.
For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears; not that all of you should be grieved, but that all of you might know the love (o. agape) which I have more abundantly unto you.
But if any have caused grief, he has not grieved me, but in part: that I may not burden you all.
Sufficient to such a man is this punishment, which was inflicted of many.
So that contrariwise all of you ought rather to forgive him, and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow.
Wherefore I plead to you that all of you would confirm your love (o. agape) toward him.
In order to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether all of you be obedient in all things.
To whom all of you forgive any thing, I forgive also: for if I forgave any thing, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it in the person of Christ;
Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for we are not ignorant of his devices.
Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ's gospel, and a door was opened unto me of the Lord,
I had no rest in my spirit, (o. pneuma) because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went from thence into Macedonia.
Now thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ, and makes manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in every place.
For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them that are saved, and in them that perish:
To the one we are the savour of death unto death; and to the other the savour of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
For we are not as many, which corrupt the word (o. logos) of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in Christ.