And it happened in Iconium, they went in together into the synagogue of the Jews, and spoke so as for a huge multitude of both Jews and Greeks to believe.
But the unbelieving Jews raised up and made malignant the souls of the nations against the brothers.
Then, indeed, they stayed a considerable time, speaking boldly on the Lord, witnessing to the Word of His grace, and He giving miracles and wonders to occur through their hands.
And the multitude of the city was divided; and some were with the Jews, but others with the apostles.
And when a rush of the nations occurred, and both the Jews and their rulers came to insult and to stone them,
perceiving this , they fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the surrounding country.
And they were announcing the gospel there.
And a certain man was sitting in Lystra, powerless in the feet, being lame from his mother's womb, who had never walked.
This one heard Paul speaking, who, looking intently at him, and seeing that he had faith to be cured,
he said with a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet! And he leaped up and walked about.
And seeing what Paul did, the crowd lifted up their voice in Lycaonian, saying, The gods have come down to us, becoming like men.
And they called Barnabas, Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the leader in speaking.
And the priest of Zeus being before their city, carrying bulls and garlands to the gates, he wished to sacrifice along with the crowds.
But Paul and Barnabas, the apostles, hearing, tearing their garments, they sprang into the crowd, crying out,
and saying, Men, why do you do these things? We also are men of like feelings to you, announcing the gospel to you to turn you from these vanities to the living God, who "made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all things in them," Ex. 20:11
who in the generations which have passed allowed all the nations to go in their own ways,
though indeed He did not leave Himself without witness, doing good, giving rain and fruitful seasons to us from heaven, filling our hearts with food and gladness.
And saying these things, they hardly stopped the crowds, that they not sacrifice to them.
But Jews came there from Antioch and Iconium, and persuading the crowds, and stoning Paul, they dragged him outside the city, supposing him to have died.
But the disciples surrounding him, arising he entered into the city. And on the morrow he went away with Barnabas to Derbe.
And having announced the gospel to that city, and having made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and Iconium and Antioch,
confirming the souls of the disciples, exhorting to continue in the faith, and that through many afflictions we must enter into the kingdom of God.
And having handpicked elders for them in every church, having prayed with fastings, they committed them to the Lord into whom they had believed.
And passing through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
And speaking the Word in Perga, they came down to Attalia,
and from there they sailed to Antioch, from where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled.
And having arrived, and gathering the church, they reported what things God did with them and that He opened a door of faith to the nations.
And they remained there not a little time with the disciples.