I made a covenant with mine eyes; How then could I gaze upon a maid?
For what is the portion appointed by God from above, And the inheritance allotted by the Almighty from on high?
Is not destruction for the wicked, And ruin for the workers of iniquity?
Doth He not see my ways, And number all my steps?
If I have walked with falsehood, And if my foot hath hasted to deceit,
Let him weigh me in an even balance; Yea, let God know my integrity!
If my steps have turned aside from the way, And my heart gone after mine eyes, Or if any stain hath cleaved to my hand,
Then I may sow, and another eat; And what I plant, may it be rooted up!
If my heart hath been enticed by a woman, Or if I have watched at my neighbor’s door,
Then let my wife grind for another, And let other men lie with her!
For this were a heinous crime, Even a transgression to be punished by the judges;
Yea, it were a fire that would consume to destruction, And root out all my increase.
If I have refused justice to my man-servant or maid-servant, When they had a controversy with me,
Then what shall I do when God riseth up? And when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?
Did not He that made me in the womb make him? Did not one fashion us in the womb?
If I have refused the poor their desire, And caused the eyes of the widow to fail;
If I have eaten my morsel alone, And the fatherless hath not partaken of it;
(Nay, from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, And I have helped the widow from my mother’s womb;)
If I have seen any one perishing for want of clothing, Or any poor man without covering;
If his loins have not blessed me, And he hath not been warmed with the fleece of my sheep;
If I have shaken my hand against the fatherless, Because I saw my help in the gate,—
Then may my shoulder fill from its blade, And my fore-arm be broken from its bone!
For destruction from God was a terror to me, And before his majesty I could do nothing.
If I have made gold my trust, Or said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence;
If I have rejoiced, because my wealth was great, And my hand had found abundance;
If I have beheld the sun in his splendor, Or the moon advancing in brightness,
And my heart hath been secretly enticed, And my mouth hath kissed my hand,
This also were a crime to be punished by the judge; For I should have denied the God who is above.
If I have rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, And exulted when evil came upon him;
(Nay, I have not suffered my mouth to sin, By asking with curses his life;)
If the men of my tent have not exclaimed, "Who is there that hath not been satisfied with his meat?"
The stranger did not lodge in the street; I opened my doors to the traveller.
Have I, after the manner of men, hidden my transgression, Concealing my iniquity in my bosom,
Then let me be confounded before the great multitude! Let the contempt of families cover me with shame! Yea, let me keep silence! let me never appear abroad!
O that there were one who would hear me! Behold my signature! let the Almighty answer me. And let mine adversary write down his charge!
Truly I would wear it upon my shoulder; I would bind it upon me as a crown.
I would disclose to him all my steps; I would approach him like a prince.
If my land cry out against me, And its furrows bewail together;
If I have eaten of its fruits without payment, And wrung out the life of its owners,
Let thorns grow up instead of wheat, And noxious weeds instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.