And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spoke that a great multitude of the Jews and Greeks believed.
But the unbelieving Jews excited and embittered the minds of the Gentiles against the brethren.
Therefore, they continued a long time, and spoke boldly in the Lord, who gave testimony to the word of his grace, by granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
But the multitude of the city were divided; and some were with the Jews, and some with the apostles.
But when there was a violent purpose on the part of the Gentiles and of the Jews, with their rulers, to outrage and to stone them,
being aware of it, they fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra, and Derbe, and to the region round about,
and there they preached the gospel.
And there was a certain man in Lystra, without strength in his feet, who sat, for he was a cripple from his mother’s womb, and had never walked.
This man heard Paul speak, who, looking earnestly on him, and seeing that he had faith to be saved,
said, with a loud voice: Stand erect upon your feet. And he leaped and walked.
When the multitude saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice, and said, in the Lycaonian language: The Gods have come down to us in the likeness of men.
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter, and Paul, Mercury, for he was the chief speaker.
Then the priest of Jupiter, whose temple was before the city, having brought bulls and garlands to the entrance, intended to offer sacrifice, with the multitudes.
But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the multitude, crying out,
and saying: Men, why are you doing these things? We also are human beings, with passions like your own, and we preach the gospel to you, that you may turn from these vanities to the living God, who made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all things that are in them;
who, in past generations, permitted all the nations to walk in their own ways;
and yet he did not leave himself without testimony, doing good, and giving you rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and gladness.
And with these words they hardly restrained the multitudes from offering sacrifice to them.
Then came thither, from Antioch and Iconium, Jews, who persuaded the multitudes; and having stoned Paul, they dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead.
But while the disciples were standing around him, he arose, and went into the city.   And on the next day, he departed with Barnabas to Derbe;
and when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antioch,
strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying, that through many afflictions we mast enter the kingdom of God.
And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, with prayer and fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed.
And having passed through Pisidia, they came into Pamphylia;
and when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia:
thence they sailed to Antioch, from which place they had been commended to the grace of God, for the work which they had accomplished.
And having come and called together the church, they reported all that God had done with them, and that he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles.
And they continued a long time with the disciples.