Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, that they turn back and encamp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea,—before Baal-zephon, over against it, shall ye encamp, by the sea.
Then will Pharaoh say, of the sons of Israel, Entangled, they are in the land,—the desert hath closed in upon them.
So will I let the heart of Pharaoh wax bold, and he will pursue them, that I may get me honour over Pharaoh, and over all his forces, and the Egyptians shall know, that I, am Yahweh. And they did so.
And it was told the king of Egypt, that the people had fled,—and the heart of Pharaoh and his servants was turned against the people, and they said—What is this we have done, that we have let Israel go from serving us?
So he yoked his chariot,—and his people, took he with him.
And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt,—with warriors in every one.
And Yahweh let the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt wax bold, and he pursued the sons of Israel,—when the sons of Israel, were going out with a high hand.
So the Egyptians pursued them and overtook them, encamping by the sea—all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his forces,—by Pi-hahiroth, before Baal-zephon.
Now when, Pharaoh, had drawn near, the sons of Israel lifted up their eyes, and lo! the Egyptians, moving along after them and they feared greatly, and the sons of Israel made outcry unto Yahweh.
Then said they unto Moses, Was it because there were no graves in Egypt, that thou didst fetch us to die in the desert? What is this thou hast done to us, bringing us forth out of Egypt?
Is not this the word which we spake unto thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians,—for it is better for us, to serve the Egyptians, than to die in the desert?
And Moses said unto the people—Do not fear, stand still and see the salvation of Yahweh, which he will work for you to-day,—for as for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to-day, ye shall not again see them any more to times age-abiding.
Yahweh, will fight for you,—and, ye, shall forbear.
And Yahweh said unto Moses, What outcry wouldst thou make unto me? Speak unto the sons of Israel, that they go forward;
and, thou, lift high thy staff and stretch forth thy hand over the sea and cleave it asunder,—that the sons of Israel may enter into the midst of the sea on dry ground;
and, I, behold me letting the heart of the Egyptians wax bold, that they may enter after them,—that I may get me honour over Pharaoh and over his forces, over his chariots, and over his horsemen,
And the Egyptians shall know, that, I, am Yahweh,—when I have gotten me honour over Pharaoh, over his chariots and over his horsemen.
And the messenger of God who was going on before the camp of Israel removed, and came on behind them,—and the pillar of cloud removed from before them, and stood behind them;
so it came in between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel, so it became a cloud and darkness, and yet lighted up the night,—so that the one came not near unto the other, all the night.
And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and Yahweh carried away the sea by a mighty east wind all the night, and turned the sea into dry land,—and the waters were cloven asunder.
Then went the sons of Israel into the midst of the sea on the dry ground,—and, the waters, to them, were a wall, on their right hand and on their left.
And the Egyptians pursued, and entered after them—all the horses of Pharaoh his chariots and his horsemen,—into the midst of the sea.
And it came to pass in the morning watch, that Yahweh looked down into the camp of the Egyptians, through the pillar of fire and cloud, and confused the camp of the Egyptians;
and he took off the wheels of their chariots, and made them drive heavily,—so that the Egyptians said—We must flee from the face of Israel, for Yahweh, is fighting for them against the Egyptians.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses, Stretch forth thy hand over the sea,—that the waters may return upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen.
So Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea and the sea returned, towards morning, to its steady flow, when the Egyptians, were fleeing to meet it,—thus Yahweh shook off the Egyptians into the midst of the sea;
thus the waters returned and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, even all the forces of Pharaoh that were entering after them into the sea,—there was not left remaining among them so much as one.
But the sons of Israel, had gone their way on dry ground in the saidst of the sea,—and the waters had been to them a wall, on their right hand and on their left.
Thus did Yahweh, on that day, save Israel, out of the hand of the Egyptians,—and Israel saw the Egyptians, dead on the shore of the sea.
And when Israel saw the mighty hand wherewith Yahweh had wrought against the Egyptians, then did the people revere Yahweh,—and they put their trust in Yahweh, and in Moses, his servant.