And there came two angels to Sodom at evening. And Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. And Lot rose up to meet them when he saw them. And he bowed himself with his face toward the ground,
and said, Behold now, my lords, please turn into your servant's house and stay all night, and wash your feet, and you shall rise up early and go your way. And they said, No, but we will stay in the street.
But he urgently pressed on them, and they turned in to him and entered into his house. And he made them a feast, and baked unleavened bread, and they ate.
But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, surrounded the house, both old and young, all the people from every quarter.
And they called to Lot, and said to him, Where are the men which came in to you this night? Bring them out to us, that we may know them.
And Lot went out to the door to them, and shut the door after him.
And he said, I pray you, brothers, do not act evilly.
Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man. I pray you, let me bring them out to you, and you do to them as you see fit. But do nothing to these men, for this is why they came under the shadow of my roof.
And they said, Stand back! And they said, This one came in to stay, and must he judge always? Now we will deal worse with you than with them. And they pressed hard upon the man, Lot, and came near to breaking the door.
But the men put out their hands and pulled Lot into the house to them, and shut the door.
And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves to find the door.
And the men said to Lot, Have you anyone here besides yourself? Bring your sons-in-law, and your sons, and your daughters, and whatever you have in the city, bring them out of this place.
For we will destroy this place because great is the cry of them before the face of the LORD. And the LORD has sent us to destroy it.
And Lot went out and spoke with his sons-in-law, who married his daughters, and said, Get up and get out of this place, for the LORD will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked to his sons-in-law.
And when the dawn rose up, then the angels hurried Lot, saying, Rise up! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be consumed in the iniquity of the city.
And he lingered, the angel laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters (the LORD being merciful to him), and they brought him forth and set him outside the city.
And it happened when they brought him outside, He said, Escape for your life! Do not look behind you, nor stay in all the plain. Escape to the mountain lest you be consumed.
And Lot said to them, Oh no, Lord,
behold now, Your servant has found grace in Your sight, and You have magnified Your mercy, which You have shown to me in saving my life. And I cannot escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me and I die.
Behold now, this city is near to flee to, and it is a little one. Oh let me escape there (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall live.
And He said to him, See, I have accepted you concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow this city for which you have spoken.
Hurry and escape there! For I cannot do anything till you have come there. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.
The sun had risen upon the earth, and Lot entered into Zoar.
Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire, from the LORD out of the heavens.
And He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.
But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
And Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the LORD.
And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the lands of the plain, and saw, and, lo, the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.
And when God destroyed the cities of the plain, it happened that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when He overthrew the cities in which Lot lived.
And Lot went up out of Zoar, and lived in the mountain, and his two daughters with him. For he feared to live in Zoar, and he and his two daughters lived in a cave.
And the first-born said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is no man in the earth to come in to us in the way of all the earth.
Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, so that we may preserve seed of our father.
And they made their father drink wine that night. And the first-born went in, and lay with her father. And he did not notice when she lay down nor when she arose.
And it happened on the next day, the first-born said to the younger, Behold, I lay last night with my father. Let us make him drink wine this night also, and you go in and lie down with him so that we may preserve seed of our father.
And they made their father drink wine that night also, and the younger arose and lay with him. And he did not notice when she lay down nor when she arose.
So both the daughters of Lot were with child by their father.
And the first-born bore a son, and called his name Moab. He is the father of the Moabites to this day.
And the younger also bore a son, and called his name Ben-ammi; he is the father of the sons of Ammon to this day.