And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
And I saw the seven angels that stood before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
And another angel came, and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and much incense was given to him, that he might offer it with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar that is before the throne.
And the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, ascended before God out of the hand of the angel.
And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it into the earth; and there were voices and thunderings and lightnings and an earthquake.
And the seven angels that had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
And the first angel sounded; and there were hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were thrown into the earth: and the third part of the earth was burned up, and the third part of the trees was burned up, and all the green grass was burned up.
And the second angel sounded; and, as it were, a great mountain, burning with fire, was thrown into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood.
And the third part of the creatures that were in the sea, that had life, died: and the third part of the ships was destroyed.
And the third angel sounded; and there fell from heaven a great star, that burned as a lamp; and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters.
And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and the third part of the waters became wormwood: and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
And the fourth angel sounded; and the third part of the sun, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars was smitten, that the third part might be darkened, and that the day might not shine for the third part of it, and the night in like manner.
And I saw, and heard an eagle, as he flew in mid-heaven, saying, with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth, because of the remaining voices of the trumpets of the three angels which are yet to sound.