And the sons of Reuben, the first-born of Israel (for he was the first-born; but since he defiled his father's bed, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, and the genealogy is not to be counted according to the birthright;
For Judah prevailed among his brothers, and from him came the chief ruler, but the birthright was Joseph's);
the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away. He was ruler of the men of Reuben.
And his brothers by their families, in the genealogy of their generations: Jeiel the chief, and Zechariah,
and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who lived in Aroer, even to Nebo and Baal-meon.
And he lived as far to the east as the entrance of the wilderness from the river Euphrates, because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead.
And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, who fell by their hand. And they lived in their tents throughout all the east land of Gilead.
And the sons of Gad lived opposite them, in the land of Bashan to Salchah
Joel the chief, and Shapham the next, and Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
And their brothers from the house of their fathers: Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber, seven.
These are the sons of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz,
Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of the house of their fathers.
And they lived in Gilead in Bashan, and in her towns, and in all the open lands of Sharon, on their borders.
All these were counted by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.
The sons of Reuben, and the sons of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh, (sons of valor, men lifting up shield and sword, and to shoot with bow, and skillful in war), were forty-four thousand, seven hundred and sixty who went out to the war.
And they made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, and Nephish, and Nodab.
And they were helped against them, and the Hagarites were delivered into their hand, and all who were with them. For they cried to God in the battle, and He was pleased to hear them, because they put their trust in Him.
And they took away their cattle: of their camels, fifty thousand; and of sheep, two hundred fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand, and of men a hundred thousand.
For many fell down slain, because the war was of God. And they lived in their places until the captivity.
And the sons of the half tribe of Manasseh lived in the land. They increased from Bashan to Baal-hermon and Senir, and to Mount Hermon.
And these were the heads of the house of their fathers, even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of war, famous men, heads of the house of their fathers.
And they sinned against the God of their fathers, and went lusting after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed before them.
And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria. And he exiled them, the people of Reuben and the people of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, and brought them to Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and to the river Gozan, to this day.