And the lot for the tribe of the sons of Judah for their families was to the border of Edom, the wilderness of Zin southward, in the extreme south.
And their south border was from the end of the Salt Sea, from the bay that looked southward.
And it went out southward to the ascent of Akrabbim, and passed on to Zin, and went up on the south of Kadesh-barnea, and passed to Hezron, and went up toward Adar, and turned toward Karkaa,
and passed on to Azmon, and went out by the torrent of Egypt; and the boundary line was at the sea. This shall be your south border.
And the east border was the Salt Sea to the end of the Jordan; and the border on the north side was from the bay of the sea at the end of the Jordan.
And the border went up to Beth-hoglah, and passed on the north of Beth-arabah; and the border went up to the stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben;
And the border went up toward Debir from the valley of Achor, and northward looking toward Gilgal, which is opposite to the ascent of Adummim, which is the south side of the torrent; and the border passed to the waters of En-shemesh, and its boundary line was at Enrogel.
And the border went up to the valley of the son of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite on the south (it is Jerusalem) and the border went up to the top of the mountain which is before the valley of Hinnom westward at the far end of the Valley of the Giants northward.
And the border was drawn from the top of the mount to the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah; and it went up to the cities of Mount Ephron; and the border was drawn to Baalah (it is Kirjath-jearim).
And the border turned around from Baalah westward to Mount Seir, and passed toward the side of Mount Jearim on the north (it is Chesalon) and went down to Beth-shemesh, and passed along by Timnah;
and the border went out to the side of Ekron northward; and the border was drawn to Shikkeron, and passed along to Mount Baalah, and went out to Jabneel. And the boundary line was at the Sea.
And the west border was to the Great Sea, and its coast. This is the border of the sons of Judah all around, for their families.
And he gave a portion to Caleb the son of Jephunneh among the sons of Judah, according to the command of Jehovah to Joshua: the City of Arba, the father of Anak; it is Hebron.
And Caleb expelled from there the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai, the sons of Anak.
And he went up there to the inhabitants of Debir; and the name of Debir formerly was the City of Sepher.
And Caleb said, He who strikes the City of Sepher, and captures it, I shall give my daughter Achsah to him for a wife.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, captured it. And He gave his daughter Achsah to him for a wife.
And it happened, as she came, that she persuaded him to ask from her father a field. And she dismounted from the ass, and Caleb said to her, What do you desire ?
And she said, Give a blessing to me. You have given me the land of the south, then you shall give to me springs of water. And he gave to her the upper springs and the lower springs.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah, for their families:
And the cities at the furthest border of the tribe of the sons of Judah were to the border of Edom in the south: Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,
and Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,
and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,
Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth,
and Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, and Hezron, which is Hazor,
Amam, and Shema, and Moladah,
and Hazar-gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-palet,
and Hazar-shual and Beersheba and Bizjothjah,
Baalah, and Iim, and Azem,
and Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,
and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah,
and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon. All the cities are twenty nine and their villages.
In the Lowlands were : Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,
and Zanoah, and En-gannim, Tappuah, and Enam,
Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah,
and Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederoth-aim fourteen cities and their villages;
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad,
and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,
Lachish and Bozkath, and Eglon,
and Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish,
and Gederoth, Beth-dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah, sixteen cities and their villages;
Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan,
and Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,
and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities and their villages
Ekron with its daughter-villages;
from Ekron even to the sea, all that were at hand by Ashdod, and their villages;
Ashdod with its daughter-villages; Gaza with its daughter-villages, to the river of Egypt, and the Great Sea, and its coast.
And in the hills: Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh,
and Dannah, and Kirjath-sannah, which is Debir,
and Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim,
and Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities and their villages,
Arab and Dumah, and Eshean,
and Janum, and Beth-tappuah, and Aphekah,
and Humtah, and the City of Arba, which is Hebron, and Zior; nine cities and their villages,
Maon, Carmel and Ziph, and Juttah,
and Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,
Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities and their villages;
Halhul, Beth-zur, and Gedor,
and Maarath, and Beth-anoth, and Eltekon; six cities and their villages;
Kirjath-baal, which is Kirjath-jearim, and Rabbah; two cities and their villages.
In the wilderness, Beth-arabah, Middin, and Secacah,
and Nibshan, and the city of Salt, and En-gedi; six cities and their villages.
As for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the sons of Judah could not drive them out. But the Jebusites dwell with the sons of Judah at Jerusalem to this day.