And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, When you have come into the land of Canaan, this is the land which falls to you by inheritance, the land of Canaan, by its borders:
And your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin, along by the hand of Edom, and it shall be to you a south border from the end of the Salt Sea, eastward.
And the border shall turn around to you from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim, and shall pass on to Zin, and its end shall be from the south to Kadesh-barnea; and it shall go out at Hazar-addar, and it shall pass on to Azmon.
And the border shall turn from Azmon to the torrent of Egypt, and its border shall be at the sea.
As to the western border, even the Great Sea shall be a border to you; this is your western border.
And this is your northern border: from the Great Sea you shall mark out for yourselves Mount Hor;
from Mount Hor you shall mark out a line to the entrance to Hamath; and the edge of the border shall be at Zedad.
And the border shall go forth to Ziphron, and the edge of it shall be at Hazar-enan; this shall be your northern border.
And you shall mark out your line for the eastern border from Hazar-enan to Shepham.
And the border shall go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of Ain; and the border shall go down and shall reach on the shoulder of the Sea of Chinnereth eastward.
And the border shall go down to the Jordan, and the end of it shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land according to its borders all around.
And Moses commanded the sons of Israel, saying, This is the land which you shall receive as inheritance by lot, which Jehovah has commanded to give to the nine tribes and the half tribe:
For the tribe of the sons of Reuben according to their fathers' houses, and the tribe of the sons of Gad according to their fathers' houses have received; and the half tribe of Manasseh shall have received their inheritance.
The two tribes and the half tribe shall have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan at Jericho eastward, toward the sunrising.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
These are the names of the men that shall take possession of the land for you: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
And you shall take one ruler of every tribe, to take possession of the land.
And these are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh;
and of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud;
of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon;
and of the tribe of the sons of Dan, Bukki the ruler, son of Jogli;
of the sons of Joseph, of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, Hanniel the ruler, the son of Ephod;
and of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim, Kemuel the ruler, the son of Shiphtan;
and of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, Elizaphan the ruler, the son of Parnach;
and of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, Paltiel the ruler, the son of Azzan;
and of the tribe of the sons of Asher, Ahihud the ruler, the son of Shelomi;
and of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, Pedahel the ruler, the son of Ammihud.
these are the ones whom Jehovah commanded to divide the land to the sons of Israel in the land of Canaan.