REBUKE not harshly an aged man, but admonish him as a father; the younger men as brethren;
the aged women as mothers; the younger as sisters, with all purity.
Honour the widows, that are widows indeed.
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn as their first duty to shew their piety towards their own family, and make a grateful return to their progenitors: for this is becoming and acceptable before God.
But she who is a widow indeed, and abandoned to solitude, hopeth in God, and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day.
But she who lives voluptuously is dead, though she liveth.
And these things inculcate, that they may be blameless.
But if any man provide not for his own relations, and especially for those more immediately of his own family, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.
Let no widow be put on the list under sixty years of age, who hath been the wife of one husband,
bringing attestation of her good works; that she hath well educated her children, that she hath been hospitable to strangers, that she hath washed the saints feet, that she hath assisted the afflicted, that she hath followed diligently every good work.
But the younger widows reject: for when they give themselves to wantonness contrary to Christ, they will marry;
incurring censure, for having violated their former engagement.
And at the same time also they learn to be idle, visiting about in the houses; and not merely idle, but talkative and inquisitive, speaking things they ought not.
I would therefore have the younger widows to marry, bear children, govern their house, give no occasion to the adversary to bring a reproach on them.
For some are already turned aside after Satan.
But if any man or woman who believes hath widows their relations, let him provide for them, and let not the church be burdened; that there may be a sufficiency for the real widows.
Let the elders who preside properly be counted worthy of double honour, especially those who are laborious in preaching and teaching.
For the Scripture saith, “Thou shalt not muzzle the ox while he treadeth out the corn.” And again, “The labourer is worthy of his hire.”
Against a presbyter receive not an accusation, except it be from two or three witnesses.
Those who sin rebuke before all, that the rest also may tremble.
I adjure thee before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing by partiality.
Lay hands hastily on no man, nor share another’s sins: keep thyself pure;
confine thyself no longer to water-drinking; but use a little wine for thy stomach’s sake, and thy frequent indispositions.
Some men’s sins are glaringly manifest, going before to judgment; and after others also they follow to detection.
In like manner also the good works of some are previously manifest; and it is not possible that what they have besides should be concealed.