Thou shalt not see the ox of thy brother or his sheep, going astray, and turn away from them,—thou shalt, bring them back unto thy brother.
And, if thy brother be not nigh unto thee or thou know him not, then shalt thou make room for it within thee own shed and it shall be with thee, until thy brother seek after it, when thou shalt return it unto him.
And, so, shalt thou do with his ass, and, so, shalt thou do with his mantle and, so, shalt thou do with any lost thing of thy brother’s, which shall go astray from him and thou shalt find,—thou mayest not turn away.
Thou shalt not see the ass of thy brother or his ox fallen in the way, and turn away from them,—thou shalt, raise, them with him.
A woman shall not have on the wearing apparel of a man, nor shall a man put on the mantle of a woman; for an abomination to Yahweh thy God, is any one who doeth these things.
When a bird’s-nest chanceth to be before thee,—in the way, in any tree or upon the ground, whether with nestlings or eggs, and, the mother, be sitting upon the nestlings or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the mother upon the young;
thou shalt, let go, the mother, and then, her young, mayest thou take for thyself,—that it may go well with thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days.
When thou buildest a new house, then shalt thou make a parapet to thy roof, so shalt thou not treasure up blood-guiltiness against thy house, for he that is in danger of falling might fall therefrom.
Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with two sorts of seed,—lest the fulness of the seed which thou sowest, and the increase of thy vineyard be profaned.
Thou shalt not plough with an ox and an ass together,
Thou shalt not put on linsey-woolsey, of wool and flax together.
Tassels, shalt thou make thee,—on the four corners of thy vesture, wherewith thou dost cover thyself.
When a man taketh a wife,—and goeth in unto her and hateth her;
and raiseth against her occasions of speech, and bringeth upon her an evil name, and saith—This woman, I took, and approached her, and found not that she had the tokens of virginity,
then shall the father of the damsel and her mother take and bring forth the tokens of the virginity of the damsel, unto the elders of the city, in the gate;
and the father of the damsel shall say unto the elders,—My daughter, gave I unto this man to wife and he hated her;
and lo! he, hath raised occasions of speech, saying—I found not that thy daughter had the tokens of virginity and yet, these, are the tokens of the virginity of my daughter. And they shall spread out the garment before the elders of the city.
Then shall the elders of that city take the man, and chastise him;
and fine him a hundred [shekels] of silver and give unto the father of the damsel, because he hath brought an evil name upon a virgin of Israel, and she shall remain his wife, he may not put her away, all his days.
But if this thing be true, and the tokens of virginity be not found with the damsel,
then shall they bring forth the damsel into the entrance of her father’s house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones that she die, because she hath wrought wickedness in Israel, by committing unchastity in her father’s house,—so shalt thou consume the wicked thing out of thy midst.
When a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, then shall, both, of them die, the man that lay with the woman, and the woman, so shalt thou consume the wicked thing out of Israel.
When a damsel that is a virgin is betrothed to a husband,—and a man findeth her in the city, and lieth with her,
then shall ye bring them, both, out unto the gate of that city, and stone them with stones that they die, the damsel, because she made not an outcry in the city, and the man because he hath humbled his neighbour’s wife,—so shalt thou consume the wicked thing out of thy midst.
But if in the field, the man find the betrothed damsel and the man force her and lie with her, then shall the man that lay with her die he alone;
but, unto the damsel, shalt thou do nothing, the damsel, is not guilty of a sin worthy of death, for as when a man riseth up against his neighbour, and smiteth him so as to take away life, so, is this matter;
for in the field, he found her,—the betrothed damsel, made an outcry, and there was none to save her.
When a man findeth a damsel that is a virgin who is not betrothed, and layeth hold of her and lieth with her, and they are found,
then shall the man who lay with her give unto the damsel’s father fifty shekels of silver,—and she shall be, his, wife, because he hath humbled her, he may not put her away, all his days.
A man shall not take his father’s wife,—neither shall he turn aside his father’s coverlet.