Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, of Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And sons were born to them after the flood.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
From these were the islands of the nations divided in their lands, every man according to his tongue, according to their families, in their nations.
And the sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba, and Dedan.
And Cush begot Nimrod. He began to be a mighty man on the earth.
He was a mighty hunter before Jehovah. Therefore it is said, Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before Jehovah.
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
He went forth out of that land into Assyria, and built Nineveh, and Rehoboth-ir, and Calah,
and Resen between Nineveh and Calah (the same is the great city).
And Mizraim begot Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
and Pathrusim, and Casluhim (from where the Philistines went forth), and Caphtorim.
And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn, and Heth,
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. And afterward the families of the Canaanite were spread abroad.
And the border of the Canaanite was from Sidon, as thou go toward Gerar, to Gaza, as thou go toward Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboiim, to Lasha.
These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.
And to Shem, the father of all the sons of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, sons were also born to him.
The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.
And the sons of Aram: Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
And Arphaxad begot Shelah, and Shelah begot Eber.
And to Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg. For in his days the earth was divided. And his brother's name was Joktan.
And Joktan begot Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou go toward Sephar, the mountain of the east.
These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, according to their nations.
These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, in their nations. And from these the nations were divided on the earth after the flood.