Let not your heart be troubled: all of you believe in God, believe also in me.
In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there all of you may be also.
And where I go all of you know, and the way all of you know.
Thomas says unto him, Lord, we know not where you go; and how can we know the way?
Jesus says unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man comes unto the Father, but by me.
If all of you had known me, all of you should have known my Father also: and from henceforth all of you know him, and have seen him.
Philip says unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it satisfies us.
Jesus says unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet have you not known me, Philip? he that has seen me has seen the Father; and how say you then, Show us the Father?
Believe you not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the (o. rhema) words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwells in me, he does the works.
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believes on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father.
And whatsoever all of you shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If all of you shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
If all of you love me, keep my commandments.
And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;
Even the Spirit (o. pneuma) of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it sees him not, neither knows him: but all of you know him; for he dwells with you, and shall be in you.
I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.
Yet a little while, and the world sees me no more; but all of you see me: because I live, all of you shall live also.
At that day all of you shall know that I am in my Father, and all of you in me, and I in you.
He that has my commandments, and keeps them, he it is that loves me: and he that loves me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
Judas says unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself unto us, and not unto the world?
Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: (o. logos) and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him.
He that loves me not keeps not my sayings: (o. logos) and the word (o. logos) which all of you hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me.
These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you.
But the Comforter, which is the Holy Spirit, (o. pneuma) whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world gives, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
All of you have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If all of you loved me, all of you would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it has come to pass, all of you might believe.
Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world comes, and has nothing in me.
But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go behind.