Jesus, therefore, six days before the passover, came unto Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from among the dead.
So they made for him a supper, there; and, Martha, was ministering, but, Lazarus, was one of them who were reclining with him.
Mary, therefore, taking a pound of pure nard perfume, very precious, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped, with her hair, his feet; and, the house, was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
[But] Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, he that was about to deliver him up, saith—
Why was, this perfume, not sold for three hundred denaries, and given unto the destitute?
Howbeit he said this, not that, for the destitute, he cared, but because, a thief, he was, and holding, the bag, used to carry away, what was cast therein.
Jesus, therefore, said—Let her alone, that, for the day of my burial, she may observe it;
For, the destitute, always, have ye with you, whereas, me, not always, have ye.
The great multitude of the Jews, therefore, got to know that he was, there, and came, not on account of Jesus only, but that, Lazarus also, they might see, whom he had raised from among the dead.
But the High-priests took counsel, that Lazarus also, they might put to death;
because, many of the Jews, by reason of him, were withdrawing, and believing on Jesus.
On the morrow, the great multitude that had come unto the feast, hearing that Jesus was coming into Jerusalem,
took the branches of the palm trees, and went out to meet him, and began crying aloud—Hosanna! Blessed is he that is coming in the name of the Lord,—even the King of Israel!
And Jesus, finding a young ass, took his seat thereon, just as it is written—
Do not fear, O daughter of Zion! Lo! thy king, cometh, sitting upon the colt of an ass.
These things, his disciples noticed not, at the first; but, when Jesus was glorified, then, remembered they that, these things, had, for him, been written,—and that, these things, they had done unto him.
The multitude, therefore, that was with him when he called, Lazarus, out of the tomb, and raised him from among the dead, was bearing witness.
On this account, the multitude met him also, because they heard that he had done, this sign.
the Pharisees, therefore, said among themselves—Ye observe that ye are profiting nothing: See! the world, after him, hath gone away.
Now there were certain Greeks, from among them who were coming up that they might worship in the feast.
These, therefore, came unto Philip, him who was from Bethsaida of Galilee,—and were requesting him, saying—Sir! We desire to see, Jesus.
Philip cometh, and telleth Andrew: Andrew and Philip come, and tell Jesus.
But, Jesus, answereth them, saying—The hour hath come, that the Son of Man should be glorified!
Verily! Verily, I say unto you: Except, the kernel of wheat, shall fall into the ground, and die, it, alone, abideth; but, if it die, much fruit, it beareth.
He that loveth his life, loseth it; but, he that hateth his life, in this world, unto life age-abiding, shall guard it.
If, with me, anyone be ministering, with me, let him be following; and, where, I, am, there, my minister also, shall be. If anyone, with me, be ministering, the Father, will honour him.
Now, is my soul troubled,—and what can I say? Father! save me from this hour? But, on this account, came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name!
There came, therefore, a voice out of heaven—I both have glorified it, and will glorify it again.
[So], the multitude that was standing by, and heard it, were saying—It hath, thundered. Others, were saying—A messenger, unto him, hath spoken.
Jesus answered, and said—Not for my sake, hath this voice come, but, for your sake.
Now, is there, a judging, of this world,—Now, the ruler of this world, shall be cast out;
And, I, if I be lifted up out of the earth, will draw, all, unto myself.
But, this, he was saying, signifying, by what manner of death, he was about to die.
The multitude, therefore, answered him—We, have heard, out of the law, that, the Christ, abideth evermore; How then dost, thou, say,—It behoveth the Son of Man to be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?
Jesus, therefore, said unto them—Yet a little while, the light, is, among you: Walk, while ye have, the light, lest, darkness, on you should lay hold; and, he that walketh in darkness, knoweth not whither he drifteth.
While, the light, ye have, believe on the light, that, sons of light, ye may become. These things, spake Jesus,—and, departing, was hid from them.
And, although such signs, as these, he had done before them, they were not believing on him:—
that, the word of Isaiah the prophet, might be fulfilled, which said—Lord! who believed, what we have heard? And, the arm of the Lord, to whom, was it revealed?
On this account, they could not believe, because, again, said Isaiah—
He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; lest they should see with their eyes, and should understand with their heart, and should turn,—and I should heal them.
These things, said Isaiah, because he saw his glory, and spake concerning him.
Nevertheless, however, even from among the rulers, many believed on him; but, because of the Pharisees, they were not confessing him, lest, excommunicants from the synagogue, they should be made;
for they loved the glory of men, more than the glory of God.
And, Jesus, cried aloud, and said—He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me;
And, he that vieweth me, vieweth him that sent me.
I, a light, into the world have come, that, no one who believeth on me, in darkness, should abide.
And, if anyone shall hearken unto my sayings, and not guard them, I, am not judging him; for I came not that I might judge the world, but that I might save the world.
He that setteth me aside, and receiveth not my sayings, hath that which is to judge him: The word that I spake, that, will judge him, in the last day.
Because, I, out of myself, spake not, but, the Father who sent me, hath, himself, given me commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.
And I know that, his commandment, is, life age-abiding; The things, therefore, which I speak, just as the Father hath told me, so, I speak.