In spirituall thinges brethren I wolde not have you ignoraunt.
Ye knowe that ye were gentyls and went youre wayes vnto domme ydoles even as ye were ledde.
Wherfore I declare vnto you that no man speakynge in the sprete of god defieth Iesus. Also no man can saye that Iesus is the lorde: but by the holy goost.
Ther are diversities of gyftes verely yet but one sprete.
And ther are differences of administracions and yet but one lorde.
And ther are divers maners of operacions and yet but one God which worketh all thinges that are wrought in all creatures.
The gyftes of ye sprete are geven to every man to proffit ye congregacion.
To one is geven thorow the spirite the vtteraunce of wisdome? To another is geven the vtteraunce of knowledge by ye same sprete.
To another is geuen fayth by ye same sprete. To another ye gyftes of healynge by the same sprete.
To another power to do myracles. To another prophesie? To another iudgement of spretes. To another divers tonges. To another the interpretacion of toges.
And these all worketh eve ye silfe same sprete devydynge to every man severall gyftes even as he will.
For as the body is one and hath many mebres and all the membres of one body though they be many yet are but one body: even so is Christ.
For in one sprete are we all baptysed to make one body whether we be Iewes or getyls whether we be bonde or fre: and have all dronke of one sprete.
For the body is not one member but many.
Yf the fote saye: I am not the honde therfore I am not of the body: is he therfore not of ye body:
And if ye eare saye I am not the eye: therfore I am not of the body: is he therfore not of the body?
If all the body were an eye where were then the eare? If all were hearynge: where were the smellynge?
But now hath god disposed the membres every one of them in the body at his awne pleasure.
If they were all one member: where were the body?
Now are ther many membres yet but one body.
And the eye can not saye vnto the honde I have no nede of the: nor ye heed also to the fete. I have no nede of you.
Ye rather a greate deale those mebres of the body which seme to be most feble are most necessary.
And apo those mebres of yt body which we thinke lest honest put we most honestie on. And oure vngodly parties have most beauty on.
For oure honest members nede it not. But God hath so disposed the body ad hath geven most honoure to that parte which laked
lest there shuld be eny stryfe in the body: but that the members shuld indifferetly care one for another.
And yf one member suffer all suffer with him: yf one member be had in honoure all members be glad also.
Ye are the body of Christ and members one of another.
And God hath also ordeyned in the congregacion fyrst the Apostels secodarely prophetes thyrdly teachers then the that do miracles: after that the gyftes of healynge helpers governers diversite of tonges.
Are all Apostles? Are all Prophetes? Are all teachers? Are all doars of miracles?
Have all the gyftes of healinge? Do all speake wt tonges? Do all interprete?
Covet after ye best giftes. Amd yet shewe I vnto you a moare excellent waye.