And this is the law of the guilt offering; it is most holy.
In the place where they kill the burnt offering, they shall kill the guilt offering, and its blood shall be sprinkled on the altar all around.
And all its fat shall be brought near, he shall offer the fat tail of it, and the fat which covers the inward parts,
and the two kidneys, and the fat on them, on the flanks, and the fold above the liver beside the kidneys, he shall remove.
And the priest shall burn them as incense on the altar, a fire offering to Jehovah; it is a guilt offering.
Every male among the priests shall eat it; it shall be eaten in the holy place. It is most holy.
As a sin offering is , so a guilt offering. One law is for them The priest who makes atonement by it, it is his.
And the priest who brings near any man's burnt offering, the skin of the burnt offering which he has brought near, it is the priest's, his own.
And every food offering which was baked in an oven, and every one that is prepared in the stewing pan, and on the griddle, shall be the priest's that offers it; it is his.
And every food offering, mixed with oil or dry, it shall be for all the sons of Aaron to a man, as his brother.
And this is the law of the sacrifice of the peace offerings which shall be brought near to Jehovah:
If he brings it for a thanksgiving, then he shall bring with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and thin unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and of well-mixed flour, cakes mixed with oil.
He shall bring his offering with the cakes of unleavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving, his peace offerings.
And he shall bring out of it one of every offering, a heave offering to Jehovah, to the priest sprinkling the blood of the peace offering; it is his.
As to the flesh of the sacrifice of the thanksgiving peace offerings, it shall be eaten in the day of his offering. He shall not leave of it until morning.
And if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow, or freewill offering, in the day he brings his sacrifice near, it shall be eaten. And on the morrow the rest of it shall also be eaten.
And the rest of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire.
And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings is at all eaten on the third day, it is not pleasing. It shall not be reckoned for him who has brought it. It shall be a hateful thing, and the person who eats of it shall bear his iniquity.
And the flesh which touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be burned with fire. As to the flesh, every clean one shall eat of the flesh.
And the person who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of the peace offerings which are Jehovah's when his uncleanness is upon him, even that person shall be cut off from his people.
And when a person touches any unclean thing , of the uncleanness of man, or of the uncleanness of animals, or of an unclean, abominable thing , and shall eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of the peace offerings which  are Jehovah's, even that person shall be cut off from his people.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, You shall not eat any fat of ox, or of sheep, or of goat.
And the fat of a dead body, and the fat of a thing torn may be used for any work, but you certainly shall not eat it;
for whoever eats the fat of the animal, of which one brings near a fire offering to Jehovah, even the person who eats shall be cut off from his people.
And you shall not eat any blood in all your dwellings, of fowl, or of animal.
Any person who eats any blood, even that person shall be cut off from his people.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, He who brings near the sacrifice of his peace offerings to Jehovah shall bring his offering to Jehovah from the sacrifice of his peace offerings;
his own hands shall bring in the fire offerings of Jehovah; the fat beside the breast he shall bring in with the breast, to wave it as a wave offering before Jehovah.
And the priest shall burn the fat on the altar as incense; and the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons.
And you shall make a heave offering of the right leg to the priest of the sacrifices of your peace offerings;
one of the sons of Aaron who is bringing near the blood of the peace offerings, and the fat, the right leg is his for a portion.
For the breast of the wave and the leg of the heave offering, I have taken from the sons of Israel, from the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and I have given them to Aaron the priest, and to his sons, by a never ending statute, from the sons of Israel.
This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron, and the anointing of his sons out of the fire offerings of Jehovah, in the day he shall bring them near to act as priests to Jehovah,
which Jehovah has commanded to give to them the day of His anointing them, from the sons of Israel, a never ending statute throughout their generations.
This is the law for burnt offering, for the food offering, and for sin offering, and for guilt offering, and for consecrations, and for a sacrifice of the peace offerings,
which Jehovah had commanded Moses in Mount Sinai, in the days of His commanding the sons of Israel to bring near their offerings to Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai.