And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.
And God spoke to Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob! And he said, Here I am.
And He said, I am God, the God of your fathers. Do not fear to go down into Egypt, for I will make of you a great nation.
I will go down with you into Egypt, and I will also surely bring you up again. And Joseph shall put his hand on your eyes.
And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba. And the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
And they took their cattle, and their goods which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob and all his seed with him.
His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed, he brought with him into Egypt.
And these were the names of the sons of Israel who came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's first-born.
And the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a woman of Canaan.
And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And the sons of Judah: Er and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zarah. But Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez: Hezron and Hamul.
And the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.
And the sons of Zebulun: Sered and Elon and Jahleel.
These were the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Padan-aram, with his daughter Dinah. All the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty-three.
And the sons of Gad were Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
And the sons of Asher: Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and their sister Serah. And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel.
These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these whom she bore to Jacob, sixteen souls.
The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife, were Joseph and Benjamin.
And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath the daughter of Potipherah the priest of On bore him.
And the sons of Benjamin: Belah and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob. All the souls were fourteen.
And the sons of Dan: Hushim.
And the sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.
These were the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and she bore these to Jacob. All the souls were seven.
All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, who came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were sixty-six.
And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two souls. All the souls of the house of Jacob, who came into Egypt, were seventy.
And he sent Judah before him to Joseph, to direct his face to Goshen.
And Joseph made his chariot ready, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen, and presented himself to him. And he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.
And Israel said to Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen your face, because you are still alive.
And Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's house, I will go up and show Pharaoh, and say to him, My brothers and my father's house, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me.
And the men are shepherds, for they have been men of cattle. And they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have.
And it shall be when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What is your occupation?
Then you shall say, Your servants have been men of cattle from our youth even until now, both we and our fathers, so that you may live in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.