Now these are the sons of the province who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, every man to his city,
who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
The sons of Parosh, two thousand a hundred seventy-two.
The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
The sons of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five.
The sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve.
The sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty-four.
The sons of Zattu, nine hundred forty-five.
The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.
The sons of Bani, six hundred forty-two.
The sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three.
The sons of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty-two.
The sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six.
The sons of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six.
The sons of Adin, four hundred fifty-four.
The sons of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
The sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three.
The sons of Jorah, a hundred and twelve.
The sons of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three.
The sons of Gibbar, ninety-five.
The sons of Bethlehem, a hundred twenty-three.
The men of Netophah, fifty-six.
The men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty-eight.
The sons of Azmaveth, forty-two.
The sons of Kiriath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty-three.
The sons of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
The men of Michmas, a hundred twenty-two.
The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty-three.
The sons of Nebo, fifty-two.
The sons of Magbish, a hundred fifty-six.
The sons of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty-four.
The sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five.
The sons of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.
The sons of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty.
The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
The sons of Immer, a thousand fifty-two.
The sons of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred forty-seven.
The sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, seventy-four.
The singers: the sons of Asaph, a hundred twenty-eight.
The sons of the porters: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, in all a hundred thirty-nine.
The Nethinim: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon,
the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub,
the sons of Hagab, the sons of Shamlai, the sons of Hanan,
the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah,
the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazzam,
the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai,
the sons of Asnah, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephisim,
the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,
the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha.
The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Hassophereth, the sons of Peruda,
the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Ami.
All the Nethinim and the sons of Solomon's servants were three hundred ninety-two.
And these were those who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they could not show their fathers' houses, and their seed, whether they were of Israel:
the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred fifty and two.
And of the sons of the priests: the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name.
These sought their registration among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found. Therefore they were deemed polluted and put away from the priesthood.
And the governor said to them that they should not eat of the most holy things till there stood up a priest with Urim and with Thummim.
The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty,
besides their men-servants and their maid-servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven. And they had two hundred singing men and singing women.
Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six, their mules, two hundred forty-five,
their camels, four hundred thirty-five, their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
And some of the heads of fathers, when they came to the house of Jehovah which is in Jerusalem, offered willingly for the house of God to set it up in its place.
They gave after their ability into the treasury of the work sixty-one thousand darics of gold, and five thousand pounds of silver, and one hundred priests' garments.
So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, dwelt in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.