O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; for His mercy endures forever.
Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom He has redeemed from the hand of the enemy,
and gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.
They wandered in the wilderness, in a desert by the way; they found no city to dwell in.
Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
Then they cried to the LORD in their distress, and He delivered them out of their troubles.
And He guided them by the right way, so as to go to a city to live in.
Oh that men would praise the LORD for His goodness, and for His wonderful works to the sons of man!
For He satisfies the thirsty soul, and fills the hungry soul with good.
Those who sit in the darkness and in the shadow of death, being chained in affliction and iron;
because they rebelled against the words of God, and despised the advice of the Most High.
and He humbled their heart with labor; they fell down, and none was helping.
Then they cried to the LORD in their distress, and He saved them out of their troubles.
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bands in two.
Let them praise the LORD for His goodness, and for His wonderful works to the sons of man!
For He has broken the gates of bronze, and cut the bars of iron in two.
Fools are afflicted because of their rebellion, and because of their iniquities.
Their soul hates all kinds of food; and they draw near the gates of death.
Then they cry to the LORD in their distress, and He saves them out of their troubles.
He sent His word and heals them, and delivers them from their pitfalls.
Let them praise the LORD for His goodness, and for His wonderful works to the sons of man!
And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare His works with rejoicing!
They who go down to the sea in ships, who do business in great waters;
these see the works of the LORD and His wonders in the deep.
For He commands and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up its waves.
They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths; their soul is melted because of trouble.
They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and all their wisdom is swallowed up.
And they cry to the LORD in their trouble, and He brings them out of their troubles.
He makes the storm a calm, so that its waves are still.
And they are glad because they are quiet; so He brings them to their desired haven.
Let them praise the LORD for His goodness, and for His wonderful works to the sons of man!
And let them exalt Him in the congregation of the people, and praise Him in the gathering of the elders.
He sets rivers to a wilderness and water-springs to thirsty ground;
a fruitful land to a salty desert, because of the wickedness of those who dwell in it.
He turns the wilderness into a water-ponds, and dry ground into water-springs.
And He makes the hungry dwell there, so that they may prepare a city to live in;
and sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.
He also blesses them, so that they are multiplied greatly; and does not allow their cattle to become few.
Again, they have become few, and humbled through harshness, affliction, and sorrow.
He pours scorn on nobles, and causes them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no path.
But He raises up the poor from affliction and sets families like a flock.
The upright shall see and rejoice; and all iniquity shall stop its mouth.
Whoever is wise, and will observe these things, they shall understand the mercies of the LORD.