Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a child, differs nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all;
But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father.
Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world:
But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law,
To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons.
And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.
Why you are no more a servant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.
However, then, when you knew not God, you did service to them which by nature are no gods.
But now, after that you have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn you again to the weak and beggarly elements, to which you desire again to be in bondage?
You observe days, and months, and times, and years.
I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed on you labor in vain.
Brothers, I beseech you, be as I am; for I am as you are: you have not injured me at all.
You know how through infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel to you at the first.
And my temptation which was in my flesh you despised not, nor rejected; but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus.
Where is then the blessedness you spoke of? for I bear you record, that, if it had been possible, you would have plucked out your own eyes, and have given them to me.
Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?
They zealously affect you, but not well; yes, they would exclude you, that you might affect them.
But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.
My little children, of whom I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you,
I desire to be present with you now, and to change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you.
Tell me, you that desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law?
For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, the one by a female slave, the other by a free woman.
But he who was of the female slave was born after the flesh; but he of the free woman was by promise.
Which things are an allegory: for these are the two covenants; the one from the mount Sinai, which engenders to bondage, which is Agar.
For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answers to Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children.
But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all.
For it is written, Rejoice, you barren that bore not; break forth and cry, you that travail not: for the desolate has many more children than she which has an husband.
Now we, brothers, as Isaac was, are the children of promise.
But as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit, even so it is now.
Nevertheless what says the scripture? Cast out the female slave and her son: for the son of the female slave shall not be heir with the son of the free woman.
So then, brothers, we are not children of the female slave, but of the free.