Now all the tax collectors and sinners were approaching him to hear him.
And the Pharisees and the scholars murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them.
And he spoke this parable to them, saying,
What man of you, having a hundred sheep, and having lost one of them, does not leave behind the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go for that which was lost until he finds it?
And when he finds it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And when he comes to the house, he calls together his men friends and his men neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, because I have found my sheep that was lost.
I say to you, that thus there will be joy in heaven over one sinner who repents, than over ninety-nine righteous men who have no need of repentance.
Or what woman having ten drachmas, if she lose one drachma, does not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and seek diligently until she finds it?
And when she has found it, she calls together her lady friends and lady neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, because I found the drachma that I lost.
Thus I say to you, there becomes joy in the presence of the agents of God over one sinner who repents.
And he said, A certain man had two sons,
and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falls to me. And he divided to them his living.
And not many days after, the younger son, having gathered all together, journeyed into a distant country, and there he squandered his wealth living recklessly.
And when he spent all, a mighty famine developed in that country, and he began to be in want.
And having gone, he was joined to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
And he longed to fill his belly from the husks that the swine ate, and no man gave to him.
But when he came to himself, he said, How many hired men of my father's have abundance of loaves, but I am perishing with hunger.
After rising, I will go to my father, and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight.
I am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired men.
And having risen, he went to his father. But while he was still distant, afar off, his father saw him and felt compassion. And having ran, he fell on his neck, and kissed him much.
And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight. I am no more worthy to be called thy son.
But the father said to his bondmen, Bring forth the best robe and clothe him, and give a ring for his hand, and shoes for his feet.
And having brought the fatted calf, kill it, and having eaten, we will be cheerful,
because this my son was dead, and became alive again. And he was lost, and is found. And they began to be cheerful.
But his elder son was in a field. And while coming, having approached the house, he heard music and dancing.
And having summoned one of the boys, he inquired what these things might be.
And he said to him, Thy brother arrived, and thy father has killed the fatted calf, because he received him back healthy.
But he was angry, and would not go in. Therefore, his father having come out, he called him.
But having answered, he said to his father, Lo, so many years do I serve thee, and I never passed by a commandment of thine, and yet thou never gave me a goat that I might be merry with my friends.
But when this thy son came, who has devoured thy living with harlots, thou killed for him the fatted calf.
And he said to him, Child, thou are always with me, and all my things are yours.
But it was needful to make merry and be glad, because this thy brother was dead, and became alive again, and was lost, and was found.