JESUS then before the days of the passover came to Bethany, where the deceased Lazarus was, whom he had raised from the dead.
Therefore they made him a supper there; and Martha waited: but Lazarus was one of those who sat at table with him.
Then Mary taking a pound of unadulterated balm of nard, very valuable, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment.
Then said one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, who was preparing to betray him,
Wherefore was not this aromatic ointment sold for three hundred denarii, and given to the poor?
Now he said this, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and kept the purse, and carried the money put therein.
Then said Jesus, Let her alone: for the day of my burial hath she reserved this.
For the poor ye have always with you; but me ye have not always.
Then the whole multitude of the Jews knew that he was there: and they came not for the sake of Jesus only, but also that they might see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
Then the chief priests consulted how they might kill Lazarus also;
because on his account many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus.
On the morrow a great multitude who came to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
took branches of palm, and went out to meet him, and cried, Hosanna! blessed is the king of Israel, that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Then Jesus, having found a young ass, sat upon it; as it is written,
“Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on the foal of an ass.”
These things indeed knew not his disciples at first: but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him.
Then the multitude that was with him, when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, bore their testimony.
Therefore also the multitude met him, because they had heard that he had done this miracle.
Then said the Pharisees among themselves, Do ye not perceive that ye gain no advantage? behold, the world is gone after him.
Now there were certain Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast:
these then came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida, of Galilee, and they asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus.
Philip comes and speaks to Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus.
Then Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a grain of wheat falling on the earth undergo a deathlike change, it abideth single: but if it thus die, it beareth abundant produce.
He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world, shall preserve it to life eternal.
If a man will be my servant, let him follow me; and where I am, there also shall my servant be: and if any man serve me, him will my Father honour.
Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour.
Father, glorify thy name! Then came a voice from heaven, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.
The multitude that stood by, and heard it, said that it was thunder: others said, An angel hath spoken to him.
Jesus answered and said, This voice came not for my sake, but for your’s.
Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the ruler of this world be ejected out of it.
And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me.
And this he said, signifying by what death he should die.
Then the multitude answered him, We have heard out of the law, that the Messiah abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, That the Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man?
Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest the darkness overtake you: he that walketh in darkness, knoweth not even whither he is going.
While ye have the light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of the light. These things spake Jesus, and going away, concealed himself from them.
Now, though he had done so many miracles before them, they believed not on him:
that the saying of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, “Lord, who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?”
For this reason they could not believe, because Isaiah had said again;
“He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their hearts; lest they should see with their eyes, and understand with the heart, and be converted, and I should heal them.”
These things said Isaiah, when he saw his glory, and spake of him.
However, notwithstanding, many even of the rulers believed on him; but on account of the Pharisees they did not make open profession, lest they should be put out of the synagogues:
for they loved honour from men, more than honour from God.
Then Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me.
And he that seeth me, seeth him that sent me.
I am come a light into the world, that every one who believeth on me should not abide in darkness.
And if any man, hearing my words, believeth not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.
He that sets me at nought, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: even the word which I have spoken, the same shall judge him at the last day.
Because I have not spoken of myself; but the Farther who has sent me, he gave me commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.
And I know that his commandment is life eternal: therefore the things which I speak to you, just as the Father spake to me, so speak I.