And this is the thing which you shall do to them, to sanctify them to minister as priests to Me: take one bullock, the son of the herd, and two perfect rams,
and unleavened bread , and unleavened cakes poured over with oil, and unleavened waters anointed with oil; you shall make them of fine wheat flour.
And you shall put them into one basket and shall bring them near in the basket, and the bullock and the two rams.
And you shall take Aaron and his sons to the door of the tabernacle of congregation. And you shall wash them in water.
And you shall take the garments, and you shall clothe Aaron with the tunic, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breast pocket. And you shall bind it to him with the band of the ephod.
And you shall put the miter on his head; and you shall put the holy crown on the miter.
And you shall take the oil of anointing and shall pour on his head, and shall anoint him.
And you shall take his sons and clothe them with tunics.
And you shall gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons; and you shall bind on bonnets for them; and it shall be a never ending statute for them in the priest's office. And you shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.
And you shall bring near the bullock before the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on he head of the bullock.
And you shall slaughter the bullock before the face of Jehovah, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And you shall take of the bullock's blood and shall put it on the horns of the altar with your finger. And you shall pour out all the blood at the base of the altar.
And you shall take all the fat that covers the inward parts, and the lobe on the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat on them, and you shall burn on the altar.
And you shall burn the flesh of the bullock, and its skin, and its dung, with fire outside the camp; it is a sin offering.
And you shall take one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
And you shall slaughter the ram, and you shall take its blood and shall sprinkle it on the altar all around.
And you shall cut the ram into pieces; and you shall wash its inward parts, and its legs, and shall place them on its pieces and on its head.
And you shall burn all the ram on the altar; it is a burnt offering to Jehovah, a soothing fragrance; it is a fire offering to Jehovah.
And you shall take the second ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.
And you shall slaughter the ram; and you shall take of its blood and shall put it on the tip of Aaron's ear, and on the tip of the ear his sons, and on the thumb of the right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot; and you shall sprinkle the blood on the altar all around.
And you shall take of the blood on the altar, and the oil of anointing, and you shall sprinkle on Aaron and on his garments, and on his sons, and on his sons' garments with him.
And you shall take the fat from the ram, and the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inward parts, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat on them, and the right leg; for it is a ram of consecration;
also one loaf of bread, and one cake of oil bread, and one wafer, from the basket of unleavened bread which is before the face of Jehovah.
And you shall put all on the palms of Aaron and on the palms of his sons. And you shall wave them a wave offering before the face of Jehovah.
And you shall take them from their hands, and you shall burn the burnt offering on the altar for a soothing fragrance before the face of Jehovah; it is a fire offering to Jehovah.
And you shall take the breast from the ram of consecration which is on Aaron. And you shall wave it a wave offering before the face of Jehovah; it shall be your portion.
And you shall sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the thigh of the heave offering, which is waved and which is lifted from the ram of consecration, from what is Aaron's, and from what is to his sons.
And it shall be for Aaron and for his sons for a never ending statute from the sons of Israel; it is for a heave offering, and it shall be a heave offering from the sons of Israel from the sacrifices of their peace offerings, their heave offering to Jehovah.
And the holy garments which are Aaron's shall be his sons' after him, for anointing in them and for filling their hands in them.
The priest shall put them on seven days, the one from his sons taking his place; the one who comes into the tabernacle of the congregation to minister in the sanctuary.
And you shall take the ram of consecration, and you shall boil its flesh in a sanctuary.
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread which is in the basket at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And they shall eat those things by which atonement is made to consecrate them, to sanctify them; and a stranger shall not eat, for they are holy.
And if any is left of the flesh of consecration, and of the bread, until the morning, you shall burn what is left with fire; it shall not be eaten, for it is holy.
And so you shall do to Aaron and to his sons, according to all which I have commanded you; you shall consecrate them seven days.
And you shall offer a bull of a sin offering daily for atonement; and you shall purify the altar in your making atonement for it; and you shall anoint it to sanctity it.
You shall make atonement seven days for the altar, and shall sanctity it; and the altar shall become most holy, all touching the altar becomes holy.
And this is what you shall offer on the altar: two lambs daily, sons of a year, continually.
The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the second lamb you shall offer between the evenings.
And a tenth of fine flour anointed with beaten oil. a fourth of a hin, and a drink offering, a fourth of a hin of wine, for the one lamb.
And you shall offer the second lamb between the evenings; you shall do to it like the morning food offering and its drink offering, for a soothing fragrance, a fire offering to Jehovah.
This shall be a continual burnt offering to your generations, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the face of Jehovah; there where I meet you to speak to you there.
And I will meet the sons of Israel here and it shall be sanctified by My glory.
And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar. And I will sanctify Aaron and his sons to minister as priests to Me.
And I will dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel; and I will be God to them.
And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, who brought them out from the land of Egypt, that I may dwell in their midst. I am Jehovah their God.