The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God;
as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way.
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make ready the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
John was immersing in the wilderness, and preaching the immersion of repentance in order to the remission of sins.
And all the country of Judea and the inhabitants of Jerusalem went out to him, and were all immersed by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
And John was clothed with camel’s hair, and had a girdle of leather around his loins, and he ate locusts and wild honey:
and he preached, saying: There comes after me One mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and loose.
I immerse you in water; but he will immerse you in the Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was immersed by John in the Jordan.
And immediately on coming up from the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him.
And there was a voice from the heavens: Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I delight.
And immediately the Spirit compelled him to go forth into the wilderness.
And he was there in the wilderness forty days, to be tempted by Satan; and he was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered to him.
But after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God,
and saying: The time has fully come, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent, and believe the gospel.
And as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon, and Andrew the brother of Simon, throwing a net about in the sea; for they were fishers.
And Jesus said to them: Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And immediately they left their nets, and followed him.
And when he had gone a little further thence, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship, mending their nets.
And he immediately called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him.
And they went into Capernaum; and immediately, on the sabbath, he entered the synagogue, and taught.
And they were astonished at his teaching; for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes.
And there was in their synagogue a man who had an unclean spirit; and he cried out,
saying: Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou Nazarene? Hast thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying: Be silent, and come out of him.
And the unclean spirit threw him into convulsions, and cried with a loud voice, and came out of him.
And all were amazed, so that they questioned one another, saying: What means this? What new teaching is this, that with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him?
And his fame immediately went abroad into all the surrounding country of Galilee.
And forthwith, having gone out of the synagogue, they went into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Now the mother-in-law of Simon lay sick of a fever. And at once they told him of her.
And he went to her, and took her by the hand, and raised her up, and the fever left her instantly; and she ministered to them.
And at evening, when the sun had gone down, they brought to him all that were sick, and those who were possessed with demons.
And the whole city came together to the door.
And he cured many that were sick of various diseases, and cast out many demons, and did not suffer the demons to speak, because they knew him.
And very early in the morning, while it was yet dark, he arose and went out, and departed to a desert place, and there prayed.
And Simon, and those who were with him, followed after him.
And when they had found him, they said to him: All are seeking for thee.
And he said to them: Let us go into the neighboring towns, that I may preach there also; for I have come forth for this purpose.
And throughout the whole of Galilee he continued to preach in their synagogues, and to cast out demons.
And there came to him a leper, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying to him: If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And Jesus, moved with compassion, stretched forth his hand, and touched him, and said to him: I will; be clean.
And when he had spoken, the leprosy immediately departed from him, and he was cleansed.
And he strictly charged him, and forthwith sent him away,
and said to him: See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
But he went out, and began to proclaim it much, and to publish the matter abroad, so that he was no longer able to enter a city openly, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.