My God, my God, why have thou forsaken me, far from helping me, and the words of my groaning?
O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou answer not, and in the night season, and I am not silent.
But thou are holy, O thou who inhabit the praises of Israel.
Our fathers trusted in thee. They trusted, and thou delivered them.
They cried to thee, and were delivered. They trusted in thee, and were not put to shame.
But I am a worm, and no man, a reproach of men, and despised by the people.
All those who see me laugh me to scorn. They shoot out the lip. They shake the head, saying,
He trusted on Jehovah. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, since he delights in him.
But thou are he who took me out of the womb. Thou made me trust upon my mother's breasts.
I was cast upon thee from the womb. Thou are my God since my mother bore me.
Be not far from me, for trouble is near, for there is none to help.
Many bulls have encompassed me. Strong bulls of Bashan have beset me around.
They gape upon me with their mouth, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; it is melted within me.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue clings to my jaws, and thou have brought me into the dust of death.
For dogs have encompassed me. A company of evildoers have enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet.
I may count all my bones. They look and stare upon me.
They part my garments among them, and upon my vesture do they cast a lot.
But be thou not far off, O Jehovah. O thou my succor, hasten thee to help me.
Deliver my soul from the sword, the only one of me from the power of the dog.
Save me from the lion's mouth, yea, from the horns of the wild-oxen. Thou have answered me.
I will declare thy name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation I will praise thee.
Ye who fear Jehovah, praise him. All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all ye the seed of Israel.
For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, neither has he hid his face from him, but when he cried to him, he heard.
From thee comes my praise in the great assembly. I will pay my vows before those who fear him.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise Jehovah who seek after him. Let your heart live forever.
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to Jehovah, and all the kinfolk of the nations shall worship before thee.
For the kingdom is Jehovah's, and he is the ruler over the nations.
All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust shall bow before him, even he who cannot keep his soul alive.
A seed shall serve him. It shall be told of the Lord to the next generation.
They shall come and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born, that he has done it.