I commend to you Phebe our sister, who is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea:
That ye receive her in the Lord, as it becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a helper of many, and of myself also.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus:
Who have for my life laid down their own necks: to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.
Likewise greet the church that is in their house. Greet my wellbeloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia to Christ.
Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us.
Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellowprisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.
Greet Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
Greet Apelles approved in Christ. Greet them who are of Aristobulus’ household .
Greet Herodion my kinsman. Greet them that are of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis, who laboured much in the Lord.
Greet Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren who are with them.
Greet Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
Greet one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you.
Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them who cause divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid them.
For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own body; and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the innocent.
For your obedience is come abroad to all men . I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise to that which is good, and simple concerning evil.
And the God of peace shall soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
Timothy my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, greet you.
I Tertius, who wrotethisepistle, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius my host, and of the whole church, greeteth you. Erastus the treasurer of the city greeteth you, and Quartus a brother.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Now to him that is able to establish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which hath been kept secret since the world began,
But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith:
To God the only wise, be glory through Jesus Christ for ever. Amen.  Written to the Romans from Corinth, and sent by Phebe servant of the church at Cenchrea.