And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals. And I heard one of the four living creatures, like a sound of thunder, saying, Come and see.
And I saw, and behold, a white horse! And the one sitting on it had a bow. And a crown was given to him, and he went out overcoming, and that he might overcome.
And when He opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come and see.
And another horse went out, red. And it was given to the one sitting on it to take peace from the earth, and that they should slay one another. And a great sword was given to him.
And when He opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come and see. And I saw, and behold, a black horse, and the one sitting on it having a balance in his hand.
And I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A choenix of wheat for a denarius, and three choenixes of barley for a denarius; and do not harm the oil and the wine.
And when He opened the fourth seal, I heard a voice of the fourth living creature saying, Come and see.
And I saw, and behold, a pale green horse, and the name of the one sitting on it was Death; and Hades followed after him. And authority was given to them to kill over the fourth of the earth with sword, and with famine, and with death, and by the wild beasts of the earth.
And when He opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those having been slain for the word of God, and for the witness which they had.
And they cried with a great voice, saying, Until when, holy and true Master, do You not judge and take vengeance for our blood, from those dwelling on the earth?
And there was given to each one a white robe. And it was said to them that they should rest yet a little time, until might be fulfilled also the number of their fellow-slaves and their brothers, those being about to be killed, even as they.
And I saw when He opened the sixth seal. And behold, a great earthquake occurred. And the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair; and the moon became as blood;
and the stars of the heaven fell to the earth, as a fig tree being shaken by a great wind casts its unripe figs.
And the heaven departed like a scroll being rolled up. And every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
And the kings of the earth, and the great ones, and the rich ones, and the commanders, and the powerful ones, and every slave, and every freeman hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains.
And "they said to the mountains" and to the rocks, "Fall on us," and hide us from the face of the One sitting on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb, Hos. 10:8
because the great day of His wrath has come; and who is able to stand?