And it happened, when Jehovah was to take up Elijah to Heaven in a tempest, Elijah and Elisha went from Gilgal.
And Elijah said to Elisha, Please stay here, for Jehovah has sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said, As Jehovah lives, and your soul lives, I will not leave you. And they went down to Bethel.
And the sons of the prophets in Bethel came out to Elisha, and said to him, Do you know that today Jehovah will take your lord from your head? And he said, Yes, I know. Keep silent.
And Elijah said to him, Elisha, please stay here, for Jehovah has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As Jehovah lives, and your soul lives, I will not leave you. And they came into Jericho.
And the sons of the prophets in Jericho came near to Elisha, and said to him, Do you know that today Jehovah will take away your lord from your head? And he said, Yes, I know. Keep silent.
And Elijah said to him, Please stay here, for Jehovah has sent me to the Jordan. And he said, As Jehovah lives, and your soul lives, I will not leave you. And they went on, both of them.
And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went on and stood afar off, across from them . And they both stood by the Jordan.
And Elijah took his mantle, and rolled it up, and struck the waters. And they were divided here and there, so that they both went over on dry ground.
And it happened, when they were crossing, Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken from you. And Elisha said, Then let there now be a double mouth of your spirit on me.
And he said, You have asked a hard thing. If you shall see me taken from you, it shall be so to you. And if not, it shall not be.
And it happened, as they were going on and speaking, behold, a chariot of fire and horses of fire came . And they separated between them both, and Elijah went up in a tempest to Heaven.
And Elisha was watching, and he was crying, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen! And he did not see him again. And he took hold on his garments and tore them into two pieces.
And he lifted up the mantle of Elijah that had fallen from him, and turned back and stood on the lip of the Jordan.
And he took Elijah's mantle that had fallen from him, and struck the waters, and said, Where is Jehovah the God of Elijah, even He? And he struck the waters; and they were split in two here and there, and Elisha crossed over.
And when they saw him, the sons of the prophets across in Jericho, then they said, The spirit of Elijah has rested on Elisha. And they came to meet him, and bowed to the earth to him.
And they said to him, Behold, now, there are with your servants fifty men, mighty sons. Please let them go, and they shall seek your lord, lest the Spirit of Jehovah has taken him up and has cast him on one of the mountains, or into one of the valleys. And he said, You shall not send.
And they pressed on him until he was ashamed. And he said, Send. And they sent fifty men, and they sought three days and did not find him.
And they returned to him, and he was staying in Jericho. And he said to them, Did I not say to you, Do not go?
And the men of the city said to Elisha, Behold, now, the site of the city is good, as my lord sees, but the waters are bad; and the ground causes barrenness.
And he said, Bring a new dish to me, and put salt there. And they took it to him.
And he went out to the source of the waters and threw salt there, and said, So says Jehovah, I have given healing to these waters; there shall not be death and sterility there any more.
And the waters were healed to this day, according to the word of Elisha that he spoke.
And he went up from there to Bethel. And he was going up in the highway. And little boys came out from the city and mocked him, and said to him, Go up, bald head! Go up, bald head!
And he turned behind him and saw them, and declared them vile in the name of Jehovah. And two bears came out of the forest and tore forty two boys of them.
And he went from there to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.