This then was the lot of the tribe of the sons of Judah by their families: to the border of Edom, the wilderness of Zin southward, in the extreme south.
And their south border was from the end of the Salt Sea, from the bay that looks southward.
And it went out southward to the ascent of Akrabbim, and passed on to Zin, and went up on the south of Kadesh-barnea, and went on to Hezron, and went up toward Adar, and turned toward Karkaa,
and passed on to Azmon, and went out by the torrent of Egypt. And the boundary line was at the Sea. This shall be your south border.
And the east border, the Salt Sea to the end of Jordan, and their border in the north quarter was from the bay of the sea at the uttermost part of Jordan.
And the border went up to Beth-hoglah, and passed along by the north of Beth-arabah. And the border went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben;
And the border went up toward Debir from the valley of Achor, and so northward, looking toward Gilgal, before the going up to Adummim, which is on the south side of the river. And the border passed toward the waters of En-shemesh, and its boundary was at En-rogel.
And the border went up by the valley of the son of Hinnom to the south side of the Jebusite. It is Jerusalem. And the border went up to the top of the mountain that lies before the valley of Hinnom westward, at the end of the Valley of the Giants northward.
And the border was drawn from the top of the hill to the fountain of the water of Nephtoah, and went out to the cities of mount Ephron. And the border was drawn to Baalah; it is Kirjath-jearim.
And the border went around from Baalah westward to Mount Seir, and passed along to the side of mount Jearim; it is Chesalon, on the north side, and went down to Bethshemesh, and passed on to Timnah.
And the border went to the side of Ekron northward, and the border was drawn to Shikkeron and passed along to Mount Baalah, and went out to Jabneel. And the boundary line was at the Sea.
And the west border was to the Great Sea, and the coast. This is the border of the sons of Judah all around according to their families.
And he gave a part among the sons of Judah to Caleb the son of Jephunneh, according to the command of the LORD to Joshua, even the city of Arba the father of Anak; it is Hebron.
And Caleb drove out from there the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the sons of Anak.
And he went up from there to those who lived in Debir. And the name of Debir before was Kirjath-sepher.
And Caleb said, He who smites Kirjath-sepher, and takes it, I will give my daughter Achsah to him for a wife.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it. And he gave him Achsah his daughter for a wife.
And it happened as she came, she moved him to ask a field from her father. And she dismounted from the ass. And Caleb said to her, What do you desire?
She answered, Give me a blessing, for you have given me a south land. Give me also springs of water. And he gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah according to their families.
And the furthest cities of the tribe of the sons of Judah toward the coast of Edom southward were Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,
and Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,
and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,
Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth,
and Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, and Hezron, which is Hazor,
Amam, and Shema, and Moladah,
and Hazargaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-palet,
and Hazar-shual, and Beer-sheba, and Bizjothjah,
Baalah, and Iim, and Azem,
and Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,
and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah,
and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon. All the cities are twenty-nine, with their villages.
In the low country were Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,
and Zanoah, and En-gannim, Tappuah, and Enam,
Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah,
and Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with their villages--
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad,
and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,
Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon,
and Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish,
and Gederoth, Beth-dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities with their villages--
Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan,
and Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,
and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities and their villages;
Ekron with its town and its villages;
from Ekron even to the Sea, all that were at hand by Ashdod, and their villages;
Ashdod with its towns and its villages; Gaza with its towns and its villages, to the river of Egypt, and the Great Sea, and its coast.
And in the mountains, Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh,
and Dannah, and Kirjath-sannah (which is Debir);
and Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim,
and Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities and their villages;
Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean,
and Janum, and Beth-tappuah, and Aphekah,
and Humtah, and Kirjath-arba; it is Hebron; and Zior; nine cities and their villages--
Maon, Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah,
and Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,
Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities and their villages;
Halhul, Beth-zur, and Gedor,
and Maarath, and Beth-anoth, and Eltekon; six cities and their villages--
Kirjath-baal; it is Kirjath-jearim; and Rabbah; two cities and their villages.
In the wilderness, Beth-arabah, Middin, and Secacah,
and Nibshan, and the city of Salt, and En-gedi; six cities and their villages.
As for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the sons of Judah could not drive them out. But the Jebusites live with the sons of Judah at Jerusalem to this day.