False balances are hateful to the LORD; but a just weight is His delight.
Pride comes, then shame comes; but with the lowly is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them; but the crookedness of traitors shall destroy them.
Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
The righteousness of the perfect shall make his way right, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but deceivers shall be taken in lust.
When a wicked man dies, his hope shall perish; and the hope of evil ones shall be lost.
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked comes in his place.
A hypocrite corrupts his neighbor with his mouth; but through knowledge the just shall be delivered.
When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices; and when the wicked are destroyed, there is singing.
By the blessing of the upright the city is lifted up, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
One despising his friend lacks heart, but a man of understanding remains silent.
One going with slander is a revealer of secrets, but the faithful of spirit keeps the matter hidden.
Where there is no wisdom, the people fall; but in the multitude of wise men there is safety.
He who is surety for a stranger shall be ruined; and he who hates suretyship is safe.
A gracious woman keeps honor, and the strong keep riches.
The merciful man does good to his own soul, but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.
The wicked makes a deceitful wage; but one sowing righteousness has a sure reward.
So righteousness tends to life; but one pursuing evil, it is to his own death.
They who are of a perverse heart are hateful to the LORD, but the upright in the way are His delight.
Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be innocent; but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
Like a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a beautiful woman who turns aside discretion.
The desire of the righteous is only good; the hope of the wicked is wrath.
There is one who scatters and yet increases; but one who withholds just due comes only to poverty.
The soul who gives freely shall be made fat; and he who waters shall also be watered himself.
He who withholds grain, the people shall curse him; but blessing is on the head of him who sells.
He who carefully seeks good gets favor; but he who seeks mischief, it shall come to him.
He who trusts in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall blossom like a branch.
He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind; and the fool shall be servant to the wise in heart.
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he who wins souls is wise.
Behold, the righteous shall be rewarded in the earth; much more the wicked and the sinner.