The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to him, to point out unto his servants the things which must needs come to pass with speed,—and he shewed them by signs, sending through his messenger, unto his servant John;
who bare witness as to the word of God, and the witness of Jesus Christ,—whatsoever things he saw.
Happy! he that readeth, and they who hear, the words of the prophecy, and keep the things, therein, written; for, the season, is, near.
John, unto the Seven Assemblies which are in Asia, Favour to you, and peace, from—Him who Is, and who Was, and who is Coming, and from—The Seven Spirits which are before his throne,
and from—Jesus Christ,—The Faithful Witness, The Firstborn of the Dead, and The Ruler of the Kings of the Earth. Unto him that loveth us, and loosed us out of our sins with his blood,—
and he hath made us [to be] a kingdom—priests unto his God and Father, Unto him, be the glory, and the dominion, unto the ages. Amen.
Lo! he cometh with the clouds, and every eye shall see him, such also as pierced him; and all the tribes of the land shall smite themselves for him. Yea! Amen.
I, am, the A, and, the Z, saith the Lord,—the, God who Is, and who Was, and who is Coming, The Almighty.
I, John, your brother, and partaker with you in the tribulation and kingdom and endurance in Jesus, came to be in the isle that is called Patmos, because of the word of God, and the witness of Jesus.
I came to be, in Spirit, in the Lord’s Day, and heard, behind me, a loud voice, as of a trumpet,
saying—What thou seest, write in a scroll, and send unto the Seven Assemblies,—unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamum,—and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia,—and unto Laodicea.
And I turned round, to see the Voice which was speaking with me, and, having turned, I saw Seven Lamps of gold;
and, in the midst of the lamps, One like unto a Son of Man:—clothed with a robe, reaching to the feet, and girt about at the breasts with a girdle of gold,
And his head and hair, white, like white wool—like snow, and, his eyes, like a flame of fire,
And, his feet, like unto glowing copper, as if in a furnace refined, and, his voice, like a sound of many waters,
And, having in his right hand, seven stars, and, out of his mouth, a sharp, two-edged sword, going forth; and, his whole appearance, as when, the sun, shineth in its strength.
And, when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead, and he laid his right hand upon me, saying—Do not fear! I, am the First, and the Last,
and the Living One,—and I became dead;—and lo! living, am I, unto the ages of ages, and have the keys of death and of hades.
Write, therefore—what things thou hast seen and what they are; and what things are about to come to pass, after these things:
The sacred secret of the seven stars, which thou sawest upon my right hand, and the seven lamps of gold:—The seven stars, are, messengers of the seven assemblies, and, the seven lamps, are, seven assemblies