NOW there was a man at Caesarea named Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort called the Italic,
a man of piety, and who feared God with all his house, giving much alms to the people, and praying to God continually.
He saw in a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day an angel of God coming to him, and saying to him, Cornelius.
Then looking stedfastly on him, and being terrified, he said, What means this, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial before God.
And now send men to Joppa, and inquire for Simon, who is surnamed Peter:
he lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is near the sea: this man will tell thee what thou must do.
But when the angel departed who spake to Cornelius, he called two of his domestics, and a pious soldier, persons who constantly were in attendance upon him;
and relating all things to them, sent them to Joppa.
Then the next morning, as they were on their journey, and drew near to the city, Peter went up to the flat roof to pray about the sixth hour:
and he grew very hungry, and desired something to eat: but whilst they were getting it ready, a sacred ecstacy fell upon him.
And he saw heaven opened, and there descended to him a certain vessel, as a great sheet with chains at the four corners, and resting upon the earth:
in which were all the quadrupeds of the earth, and wild beasts, and reptiles, and birds of the air.
And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter; slay and eat.
But Peter said, By no means, Lord for I have never at any time eaten of any thing common or unclean.
And the voice again a second time came to him, What God hath cleansed, call not thou unclean.
This was thrice repeated: and the vessel was again taken up into heaven.
But while Peter was perplexed in himself what was meant by the vision which he had seen, then, behold! the men which had been sent by Cornelius having inquired out the house of Simon, stood before the door,
and calling, asked if Simon, surnamed Peter, lodged there.
But while Peter was musing upon the vision, the Spirit said to him, Lo! three men are inquiring after thee.
Arise then, and go down, and go with them, entertaining no doubt, for I have sent them.
Then Peter went down to the men who were sent by Cornelius to him; and said, Lo! I am the person that ye ask for: what is the business on which ye are come hither?
Then they said, Cornelius a centurion, a just man, and one that feareth God, and of good report with all the nation of the Jews, has been divinely admonished by a holy angel to send for thee to his house, to hear words from thee.
Then inviting them in, he lodged them there. And the next morning Peter went with them, and some of the brethren from Joppa accompanied him.
And the next day they entered into Caesarea. Now Cornelius was expecting them, having called together his relations and nearest friends.
And as Peter was entering, Cornelius met him, and falling at his feet, paid him homage.
But Peter raised him up, saying, Arise; I also myself am a man.
And conversing with him, he entered, and found many assembled together.
And he said unto them, Ye know how contrary it is to established usage, for a man who is a Jew to associate with or visit one of another nation; but God hath shewed me to call no man common or unclean.
Wherefore also without a word, I came when invited: I beg to know therefore for what purpose ye have sent for me?
Then Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting till this hour; and at the ninth hour I was praying in my house, and, lo! a man stood before me in shining apparel,
and said, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thy alms are remembered before God.
Send therefore to Joppa, and invite Simon, whose surname is Peter, to come to thee; he lodgeth in the house of Simon the tanner, near the sea: who, when he is come will talk with thee.
Immediately therefore I sent to thee; and thou hast done well in coming. Now therefore are all we here present before God, to hear all things that are given in charge to thee from God.
Then Peter opening his mouth, said, In truth I perceive that God is not a respecter of persons:
but in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is acceptable to him.
The word which he sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ, (he is Lord of all,) ye know:
even that which was the common talk through all Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;
respecting Jesus, who was of Nazareth, how God had anointed him with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were tyrannically oppressed of the devil; for God was with him.
And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the region of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they killed suspending him on a tree:
him God raised up the third day, and ordained that he should be visibly manifested;
not to all the people, but to witnesses chosen before of God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he was arisen from the dead.
And hath commanded us to proclaim to the people, and to bear our testimony that this is the person who is ordained of God the Judge of the living and the dead.
To him bear all the prophets witness, that through his name every one who believeth in him, shall receive remission of sins.
While Peter was yet speaking these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all who heard the discourse.
And they of the circumcision who were believers, as many as came with Peter, were amazed, because even on the Gentiles the gift of the holy Ghost was poured out.
For they heard them speaking in different languages, and magnifying God. Then Peter addressed them,
Can any one forbid the water for baptising these persons, who have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?
So he commanded them to be baptised in the name of the Lord. Then they entreated him to tarry there some days.