And Jehovah said to Moses, Go in to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I may show these my signs in the midst of them,
and that thou may tell in the ears of thy son, and of thy son's son, what things I have wrought upon Egypt, and my signs which I have done among them, that ye may know that I am Jehovah.
And Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, How long will thou refuse to humble thyself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me.
Else, if thou refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into thy border.
And they shall cover the face of the earth, so that no man is able to see the ground. And they shall eat the residue of that which is escaped, which remains to you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which grows for you out of the field.
And thy houses shall be filled, and the houses of all thy servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians, as neither thy fathers nor thy fathers' fathers have seen, since the day that they were upon the earth to this day. And he turned, and went out from Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh's servants said to him, How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go, that they may serve Jehovah their God. Do thou not yet know that Egypt is destroyed?
And Moses and Aaron were brought again to Pharaoh. And he said to them, Go, serve Jehovah your God, but who are those who shall go?
And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go, for we must hold a feast to Jehovah.
And he said to them, So be Jehovah with you, as I will let you go, and your little ones. Look, evil is before you.
Not so. Go ye now who are men, and serve Jehovah, for that is what ye desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out thy hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the land of Egypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail has left.
And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and Jehovah brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and all the night, and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.
And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the borders of Egypt, very grievous were they, before them there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.
For they covered the face of the whole ground, so that the land was darkened, and they ate every herb of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left. And there remained not any green thing, either tree nor herb of the field, through all the land of Egypt.
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste, and he said, I have sinned against Jehovah your God, and against you.
Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and entreat Jehovah your God, that he may only take away from me this death.
And he went out from Pharaoh, and entreated Jehovah.
And Jehovah turned an exceedingly strong west wind, which took up the locusts, and drove them into the Red Sea. There remained not one locust in all the border of Egypt.
But Jehovah hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the sons of Israel go.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out thy hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt.
And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days,
they did not see each other, neither did anyone rise from his place for three days, but all the sons of Israel had light in their dwellings.
And Pharaoh called to Moses, and said, Go ye, serve Jehovah, only let your flocks and your herds stay. Let your little ones also go with you.
And Moses said, Thou must also give into our hand sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our God.
Our cattle shall also go with us, there shall not a hoof be left behind, for we must take of it to serve Jehovah our God, and we do not know with what we must serve Jehovah, until we come there.
But Jehovah hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go.
And Pharaoh said to him, Get thee from me. Take heed to thyself, see my face no more, for in the day thou see my face thou shall die.
And Moses said, Thou have spoken well. I will see thy face again no more.