And [when] king Arad, the Canaanite, who dwelt toward the Negev, heard tell that Israel came by the way of the sentinels; then he fought against Israel and took [some] of them prisoners.
Then Israel vowed a vow unto the LORD and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities.
And the LORD hearkened to the voice of Israel and delivered up the Canaanite; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities, and he called the name of the place Hormah.
And they journeyed from Mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to go around the land of Edom, and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way.
And the people spoke against God and [against] Moses, Why have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? [There is] no bread, neither [is there any] water; and our soul loathes this light bread.
And the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and many people of Israel died.
Then the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD and against thee; pray unto the LORD that he take away these serpents from [among] us. And Moses prayed for the people.
And the LORD said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent and lift it up as a banner, and it shall be that anyone that is bitten and looks upon it shall live.
And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it up as a banner, and it came to pass that when a serpent bit anyone, he beheld the serpent of brass, and lived.
And the sons of Israel set forward and pitched camp in Oboth.
And they journeyed from Oboth and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which [is] before Moab, toward the rising of the sun.
From there they removed and pitched in the valley of Zared.
From thence they removed and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which [is] in the wilderness that comes out of the borders of the Amorite; for Arnon [is] the border of Moab between Moab and the Amorite.
Therefore it is said in the book of the battles of the LORD, What he did in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon
and at the stream of the brooks that goes down to the dwelling of Ar, and lies upon the border of Moab.
And from there [they went] to Beer; this [is] the well of which the LORD spoke unto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will give them water.
Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it.
The princes dug the well, the willing people dug it, and the lawgiver, with their staves. And from the wilderness [they went] to Mattanah.
And from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth.
And from Bamoth [in] the valley, that [is] in the fields of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looks toward Jeshimon.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
Let me pass through thy land; we will not turn into the fields or into the vineyards; we will not drink [of] the waters of the wells; [but] we will go along by the king's [high] way until we are past thy borders.
But Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his border; instead Sihon gathered all his people together and went out against Israel into the wilderness; and he came to Jahaz and fought against Israel.
And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword and possessed his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, even unto the sons of Ammon, for the border of the sons of Ammon [was] strong.
And Israel took all these cities; and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites in Heshbon and in all the villages thereof.
For Heshbon [was] the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab and taken out of his hand all his land unto Arnon.
Therefore those that speak in proverbs say, Come into Heshbon, let the city of Sihon be built and prepared;
for there is a fire gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon; it has consumed Ar of Moab [and] the lords of the high places of Arnon.
Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, O people of Chemosh; he has put thy sons to flight and thy daughters into captivity because of Sihon king of the Amorites.
And Heshbon destroyed their kingdom even unto Dibon, and we have laid them waste even unto Nophah and Medeba.
Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorite.
And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took the villages thereof and drove out the Amorite that [was] there.
And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan; and Og, the king of Bashan, went out against them, he and all his people, to the battle at Edrei.
Then the LORD said unto Moses, Fear him not, for I have delivered him into thy hand and all his people and his land; and thou shalt do to him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon.
So they smote him and his sons and all his people until there was none left him alive; and they possessed his land.: