And I stood upon the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast rising up out of the sea having ten horns, and seven heads, and ten diadems upon its horns, and upon its heads names of blasphemy.
And the beast that I saw was similar to a leopard. And its feet were like a bear, and its mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave to it his power, and his throne, and great authority.
And one of its heads was as in death, having been killed. And its deadly wound was healed. And the whole earth marveled behind the beast.
And they worshiped the dragon who gave authority to the beast. And they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast, and who is able to war against it?
And a mouth was given to it speaking great things and blasphemy. And authority was given it to make war forty-two months.
And it opened its mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle, those who dwell in heaven.
And it was given it to make war with the sanctified, and to overcome them. And authority over every tribe and people and tongue and nation was given to it.
And all who dwell upon the earth will worship it, whose name has not been written in the book of life of the Lamb who was killed from the foundation of the world.
If any man has an ear, let him hear.
If any man keeps in captivity, he goes. If any man kills with a sword, he must be killed with a sword. Here is the perseverance and the faith of the sanctified.
And I saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and it had two horns similar to a lamb, and it spoke like a dragon.
And it exercises all the authority of the first beast before it. And it made the earth and those who dwell in it so that they would worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed.
And it does great signs, so that even fire would come down out of the sky upon the earth in the sight of men.
And it leads my kind astray (those dwelling on the earth) because of the signs that were given it to do in the sight of the beast, telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast that had the sword-wound and lived.
And it was given it to give a spirit to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast would both speak, and would make as many as would not ever worship the image of the beast be killed.
And it makes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the freemen and the bondmen, that they would give them marks on their right hand, or on their foreheads.
And so that not any man can buy or sell unless having the mark-the name of the beast or the number of its name.
Here is wisdom: He who has understanding, let him calculate the number of the beast, for it is a number of a man. And its number is 666.