Then came the word of Yahweh. unto me saying,
Son of man, Set thy face against the mountains of Israel,— and prophesy unto them;
and say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear ye the word of My Lord Yahweh,— Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh- To the mountains and to the hills to the hollows and to the valleys,- Behold me! I, am bringing upon you a sword, And I will destroy your high places;
And your altars shall be laid waste, And your sun-pillars shall be broken in pieces,— And I will cause your slain to fall before your manufactured gods;
And I will lay the carcases of the sons of Israel before their manufactured gods,— And will scatter your bones round about your altars.
In all your dwelling-places, The cities, shall be laid waste, and, The high places, shall be made desolate, To the end your altars may be laid waste and become desolate. And your manufactured gods be broken in pieces and cease, And your sun-pillars be cut down, And your handiworks be abolished.
And the slain shall fall in your midst, So shall ye know that I am Yahweh.
Yet will I leave a remnant: In that ye shall have such as are escaped of the sword throughout the nations, when ye are scattered throughout the lands.
Then shall they who have escaped of you remember me, among the nations whither they have been carried captive, In that I have broken their adulterous heart, which hath turned aside from me, And their eyes which have adulterously gone after their manufactured gods, So shall they become loathsome in their own sight, for the wicked things which they have done in all their abominations.
Then shall they know that, I, Yahweh,—not in vain, had threatened to bring upon them this calamity.
Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, Smite with thy hand, and stamp with thy foot and say, Alas! regarding all the wicked abominations of the house of Israel,—in that by sword, by famine, and by pestilence, shall they fall:
He that is far off by pestilence, shall die and He that is near by the sword, shall fall, and He that is left and is besieged by the famine, shall die; Thus will I make an end of mine indignation against them.
So shall ye know that I, am Yahweh, In that their slain are in the midst of their manufactured gods, on every side of their altars,— Upon every high hill In all the tops of the mountains and Under every green tree and Under every tangled oak, The place where they offered a satisfying odour to all their manufactured gods.
Thus will I stretch out my hand upon them, and make the land a greater waste and devastation than the desert toward Diblah throughout all their dwelling-places,- And they shall know that, I, am Yahweh.