Now a summation about the things being spoken is, we have such a high priest who was seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
a minister of the holy things, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord erected and not man.
For every high priest is appointed in order to offer both gifts and sacrifices, whereupon it is necessary for this man also to have something that he may offer.
For certainly if he were on earth, he would not even be a priest, there being the priests who offer the gifts according to the law,
who serve for an example and shadow of the heavenly things. Just as Moses who was divinely warned while going to complete the tabernacle, for he says, See thou make all things according to the pattern that was shown thee on the mountain.
But now he has obtained a superior ministry, by so much as he is also the mediator of a superior covenant, which has been enacted upon superior promises.
For if that first one was faultless, no place would have been sought for a second.
For, finding fault with them, he says, Behold, the days come, says the Lord, and I will perfect a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah.
Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by my hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. Because they did not continue in my covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord.
Because this is the covenant that I will ordain with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord, giving my laws into their mind, and I will write them on their hearts. And I will be to them for a God, and they will be to me for a people.
And they will, no, not teach each man his fellow citizen, and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, because all will know me, from their small as far as their great.
Because I will be merciful to their iniquities, and their sins and their lawlessness I will no, not further remember.
In saying, New, he has made the first old. And what is becoming old and obsolete is near disappearance.