Then said David, This, is the house of Yahweh God,—and, this, is the altar of ascending-sacrifice, for Israel.
And David gave word, to gather together the sojourners, who were in the land of Israel,—and he set hewers to hew squared stones, for building the house of God;
and, iron in abundance, for nails for the doors of the gates, and for hooks, did David prepare,—and bronze in abundance, without weight;
and cedar-trees, even without number,—for the Zidonians and the Tyreans brought cedar-trees in abundance, unto David.
And David said, Solomon my son, is young and tender, and, the house to be built, must be great and lofty and famous and beautiful, for all lands,—oh let me then prepare for it. So David prepared abundantly, before his death.
Then he called for Solomon his son,—and charged him, to build a house, for Yahweh, God of Israel.
And David said to Solomon his son,—As for me, it was, near my heart, to build a house for the Name of Yahweh my God;
but the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying, Blood in abundance, hast thou shed, and, great wars, hast thou made,—thou shalt not build a house for my Name, because, much blood, hast thou shed upon the earth, before me.
Lo! a son, born to thee, He, shall be a man of rest, and I will give him rest from all his enemies, round about,—for, Solomon, shall be his Name, and, peace and quietness, will I bestow upon Israel, in his days;
He, shall build a house for my Name, and, he, shall be my son, and, I, will be his father,—therefore will I establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel, unto times age-abiding:
Now, my son, Yahweh be with thee,—so shalt thou be prosperous, and shalt build the house of Yahweh thy God, according as he hath spoken concerning thee.
Only Yahweh give thee discretion and understanding, and give thee charge over Israel,—so that thou take heed unto the law of Yahweh thy God.
Then, shalt thou prosper, if thou take heed to do the statutes and the regulations, which Yahweh commanded Moses, concerning Israel,—be strong and bold, thou mayst not be in fear, nor be dismayed.
Lo! then, in my humiliation, have I prepared for the house of Yahweh, of gold a hundred thousand talents, and of silver a thousand thousand talents, and, as for bronze and iron, without weight, for, an abundance, hath it become,—timber also and stone, have I prepared, and, thereunto, thou canst add.
And, with thee, in abundance, are workmen, hewers and carvers of stone and wood,—and every sort of wise man, in all manner of work:
for gold and for silver and for bronze and for iron, without number. Arise and do, and Yahweh be with thee!
And David charged all the rulers of Israel, to help Solomon his son:—
Is not, Yahweh your God, with you? and hath he not given you rest on every side? for he hath given into my hand, the inhabitants of the land, and subdued is the land before Yahweh, and before his people.
Now, apply your heart and your soul, to seek unto Yahweh your God,—and then arise ye and build the sanctuary of Yahweh Elohim, that ye may bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, and the holy vessels of God, into the house which hath been built for the Name of Yahweh.