I made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I look upon a virgin?
For what is the portion from God above? And what is the inheritance from the Almighty on high?
Is not disaster to the perverse, and calamity to the workers of iniquity?
Does He not see my ways, and count all my steps?
If I have walked with vanity, or if my foot has hurried to deceit,
let me be weighed in an even balance so that God may know my uprightness.
If my step has turned out of the way, or my heart has walked after my eyes, and if any blot has held fast to my hands;
then let me sow, and let another eat; and let my harvests be rooted out.
If my heart has been enticed by a woman, or I have laid wait at my neighbor's door,
then let my wife grind to another, and let others bow down on her.
For that would be an evil purpose; yea, it would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges.
For it is a fire that devours to the Place of Ruin, and it would root out all my gain.
If I despised the cause of my man servant or of my slave-girl, when they argued with me;
what then shall I do when God rises up? And when He calls me to account, what shall I answer Him?
Did not He who made me in the womb make him? And did not One shape us in the womb?
If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
or have eaten my bit alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it,
for from my youth he grew up with me, as with a father, and from my mother's womb I guided her;
if I have seen any perish for lack of clothing, or there was no covering for the needy;
if his loins have not blessed me, and he warmed himself with the fleece of my flock;
if I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless when I watched over my help in the gate;
then let my arm fall from the shoulder blade, and let my arm be broken from the elbow.
For trouble from God is a terror to me, and I could not do anything because of His highness.
If I have made gold my hope, or have called fine gold my trust;
if I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because my hand had gotten much;
if I looked to the light when it shone, or the moon walking in brightness,
and my heart has been secretly enticed, or my mouth has kissed my hand;
this also would be an iniquity for the judges; for I would have denied the God above.
If I rejoiced at the ruin of my hater, and I was excited when evil found him;
also I have not allowed my mouth to sin by asking his life with a curse;
if the men of my camp did not say, Who can find one who has not been satisfied with his meat?
The stranger did not sleep in the street, for I opened my doors to the traveler.
If I covered my transgressions like Adam, by hiding my iniquity in my bosom,
then let me tremble before a great multitude, and be terrified by the scorn of families; and I will be silent and not go out the door.
Oh that I had one to hear me! Behold my mark. Let the Almighty answer me, and my Accuser write an indictment.
Surely I would carry it on my shoulder, and bind it like crowns to me.
I would declare to Him the number of my steps; like a prince I would go near Him.
If my lands cry against me, or its furrows weep together;
if I have eaten its strength without silver, or have caused its owner to expire,
let thorns come forth instead of wheat, and weeds instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.