But there was a man from the Pharisees, Nicodemus his name, a ruler of the Jews.
This one came to Jesus by night and said to Him, Rabbi, we know that You have come as a teacher from God. For no one is able to do these miracles which You do, except God be with Him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, if one does not receive birth from above, he is not able to see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus said to Him, How is a man able to be born, being old? He is not able to enter into his mother's womb a second time and be born?
Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, if one does not receive birth out of water and Spirit, he is not able to enter into the kingdom of God.
That receiving birth from the flesh is flesh, and that receiving birth from the Spirit is spirit.
Do not wonder because I told you, You must receive birth from above.
The Spirit breathes where He desires, and you hear His voice; but you do not know from where He comes, and where He goes; so is everyone who has received birth from the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to Him, How can these things come about?
Jesus answered and said to him, You are the teacher of Israel, and you do not know these things?
Truly, truly, I say to you, That which we know, we speak; and that which we have seen, we testify. And you do not receive our testimony.
If I tell you earthly things, and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
And no one has gone up into Heaven, except He having come down out of Heaven, the Son of Man who is in Heaven.
And even as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up,
that everyone believing into Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that everyone believing into Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
For God did not send His Son into the world that He might judge the world, but that the world might be saved through Him.
The one believing into Him is not condemned; but the one not believing has already been condemned, for he has not believed into the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the judgment, that the Light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness more than the Light, for their works were evil.
For everyone practicing wickedness hates the Light, and does not come to the Light, that his works may not be exposed.
But the one doing the truth comes to the Light, that his works may be revealed, that they exist, having been worked in God.
After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea. And He continued there with them and baptized.
And John was also baptizing in Aenon, near Salim, for many waters were there. And they came and were being baptized.
For John had not yet been thrown into the prison.
Then a question from John's disciples arose with the Jews about purifying.
And they came to John and said to him, Teacher, the one who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have witnessed, behold, this one baptizes, and all are coming to Him.
John answered and said, A man is able to receive nothing unless it has been given to him from Heaven.
You yourselves witness to me that I said, I am not the Christ, but that having been sent, I am going before that One.
The one having the bride is the bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom, standing and hearing him, rejoices with joy because of the bridegroom's voice. Then this my joy has been fulfilled.
That One must increase, but I must decrease.
The One coming from above is above all. The one being of the earth is earthy, and speaks of the earth. The One coming out of Heaven is above all.
And what He has seen and heard, this He testifies, and no one receives His testimony.
The one receiving His testimony has sealed that God is true.
For the One whom God sent speaks the words of God, for God does not give the Spirit by measure.
The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand.
The one believing into the Son has everlasting life; but the one disobeying the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.