Now a certain Lazarus, from Bethany of the village of Mary and her sister Martha, was sick.
And Mary was the woman who anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
The sisters therefore sent to him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou love is sick.
But when Jesus heard, he said, This sickness is not about death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it.
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
When therefore he heard that he is sick, then he actually remained two days in that place he was.
Later after this he says to the disciples, Let us go into Judea again.
The disciples say to him, Rabbi, the Jews were now seeking to stone thee, and thou go there again.
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If a man walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
But if any man walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
He spoke these things, and after this he says to them, Our friend Lazarus has become asleep, but I go that I may awake him.
His disciples therefore said, Lord, if he has become asleep, he will be healed.
But Jesus had spoken about his death, but those men thought that he was speaking about the restfulness of sleep.
Therefore Jesus then said to them plainly, Lazarus died.
And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that ye may believe. Nevertheless let us go to him.
Therefore Thomas, called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him.
So when Jesus came, he found him already four days being kept in the sepulcher.
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs away from it,
and many of the Jews had come to the women, about Martha and Mary, so that they might console them about their brother.
Therefore Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, met him, but Mary was sitting in the house.
Martha therefore said to Jesus, Lord, if thou were here, my brother would not have died.
But I know even now that as many things as thou may ask of God, God will give to thee.
Jesus says to her, Thy brother will rise.
Martha says to him, I know that he will rise in the resurrection at the last day.
Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, even though he died, he will live.
And every man who lives and believes in me will, no, not die, into the age. Do thou believe this?
She says to him, Yes, Lord, I have believed that thou are the Christ, the Son of God who comes into the world.
And when she said these things, she departed and called Mary her sister privately, saying, The teacher is here and calls thee.
When that woman heard, she rises quickly, and comes to him.
(Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in the place where Martha met him.)
The Jews therefore being with her in the house and consoling her, having seen Mary, that she rose up quickly and went out, followed her, saying that she was going to the sepulcher that she may weep there.
Therefore when Mary came where Jesus was, after seeing him, she fell down at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if thou were here, my brother would not have died.
When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews who gathered with her, weeping, he groaned in the spirit, and was himself troubled.
And he said, Where have ye laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
The Jews therefore said, Behold how he loved him.
But some of them said, This man who opened the eyes of the blind man, was he not also able to cause that this man also would not die?
Jesus therefore again groaning in himself comes to the sepulcher. Now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it.
Jesus says, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of the man who came to end, says to him, Lord, he smells now, for it is the fourth day.
Jesus says to her, Did I not to say thee, that if thou believed, thou will see the glory of God?
So they took away the stone where the man who died was laying. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou heard me.
And I had known that thou always hear me, but because of the multitude that stands by I spoke, so that they may believe that thou sent me.
And having said these things, he cried out with a great voice, Lazarus, come out.
And the man who died came forth, wrapped hands and feet with grave-clothes, and his face had been wrapped around with a face cloth. Jesus says to them, Loose him, and allow him to go.
Therefore many of the Jews who came to Mary, and who saw what Jesus did, believed in him.
But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus did.
Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, What are we doing? Because this man does many signs.
If we allow him this way, all men will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and the nation.
And a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, Ye know nothing at all,
nor do ye consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and not the whole nation should perish.
Now he said this not from himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation.
And not for the nation only, but also that he might gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
So from that day they consulted together so that they might kill him.
Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but departed from there into the region near the wilderness into a city called Ephraim, and he stayed there with his disciples.
Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the countryside before the Passover, so that they might purify themselves.
Therefore they sought Jesus, and spoke with each other as they stood in the temple, What does it seem to you? That he will, no, not come to the feast?
Now also the chief priests and the Pharisees had given commandment, that if any man knew where he is, he should disclose it, so that they might take him.