And the heads of the fathers of the Levites came near to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel.
And they spoke to them in Shiloh, in the land of Canaan, saying, Jehovah commanded by the hand of Moses to give cities to us to live in, and their open land for our livestock.
And the sons of Israel gave to the Levites out of their inheritance these cities and their open land, at the mouth of Jehovah:
And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites. And the sons of Aaron the priest, of the Levites, had by lot out of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin, thirteen cities.
And the rest of the sons of Kohath had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.
And the sons of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
The sons of Merari by their families had out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the sons of Israel gave by lot to the Levites these cities with their open land, as Jehovah commanded by the hand of Moses.
And they gave out of the tribe of the sons of Judah, and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, these cities which are called by name,
which the sons of Aaron had, being of the families of the Kohathites, who were of the sons of Levi. For theirs was the first lot.
And they gave them the City of Arba, the father of Anak (which is Hebron) in the hills of Judah, with its open lands around it.
But the fields of the city, and its villages, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his own.
So they gave Hebron and its open lands to the sons of Aaron the priest as a city of refuge for the slayer, and Libnah and its open lands,
and Jattir and its open lands, and Eshtemoa and its open lands,
and Holon and its open lands, and Debir and its open lands,
and Ain and its open lands, and Juttah and its open lands, and Beth-shemesh and its open lands; nine cities out of those two tribes.
And out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon and its open lands, Geba and its open lands,
Anathoth and its open lands, and Almon and its open lands; four cities.
And all the cities of the sons of Aaron the priest were thirteen cities and their open land.
And the families of the sons of Kohath, the Levites who were left of the sons of Kohath, even they had the cities of their lot out of the tribe of Ephraim.
And they gave them Shechem and its open land in Mount Ephraim as a city of refuge for the manslayer, and Gezer and its open lands,
And Kibzaim and its open lands, and Beth-horon and its open lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh and its open lands, Gibbethon and its open lands,
Aijalon and its open lands, Gathrimmon and its open lands; four cities.
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Taanach and its open lands, and Gathrimmon and its open lands; two cities.
All the cities were ten, and their open land, for the families of the sons of Kohath that were left.
And to the sons of Gershon, of the families of the Levites from the half tribe of Manasseh they gave Golan in Bashan and its open lands as a city of refuge for the manslayer, and Be-eshterah and its open lands; two cities.
And from the tribe of Issachar they gave Kishon and its open lands, and Dabareth and its open lands,
Jarmuth and its open lands, En-gannim and its open lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal and its open lands, Abdon and its open lands,
Helkath and its open lands, Rehob and its open lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee and its open lands as a city of refuge for the manslayer, and Hammothdor and its open lands, and Kartah, and its open lands; three cities.
All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families were thirteen cities and their open land.
And to the families of the sons of Merari, the rest of the Levites, out of the tribe of Zebulun, they gave Jokneam and its open lands, and Kartah and its open lands,
Dimnah and its open lands, Nahalal and its open lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer and its open lands, and Jahazah and its open lands,
Kedemoth and its open lands, and Mephaath and its open lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead and its open lands as a city of refuge for the manslayer, and Mahanaim and its open lands,
Heshbon and its open land, Jazer and its open lands; four cities in all.
All the cities for the sons of Merari by their families, those left of the families of the Levites, were by their lot twelve cities.
All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the sons of Israel were forty eight cities and their open land.
These cities were every one with their open land around them. So it was to all these cities.
And Jehovah gave to Israel all the land which He swore to give to their fathers. And they possessed it, and lived in it.
And Jehovah gave them rest round about, according to all that He swore to their fathers. And not a man of all their enemies stood before them. Jehovah delivered all their enemies into their hand.
Not did fail a word from any good word which Jehovah had spoken to the house of Israel. All came to pass.