You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep go astray and hide yourself from them. You shall surely bring them again to your brother.
And if your brother is not near you, or if you do not know him, then you shall bring it into your own house, and it shall be with you until your brother seeks after it, and you shall give it back to him again.
In the same way you shall do with his ass. And so shall you do with his clothing. And with any lost thing of your brother's, which he has lost and you have found, you shall do the same. You may not hide yourself.
You shall not see your brother's ass or his ox fall down by the way, and hide yourself from them. You shall surely help him to lift it up again.
There shall not be the thing of a man on a woman, neither shall a man put a woman's garment on. For all that do so are abominable to the LORD your God.
If a bird's nest happens to be before you in the way in any tree, or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the dam sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young.
You shall in every case let the mother go and take the young for yourself, so that it may be well with you, and you may make your days longer.
When you build a new house, then you shall make a guard rail for your roof, so that you do not bring blood on your house, if one falls from it.
You shall not sow your vineyard with different kinds of seeds, lest the fruit of your seed which you have sown and the fruit of your vineyard be defiled.
You shall not plow with an ox and an ass together.
You shall not wear a garment of different kinds, of wool and linen together.
You shall make for yourself tassels on the four corners of your cloak with which you cover.
If any man takes a wife and goes in to her, and hates her,
and makes shameful charges against her, and brings up an evil name on her, and says, I took this woman, and when I came to her, I did not find in her the tokens of virginity,
then shall the father of the girl, and her mother, take and bring tokens of the girl's virginity to the elders of the city in the gate.
And the girl's father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he hates her.
And, lo, he has made shameful charges against her, saying, I have not found in your daughter the tokens of virginity. And yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city.
And the elders of that city shall take that man and punish him.
And they shall fine him a hundred shekels of silver, and give them to the father of the girl, because he has brought an evil name on a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife. He may not put her away all his days.
But if this thing is true and tokens of virginity are not found for the girl,
then they shall bring the girl out to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones so that she dies because she has done foolishness in Israel to play the harlot in her father's house. So you shall put evil away from among you.
If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the man that lay with the woman, and the woman. So you shall put away evil from Israel.
If a girl who is a virgin is engaged to a husband, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her,
then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them with stones that they die; the girl because she did not cry out in the city, and the man because he has humbled his neighbor's wife. So you shall put away evil from among you.
But if a man finds an engaged girl in the field, and the man forces her and lies with her, then only the man that lay with her shall die.
But you shall do nothing to the girl. No sin worthy of death is in the girl; for as when a man rises against his neighbor and slays him, even so is this matter.
For he found her in the field, the engaged girl cried out, but there was none to save her.
If a man finds a girl, a virgin not engaged, and lays hold on her, and lies with her, and they are found,
then the man who lay with her shall give to the girl's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife. Because he has humbled her, he may not put her away all his days.
A man shall not take his father's wife, nor uncover his father's skirt.