The words of Amos, who was among the herdsmen of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
And he said: Jehovah will roar from Zion and utter His voice from Jerusalem. And the pastures of the shepherds shall mourn, and the top of Carmel shall dry up.
So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not turn back from it, for they have threshed Gilead with threshing sledges of iron.
But I will send a fire against the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.
I will also break the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant of the Valley of Aven, and him who holds the scepter from Beth-eden. And the people of Syria shall go captive to Kir, says Jehovah.
So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not turn back from it, for they deported as exiles to deliver up a complete population to Edom.
But I will send a fire against the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour its palaces.
And I will cut off Ashdod's dwellers and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon; and I will turn My hand against Ekron; and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish, says the Lord Jehovah.
So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not turn back from it, for they delivered up as exiles a complete population to Edom and did not remember the covenant of brothers.
But I will send a fire against the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour its palaces.
So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not turn back from it, for he pursued his brother with the sword, and corrupted his compassions, and his anger tore continually, and he kept it, his wrath, forever.
But I will send a fire against Teman, and it shall devour the palaces of Bozrah.
So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of the sons of Ammon, and for four, I will not turn back from it, for they ripped open the pregnant women of Gilead, to make their border larger.
But I will kindle a fire against the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour its palaces, with a war cry in the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the windstorm.
And their king shall go into captivity, he and his rulers together, says Jehovah.