Simon Peter, a bondman and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have received an equally precious faith with us in the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:
Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord,
as all things of his divine power to us, things toward life and piety, which were granted through the knowledge of him who called us through glory and virtue.
Because of which, the precious and greatest promises have been given to us, so that through these ye might become companions of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption in the world in lust.
Now this same thing also, having applied all eagerness, furnish in your faith, virtue, and in virtue, knowledge,
and in knowledge, self-control, and in self-control, perseverance, and in perseverance, piety,
and in piety, brotherly affection, and in brotherly affection, love.
For these things existing in you and abounding, it leads to not being idle nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
For he in whom these things are not present is blind, being near-sighted, having deliberately forgotten the purification of his former sins.
Therefore, brothers, instead be diligent to make your calling and selection sure, for doing these things, ye would, no, not ever stumble.
For so the entrance will be furnished to you abundantly into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Therefore I will not neglect to always remind you about these things, although having known them, and having been established in the present truth.
But I think it right, inasmuch as I am in this tent, to arouse you in memory.
Knowing that the putting off of my tent is imminent, even as also our Lord Jesus Christ indicated to me.
And also I will endeavor for you to always have, after my departure, the memory of these things to apply.
For we revealed to you the power and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, not men who followed in cunningly devised myths, but men who became eyewitnesses of the majesty of that man.
For having received from God the Father honor and glory from a voice of such kind brought to him from the Majestic Glory, This is my Son, the beloved in whom I am well pleased.
And we heard this voice, which was brought out of heaven, being with him on the holy mountain.
And we have the prophetic word sure, to which ye do well giving heed, as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns, and the daystar arises in your hearts.
Knowing this first, that no prophecy of scripture comes to pass of a personal interpretation.
For no prophecy was ever brought by a will of man, but holy men of God spoke, being led by the Holy Spirit.