What, then, is the preeminence of the Jew? Or what, the profit of his circumcision?
Much, every way:—First, indeed, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
For what? If some distrusted, shall their distrust make, the trust of God, void?
Far be it! But let, God, prove to be, true, albeit, every man, be false! Even as it is written—That thou mightest be declared righteous in thy words, and overcome when thou art in judgment.
But, if, our unrighteousness, commendeth, God’s righteousness, what shall we say? Surely, not unrighteous, is God who visiteth with his anger? After the manner of men, I am speaking,—
Far be it! Else how shall God judge the world?
But, if, the truth of God, by my falsehood, hath the more abounded unto his glory, why, any longer, am, even I, as a sinner, to be judged?
And why not, according as we are injuriously charged, [and] according as some affirm that we say, Let us do the bad things, that the good ones may come? whose sentence is, just.
What then? do we screen ourselves? Not at all! For we have before accused both Jews and Greeks of being, all under sin;
Even as it is written—there is none righteous, not even one,
There is none that discerneth, There is none that seeketh out God:
All, have turned aside, together, have become useless, There is none that doeth kindness, not so much as one:
A sepulchre opened, is their throat, with their tongues, have they used deceit, the poison of asps, is under their lips,
Whose mouth, of cursing and bitterness, is full,
Swift, are their feet to shed blood;
Destruction and misery, are in their ways,
And, the way of peace, have they not known:
There is no fear of God before their eyes.
Now we know that, whatsoever things the law saith, to them who are within the law, it speaketh, in order that, every mouth, may be stopped and all the world come, under penal sentence, unto God.
Inasmuch as, by works of law, shall no flesh be declared righteous before him,—through law, in fact, is discovery of sin.
But now, apart from law, a righteousness of God hath been manifested, borne witness to by the law and the prophets,—
A righteousness of God, through faith in [Jesus] Christ, unto all that have faith; for there is no distinction,—
For, all, have sinned and fall short of the glory of God;
Being declared righteous freely by his favour through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus:—
Whom God hath set forth as a propitiatory covering, through faith in his blood, for a showing forth of his righteousness, by reason of the passing-by of the previously committed sins,
In the forbearance of God,—with a view to a showing forth of his righteousness in the present season, that he might be righteous even when declaring righteous him that hath faith in Jesus.
Where, then, the boasting! It is excluded. Through what kind of law? Of works? Nay! but through a law of faith:
For we reckon that a man is to be declared righteous by faith, apart from works of law.
Or, [is God] the God, of Jews only, and not of the nations also? Yea! of the nations also:—
If, at all events, God is one, who will declare righteous—the circumcision by faith, and the uncircumcision through their faith.
Do we then make, law, void through means of our faith? Far be it! On the contrary, law, we do establish!