And there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim from the hills of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite.
And he had two wives, the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the second, Peninnah. And Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year, to worship and to sacrifice to the LORD of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of the LORD, were there.
And the time came that Elkanah offered, he gave portions to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters.
But to Hannah he gave one double portion, for he loved Hannah. But the LORD had shut up her womb.
And her foe also provoked her grievously, in order to make her tremble, because the LORD had shut up her womb.
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of the LORD, so she provoked her. And she wept and did not eat.
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why is your heart grieved? Am I not better to you than ten sons?
And Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh and after they had drunk. And Eli the priest sat on the seat by the side post of the temple of the LORD.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to the LORD, and wept sorely.
And she vowed a vow and said, O, Lord of hosts, if You will indeed look upon the affliction of Your handmaid and remember me, and not forget Your handmaid, but will give to Your handmaid a man-child, then I will give him to the LORD all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And it happened as she continued praying before the LORD, Eli noticed her mouth.
Now Hannah spoke in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. And Eli thought she had become drunk.
And Eli said to her, How long will you be drunken? Put away your wine from you!
And Hannah answered, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have neither drunk wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the LORD.
Do not count your handmaid for a daughter of wickedness, for out of the abundance of my meditation and grief I have spoken until now.
And Eli answered and said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant to you your petition that you have asked of Him.
And she said, Let your handmaid find grace in your sight. So the woman went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshiped before the LORD, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and the LORD remembered her.
And it happened when the time had come around, Hannah conceived and bore a son and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the LORD.
And the man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the LORD the yearly sacrifice and his vow.
But Hannah did not go up. For she said to her husband, Until the child is weaned, and then I will bring him so that he may appear before the LORD and stay there forever.
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Do what seems good to you. Stay until you have weaned him. Only may the LORD establish His word. So the woman stayed and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bulls and one ephah of flour, and a skin of wine, and brought him to the house of the LORD in Shiloh. And the child was young.
And they killed a bull, and brought the child to Eli.
And she said, O, my lord, as your soul lives, my lord, I am the woman who stood by you here, praying to the LORD.
For this boy I was praying, and the LORD has given me my petition which I asked of Him.
And I have returned him to the LORD. As long as he lives, he shall be given to the LORD. And he worshiped the LORD there.