Then shall the kingdom of the heavens be likened unto ten virgins who, taking their lamps, went forth to meet the bridegroom.
And five of them were prudent, and five [were] foolish.
Those that [were] foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them;
but the prudent took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.
And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom comes; go ye out to meet him.
Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps.
And the foolish said unto the prudent, Give us of your oil, for our lamps are going out.
But the prudent answered, saying, Lest there be not enough for us and you, but go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves.
And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and those that were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut.
Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not.
Watch, therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man comes.
For [it is] like a man travelling into a far country, [who] called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods.
And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, to each one according to his faculty, and straightway took his journey.
And after he was gone, he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same and made another five talents.
And likewise he that [had received] two, he also gained another two.
But he that had received one went and dug in the earth and hid his lord's money.
And after a long time the lord of those servants came and reckoned accounts with them.
And so he that had received five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, Lord, thou didst deliver unto me five talents; behold, I have gained beside them five talents more.
His lord said unto him, Well done, [thou] good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things; I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou didst deliver unto me two talents; behold, I have gained two other talents beside them.
His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things; I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
Then he who had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown and gathering where thou hast not scattered;
therefore, I was afraid and went and hid thy talent in the earth; behold, thou hast what is thine.
His lord answered and said unto him, [Thou] wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I have not scattered;
therefore, it was expedient for thee to have put my money to the bankers, and [then] at my coming I should have received mine own with interest.
Take, therefore, the talent from him and give [it] unto him who has ten talents.
For unto every one that has shall be given, and he shall have abundance, but from him that has not shall be taken away even that which he has.
And cast ye the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
When the Son of man shall come in his glory and all the holy angels with him, then he shall sit upon the throne of his glory,
and before him shall be gathered all nations; and he shall separate them one from another as a shepherd divides [his] sheep from the goats,
and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
Then shall the King say unto those on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world;
for I was hungry, and ye gave me food; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in;
naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me.
Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see thee hungry and feed [thee]? or thirsty and give [thee] drink?
When did we see thee a stranger and take [thee] in? or naked and clothe [thee]?
Or when did we see thee sick or in prison and come unto thee?
And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done [it] unto one of the least of these my brothers, ye have done [it] unto me.
Then he shall also say unto those who [shall be] on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels;
for I was hungry, and ye gave me no food; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink;
I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; naked, and ye clothed me not; sick and in prison, and ye visited me not.
Then they shall also answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see thee hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister unto thee?
Then he shall answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did [it] not to one of the least of my brothers, ye did [it] not to me.
And they shall go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.: