And when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, toward the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find an ass tied, and a colt with her. Loosen them and lead them to Me.
And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them. And he will send them at once.
But all this happened that might be fulfilled that spoken by the prophet, saying:
"Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your King comes to you, meek and mounted on an ass, even a colt, the son of an ass." Isa. 62:11; Zech. 9:9
And the disciples, going and doing as Jesus ordered them,
they led the ass and the colt. And they put on them their garments, and set Him on them.
And most of the crowd spread their garments on the road. And others were cutting branches from the trees and were spreading them in the road.
And the crowd, the ones going before and the ones following, were crying out, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David! "Blessed is He coming in the name of the Lord"! Hosanna in the highest! Psa. 118:25, 26
And as He entered into Jerusalem, all the city was shaken, saying, Who is this?
And the crowds said, This is Jesus, the Prophet, the one from Nazareth of Galilee.
And Jesus entered into the temple of God and threw out all those selling and buying in the temple. And He overthrew the tables of the money changers and the seats of those selling the doves.
And He said to them, It has been written, "My house shall be called a house of prayer," but you have "made it a den of robbers." Isa. 56:7; Jer. 7:11
And blind and lame ones came to Him in the temple, and He healed them.
But the chief priests and the scribes, seeing the wonders which He did, and the children crying out in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, they were incensed.
And they said to Him, Do you hear what these say? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Did you never read, "Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings You have perfected praise?" LXX-Psa. 8:3; MT-Psa. 8:2
And leaving them, He went out of the city to Bethany, and spent the night there.
And returning early to the city, He hungered.
And seeing one fig tree by the road, He went up to it, and found nothing on it except leaves only. And He said to it, Let there be no more fruit from you forever. And the fig tree immediately dried up.
And seeing, the disciples marveled, saying, How quickly the fig tree is dried up!
And answering, Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, If you have faith and do not doubt, not only will you do the miracle of the fig tree, but even if you should say to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea, it will be so.
And all things, whatever you may ask in prayer, believing, you shall receive.
And He, coming into the temple, the chief priests and elders of the people came near to Him as He was teaching, saying, By what authority do you do these things? And who gave this authority to you?
And answering, Jesus said to them, I also will ask you one thing, which if you tell Me, I also will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The baptism of John, from where was it? From Heaven, or from men? And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we shall say, From Heaven, He will say to us, Why then did you not believe him?
But if we should say, From men, we fear the people. For all hold John to be a prophet.
And answering Jesus, they said, We do not know. And He said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
But what do you think? A man had two children, and coming to the first he said, Child, go today; work in my vineyard.
And answering, he said, I will not. But afterward, feeling sorry, he went.
And coming to the second, he said the same. And answering, he said, I go , sir; but he did not leave.
Which of the two did the will of the father? They said to Him, The first. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, the tax collectors and the harlots go before you into the kingdom of God.
For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax-collectors and the harlots believed him. And seeing, you did not repent afterwards to believe him.
Hear another parable: There was a certain man, a house master, who planted a vineyard and placed a hedge around it; and he dug a winepress in it, and built a tower. And he rented it to vinedressers and left the country. Isa. 5:1, 2
And when the season of the fruits came, he sent his slaves to the vinedressers to receive his fruits.
And the vinedressers, taking his slaves, they beat this one, and they killed one, and they stoned another.
Again he sent other slaves, more than the first. And they did the same to them.
And at last he sent his son to them, saying, They will have respect for my son.
But seeing the son, the vinedressers said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and get hold of his inheritance.
And taking him, they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him .
Therefore, when the lord of the vineyard comes, what will he do to these vinedressers?
They said to Him, Bad men! He will miserably destroy them, and he will rent out the vineyard to other vinedressers who will give to him the fruits in their seasons.
Jesus said to them, Did you never read in the Scriptures, "A Stone which the builders rejected is the One that has become the head of the corner. This was from the Lord, and it is a wonder in our eyes?" Psa. 118:22, 23
Because of this I say to you, The kingdom of God will be taken from you, and it will be given to a nation bringing forth the fruits of it.
And he who falls on this Stone will be broken; but on whomever it falls, it will grind him to powder.
And hearing His parables, the chief priests and the Pharisees knew that He was speaking about them.
And seeking to lay hold of Him, they feared the crowds, because they held Him as a prophet.