And He said to them, Truly I say to you, There are some of those standing here who in no way shall taste of death until they see the kingdom of God coming in power.
And after six days Jesus takes along Peter and James and John, and leads them into a high mount apart, alone. And He was transfigured before them.
And His garments became shining, very white like snow, such as a fuller on earth is not able to whiten.
And Elijah with Moses was seen by them, and they were speaking with Jesus.
And answering, Peter said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; and, Let us make three tents, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
For he did not know what to say, for they were very fearful.
And a cloud was overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is My Son," the Beloved; hear Him. Psa. 2:7; Gen. 22:2; Deut. 18:15
And suddenly, looking around, they saw no one any longer, but Jesus alone with themselves.
And as they were coming down from the mount, He commanded them that they should tell no one what they saw, except when the Son of man should rise from the dead.
And they held the word to themselves, debating what it is to rise from the dead.
And they asked Him, saying, Do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And answering, He said to them, Indeed, Elijah coming first restores all things. And how it has been written of the Son of man that He suffer many things and be despised!
But I say to you, Elijah also has come and they did to him whatever they desired, even as it has been written of him.
And coming to the disciples, He saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them.
And at once all the crowd seeing Him were greatly amazed. And running up, they greeted Him.
And He questioned the scribes, What are you arguing with them?
And one answered out of the crowd, saying, Teacher, I brought my son to You, having a dumb spirit.
And wherever it seizes him, it dashes him; and he foams and gnashes his teeth. And he wastes away. And I told Your disciples, that they might expel it. And they were not able.
And answering them, He said, O unbelieving generation! How long will I be with you? How long shall I endure you? Bring him to Me.
And they brought him to Him. And seeing Him, the spirit immediately convulsed him. And falling on the ground, he wallowed, foaming.
And He questioned his father, How long a time is it while this has happened to him? And he said, From childhood.
And often it threw him both into fire and into water, that it might destroy him. But if You are able to do anything, help us, having pity on us.
And Jesus said to him, If you are able to believe, all things are possible to those believing.
And immediately crying out, the father of the child said with tears, Lord, I believe! Help my unbelief!
And seeing that a crowd is running together, Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Dumb and deaf spirit, I command you, Come out from him, and you may no more go into him!
And crying out, and convulsing him very much, it came out. And he became as if dead, so as for many to say that he died.
But taking hold of his hand, Jesus raised him up, and he stood up.
And He entering into a house, His disciples questioned Him privately, Why were we not able to cast it out?
And He said to them, This kind can go out by nothing except by prayer and fasting.
And going forth from there, they passed by through Galilee. And He desired that no one know.
For He taught His disciples, and said to them, The Son of man is betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill Him. And being killed, He will rise up the third day.
But they did not know the word, and feared to question Him.
And they came to Capernaum. And having come into the house, He questioned them, What were you disputing to yourselves in the way?
And they were silent, for they argued with one another in the way as to who was greater.
And sitting, He called the Twelve and said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all.
And taking a child, He set it in their midst, and having embraced it, He said to them,
Whoever receives one of such children on My name receives Me. And whoever receives Me does not receives Me, but the One having sent Me.
And John answered Him, saying, Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, who does not follow us. And we forbade him, because he does not follow us.
But Jesus said, Do not forbid him. For there is no one who shall do a work of power in My name, yet be able to speak evil of Me quickly.
For who is not against us is for us.
For whoever gives you a cup of cold water to drink in My name, because you are of Christ, truly I say to you, In no way he will lose his reward.
And whoever causes one of these little ones that believe in Me to offend, it is good for him if rather a millstone be laid about his neck, and he be thrown into the sea.
And if your hand offend you, cut it off. For it is profitable for you to enter into life maimed, than having two hands to go away into Hell, into the fire that cannot be put out,
where their worm does not die, and the fire is not put out.
And if your foot causes you to offend, cut it off, for it is profitable for you to enter into life lame, than having two feet to be thrown into Hell, into the fire that cannot be put out,
where their worm does not die, and the fire is not put out.
And if your eye offends you, cast it out. For it is profitable for you to enter into the kingdom of God one-eyed, than having two eyes to be thrown into the Hell of fire,
"where their worm does not die and the fire is not put out." Isa. 66:24
For everyone will be salted with fire, and every sacrifice will be salted with salt.
Salt is good, but if the salt becomes saltless, by what will you season? Have salt in yourselves and be at peace with one another.