And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee. And the mother of Jesus was there.
And Jesus and His disciples were both invited to the marriage.
And when they lacked wine, the mother of Jesus said to Him, They have no wine.
Jesus said to her, Woman, what do I have to do with you? My hour has not yet come.
His mother said to the servants, Whatever He says to you, do it.
And there were six stone waterpots there, according to the purification of the Jews, each containing two or three measures.
Jesus said to them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
And He said to them, Now draw out and carry it to the master of the feast. And they carried it.
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water which was made wine (and did not know where it was from, but the servants who drew the water knew), the master of the feast called the bridegroom.
And he said to him, Every man at the beginning sets forth good wine, and when men have drunk well, then that which is worse. You have kept the good wine until now.
This beginning of miracles Jesus did in Cana of Galilee. And it revealed His glory. And His disciples believed on Him.
After this He went down to Capernaum, He and His mother and His brothers and His disciples. And they did not stay there many days.
And the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And He found in the temple those who sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the money-changers sitting.
And when He had made a scourge of small cords, He drove them all out of the temple, also the sheep and the oxen. And He poured out the money-changers' money and overthrew the tables.
And He said to those who sold doves, Take these things away from here. Do not make My Father's house a house of merchandise.
And His disciples remembered that it was written, "The zeal of Your house has eaten Me up."
Then the Jews answered and said to Him, What sign do you show us, since you do these things?
Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up.
Then the Jews said, This temple was forty-six years building, and will you rear it up in three days?
But He spoke of the temple of His body.
Therefore when He had risen from the dead, His disciples remembered that He had said this to them, and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had said.
And as He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, at the feast, many believed in His name when they saw the miracles which He did.
But Jesus did not commit Himself to them, because He knew all men
and did not need that anyone should testify of man. For He knew what was in man.