Righteous [art] thou, O LORD, even though I dispute with thee: even so, I will speak judgments with thee; Why does the way of the wicked prosper? All those that completely rebel against thee have peace.
Thou hast planted them, and they have taken root: they grow, and they bring forth fruit; thou [art] near in their mouth and far from their kidneys.
But thou, O LORD, dost know me; thou hast seen me and tried my heart toward thee; pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and mark them for the day of slaughter.
How long shall the land be desolate, and the grass of all the field wither, for the wickedness of those that dwell therein? The cattle are lacking, and the birds because they said, He shall not see our latter end.
If thou hast run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee then how canst thou contend with horses? and [if] in the land of peace, [in which] thou didst trust, [they wearied thee], then how wilt thou do in the swelling of Jordan?
For even thy brethren, and the house of thy father, even they have dealt treacherously with thee, even they have raised their voice after thee, O congregation; do not believe them, when they speak fair words unto thee.
I have forsaken my house, I have left my heritage; I have given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies.
My heritage was unto me as a lion in the forest; it cried out against me, therefore I have hated it.
My heritage [is] unto me [as] a speckled bird; the birds round about [are] against her; come ye, assemble all the beasts of the field, come to devour her.
Many pastors have destroyed my vineyard; they have trodden my heritage under foot; they have made my precious heritage a desolate wilderness.
They have made it desolate; it cries against me, desolate; the whole land was made desolate because there was no man that would see.
The spoilers are come upon all high places through the wilderness: for the sword of the LORD shall devour from the [one] end of the land even to the [other] end of the land; there is no peace for any flesh.
They have sown bread, but shall reap thorns; they had the heritage, but they did not profit; and they shall be ashamed because of your fruits, by the [fierce] anger of the LORD.
Thus hath the LORD said against all my evil neighbours that touch the heritage which I have caused my people Israel to inherit; Behold, I will pluck them out of their land and pluck out the house of Judah from among them.
And it shall come to pass that after I have plucked them out, I will return and have mercy on them, and will cause them to return, each one to his heritage, and each one to his land.
And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear in my name, [saying], [The] LORD lives; as they taught my people to swear by Baal then they shall be prospered in the midst of my people.
But if they will not hear, I will utterly pluck up and destroy that nation, saith the LORD.: