And the men of Ziph came to Saul, to Gibeah, saying, Is not David hiding himself in the hill of Hachilah, on the edge of the desert?
And Saul rose up and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand men were with him, chosen ones of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Saul camped in the hill of Hachilah which is on the face of the desert, by the highway. And David was staying in the wilderness. And he saw that Saul had come after him into the wilderness.
And David sent spies, and he knew that Saul had certainly come to Nachon.
And David rose up and came to the place where Saul camped. And David saw the place where Saul lay down. And Abner the son of Ner, his army commander, and Saul were lying within the barricade. And the people were camping all around him.
And David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul, to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night. And, behold, Saul was lying down, sleeping within the barricade. And his spear was stuck into the earth at his head-place. And Abner and all the people were lying all around him.
And Abishai said to David, God has shut up your enemy into your hand today. And now, I beg you, let me strike him with a spear, even to the earth one time, and I will not repeat it to him.
And David said to Abishai, Do not destroy him. For who shall put forth his hand against the anointed of Jehovah and be guiltless?
And David said, As Jehovah lives, except Jehovah strike him, or his day shall come and he dies, or he goes down and is devoured in battle,
far be it from me, by Jehovah, from putting forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah. And now, please take the spear at his head-place, and the jar of water, and we will go.
And David took the spear and the jar of water at the head-place of Saul, and they went away. And no one was seeing; and no one knew; and no one was awake; for all of them were sleeping because a deep sleep from Jehovah had fallen on them.
And David crossed over to the other side and stood on the top of the hill far away, the distance between them being great.
And David called to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Do you not answer, Abner? And Abner replied and said, Who are you, the one calling to the king?
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man? And who is like you in Israel? But why have you not watched over your lord the king? For one of the people came in to destroy your lord the king.
This thing which you have done is not good. As Jehovah lives, you also are sons of death, in that you have not watched over your lord, over the anointed of Jehovah. And now, see where the king's spear is, and the jar of water which was at his head-place?
And Saul recognized the voice of David, and said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, My voice, my lord, O king!
And he said, Why is this, that my lord is pursuing his servant? For what have I done, and what in my hand is evil?
And now, please let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah has moved you against me, let Him accept an offering. And if the sons of men, they are cursed before Jehovah; for they have driven me out today from joining myself with the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And now, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of Jehovah, for the king of Israel has come out to seek a flea, as one hunts the partridge in the mountains.
And Saul said, I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I shall not do evil to you any more, because my life has been precious in your eyes today. Behold, I have acted foolishly, and I have erred exceedingly much.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! And let one of the young men cross over and receive it.
And Jehovah will return to each his righteousness and his faithfulness, in that Jehovah has delivered you into my hand, and I have not been willing to put forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah.
And behold, as your life has been highly esteemed in my eyes today, so let my soul he highly esteemed in the eyes of Jehovah. And may He deliver me out of all distress.
And Saul said to David, Blessed be you, my son David. Both you shall surely do, also you shall surely be able. And David went on his way. And Saul returned to his place.