And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun; and the moon was under her feet, and on her head was a crown of twelve stars;
and, being with child, she cried out in travail, and in the pains of delivery.
And there appeared another sign in heaven; and behold, a great dragon, fiery-red, that had seven heads, and ten horns: and on his heads seven diadems.
And his tail drew along the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to bring forth, that, when she had brought forth, he might devour her child.
And she brought forth a male child, that was to rule all nations with a rod of iron; and her child was caught away to God, even to his throne.
And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, that they should feed her there for a thousand two hundred and sixty days.
And there was war in heaven; Michael and his angels fought with the dragon; and the dragon and his angels fought,
and prevailed not: nor was their place found any more in heaven.
And the great dragon, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, who deceives the whole world, was cast into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
And I heard a great voice in heaven, saying: Now has come the salvation, and the power, and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren, he that accused them before our God day and night, is cast down.
And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives even to death.
Therefore, rejoice you heavens, and you that dwell in them. Alas for the land and for the sea! for the devil has come down to you with great anger, because he knows that he has but a short time.
And when the dragon saw that he was cast into the earth, he persecuted the woman that brought forth the male child.
And two wings of a great eagle were given to the woman, that she might fly into the wilderness into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, away from the presence of the serpent.
And the serpent threw out of his mouth water like a river, after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away by the river.
And the earth helped the woman; and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the river that the dragon threw out of his mouth.
And the dragon was angry with the woman, and went away to make war with the rest of her children, that keep the commandments of God, and that hold the testimony of Jesus.