What is then the preferment of the Iewe? or what is the profite of circumcision?
Much euery maner of way: for chiefly, because vnto them were of credite committed the oracles of God.
For what, though some did not beleeue? shall their vnbeliefe make the faith of God without effect?
God forbid: yea, let God be true, and euery man a lyar, as it is written, That thou mightest be iustified in thy words, and ouercome, when thou art iudged.
Now if our vnrighteousnes comend the righteousnes of God, what shall we say? Is God vnrighteous which punisheth? (I speake as a man.)
God forbid: els how shall God iudge ye world?
For if the veritie of God hath more abounded through my lye vnto his glorie, why am I yet condemned as a sinner?
And (as we are blamed, and as some affirme, that we say) why doe we not euil, that good may come thereof? whose damnation is iust.
What then? are we more excellent? No, in no wise: for we haue alreadie prooued, that all, both Iewes and Gentiles are vnder sinne,
As it is written, There is none righteous, no not one.
There is none that vnderstandeth: there is none that seeketh God.
They haue all gone out of the way: they haue bene made altogether vnprofitable: there is none that doeth good, no not one.
Their throte is an open sepulchre: they haue vsed their tongues to deceit: the poyson of aspes is vnder their lippes.
Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitternesse.
Their feete are swift to shead blood.
Destruction and calamity are in their waies,
And ye way of peace they haue not knowen.
The feare of God is not before their eies.
Now we know that whatsoeuer ye Lawe saieth, it saieth it to them which are vnder ye Law, that euery mouth may bee stopped, and all the world be subiect to the iudgement of God.
Therefore by the woorkes of the Lawe shall no flesh be iustified in his sight: for by the Lawe commeth the knowledge of sinne.
But nowe is the righteousnesse, of God made manifest without the Lawe, hauing witnes of the Lawe and of the Prophets,
To wit, the righteousnesse of God by the faith of Iesus Christ, vnto all, and vpon all that beleeue.
For there is no difference: for all haue sinned, and are depriued of the glorie of God,
And are iustified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Iesus,
Whom God hath set forth to be a reconciliation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousnes, by the forgiuenesse of the sinnes that are passed,
Through the patience of God, to shewe at this time his righteousnesse, that hee might be iust, and a iustifier of him which is of the faith of Iesus.
Where is then the reioycing? It is excluded. By what Lawe? of woorkes? Nay: but by the Lawe of faith.
Therefore we conclude, that a man is iustified by faith, without the workes of the Lawe.
God, is he the God of the Iewes onely, and not of the Gentiles also? Yes, euen of the Gentiles also.
For it is one God, who shall iustifie circumcision of faith, and vncircumcision through faith.
Doe we then make the Lawe of none effect through faith? God forbid: yea, we establish the Lawe.