And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Avenge the sons of Israel of the Midianites. Afterward thou shall be gathered to thy people.
And Moses spoke to the people, saying, Arm ye men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian, to execute Jehovah's vengeance on Midian.
From every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, ye shall send to the war.
So there were delivered, out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.
And Moses sent them, a thousand of every tribe, to the war, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the vessels of the sanctuary and the trumpets for the alarm in his hand.
And they warred against Midian as Jehovah commanded Moses, and they killed every male.
And they killed the kings of Midian with the rest of their slain: Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the five kings of Midian. They also killed Balaam the son of Beor with the sword.
And the sons of Israel took captive the women of Midian and their little ones. And all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their goods, they took for a prey.
And all their cities in the places in which they dwelt, and all their encampments, they burnt with fire.
And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of man and of beast.
And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the congregation of the sons of Israel, to the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by the Jordan at Jericho.
And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the rulers of the congregation, went forth to meet them outside the camp.
And Moses was angry with the officers of the army, the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds, who came from the service of the war.
And Moses said to them, Have ye saved all the women alive?
Behold, these caused the sons of Israel, through the counsel of Balaam, to commit trespass against Jehovah in the matter of Peor, and so the plague was among the congregation of Jehovah.
Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that has known man by lying with him.
But all the women-children, who have not known man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves.
And encamp ye outside the camp seven days. Whoever has killed any person, and whoever has touched any slain, purify yourselves on the third day and on the seventh day, ye and your captives.
And as to every garment, and all that is made of skin, and all work of goats' hair, and all things made of wood, ye shall purify yourselves.
And Eleazar the priest said to the men of war who went to the battle, This is the statute of the law which Jehovah has commanded Moses:
only the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead-
everything which may go into fire-ye shall make to go through the fire, and it shall be clean. Nevertheless it shall be purified with the water for impurity. And all that may not go into fire ye shall make to go through the water.
And ye shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and ye shall be clean, and afterward ye shall come into the camp.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Take the sum of the prey that was taken, both of man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar the priest, and the heads of the fathers of the congregation,
and divide the prey into two parts: between the men skilled in war who went out to battle, and all the congregation.
And levy a tribute to Jehovah of the men of war who went out to battle: one soul of five hundred, both of the persons, and of the oxen, and of the donkeys, and of the flocks.
Take it of their half, and give it to Eleazar the priest, for Jehovah's heave offering.
And of the sons of Israel's half, thou shall take one drawn out of every fifty, of the persons, of the oxen, of the donkeys, and of the flocks, even of all the cattle, and give them to the Levites, who keep the charge of the tabernacle of Jehovah.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as Jehovah commanded Moses.
Now the prey, over and above the booty which the men of war took, was six hundred seventy-five thousand sheep,
and seventy-two thousand oxen,
and sixty-one thousand donkeys,
and thirty-two thousand persons in all, of the women who had not known man by lying with him.
And the half, which was the portion of those who went out to war, was in number three hundred thirty-seven thousand and five hundred sheep.
And Jehovah's tribute of the sheep was six hundred and seventy-five.
And the oxen were thirty-six thousand, of which Jehovah's tribute was seventy-two.
And the donkeys were thirty thousand and five hundred, of which Jehovah's tribute was sixty-one.
And the persons were sixteen thousand, of whom Jehovah's tribute was thirty-two persons.
And Moses gave the tribute, which was Jehovah's heave offering, to Eleazar the priest, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And of the sons of Israel's half, which Moses divided off from the men who warred
(now the congregation's half was three hundred thirty-seven thousand and five hundred sheep,
and thirty-six thousand oxen,
and thirty thousand and five hundred donkeys,
and sixteen thousand persons),
even of the sons of Israel's half, Moses took one drawn out of every fifty, both of man and of beast, and gave them to the Levites, who kept the charge of the tabernacle of Jehovah, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And the officers who were over the thousands of the army, the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, came near to Moses.
And they said to Moses, Thy servants have taken the sum of the men of war that are under our charge, and there lacks not one man of us.
And we have brought Jehovah's oblation, what every man has gotten, of jewels of gold, ankle-chains, and bracelets, signet-rings, earrings, and armlets, to make atonement for our souls before Jehovah.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from them, even all wrought jewels.
And all the gold of the heave offering that they offered up to Jehovah, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels.
(For the men of war had taken booty, every man for himself.)
And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tent of meeting, for a memorial for the sons of Israel before Jehovah.