The Lord Jehovah made me see this: And behold, He is forming locusts at the beginning of the coming up of the late grass; even behold, the late grass after the king's mowings.
And it happened when it had made an end of eating the tender plant of the land, then I said, O Lord Jehovah, forgive, I pray You. How can Jacob stand? For he is small.
The LORD repented for this; it shall not be, says the LORD.
The Lord Jehovah made me see this: And behold, the Lord Jehovah was calling to contend by fire. And it consumed the great deep, and it was devouring part of it.
Then I said, O Lord Jehovah, I pray You, cease. How can Jacob stand? For he is small.
The LORD repented for this; this also shall not be, says the Lord Jehovah.
He made me see this: And behold, the Lord was standing by the plumbline-wall, and a plumbline in His hand.
And the LORD said to me, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A plumbline. Then the Lord said, Behold, I will set a plumbline in the midst of My people Israel. I will not again pass by them any more.
And the high places of Isaac shall be wasted, and the holy places of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.
Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos has plotted against you in the midst of the house of Israel; the land is not able to bear all his words.
For so Amos says: Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely go into exile out of his land.
And Amaziah said to Amos, O seer, go, flee for yourself into the land of Judah; and eat bread there, and prophesy there.
But do not prophesy again any more at Bethel; for it is the king's temple, and it is the king's royal house.
Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah: I was no prophet, nor was I a prophet's son. But I was a herdsman and a gatherer from sycamore trees.
And the LORD took me from behind the flock, and the LORD said to me, Go, prophesy to My people Israel.
Now then hear the word of the LORD. You say, Do not prophesy against Israel, and do not drop words against the house of Isaac.
So the LORD says this: Your wife shall be a harlot in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided by line. And you shall die in a defiled land; and Israel shall surely go into exile out of his land.