Give ear, O heavens, and I will speak. And hear, O earth, the words of my mouth.
My doctrine shall drop as the rain; my speech shall drop down as the dew, as the small rain on the tender plant, and as the showers on the grass;
because I will proclaim the name of Jehovah and ascribe greatness to our God.
He is the Rock; His work is perfect. For all His ways are just, a God of faithfulness, and without evil; just and upright is He.
They have corrupted themselves; they are not His sons; it is their blemish; they are a crooked and perverse generation.
Do you thus give back to Jehovah, O foolish and unwise people? Is He not your Father who bought you? Has not He made you and established you?
Remember the days of old, consider the years of many generations; ask your father, and he shall tell you; your elders, and they shall tell you;
when the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance; when He separated the sons of Adam, He set up the bounds of the peoples, according to the number of the sons of Israel.
For Jehovah's portion is His people; Jacob is the lot of His inheritance.
He found him in a desert land, and in the waste, a howling wilderness. He encircled him and cared for him; He guarded him as the pupil of His eye.
As the eagle stirs up its nest; it hovers over its young; it spreads out its wings and takes it, and bears it on its wing.
Jehovah alone led him, and there was no strange god with him.
He made him ride on the high places of the earth, so that he might eat the increase of the fields. And He made him suck honey out of the rock, and oil out of the flinty rock;
butter from cows, and milk from the flock, with fat from lambs, and rams of the sons of Bashan, and he goats, with the fat of the kidneys of wheat, and of the blood of the grape you shall drink wine.
But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked; you grew fat, thick and sated. And he abandoned God who made him, and fell away from the Rock of his salvation.
With strange gods they moved Him to jealousy; and with idols they provoked Him to anger.
They sacrificed to demons who were not God, to gods whom they did not know, new ones who came lately. Your fathers had not dreaded them.
You forgot the Rock that brought you into being and ceased to care for God who formed you.
And Jehovah looked and despised them because of the provocation of His sons and of His daughters.
And He said, I will hide My face from them; I will see what their end will be ; for they are a perverse generation, sons in whom is no faithfulness.
They made Me jealous with a no-god; they made Me angry by their vanities; and I shall make them jealous by a no-people; by a foolish nation I shall make them angry.
For a fire has been kindled in My anger, and it burns to the lowest Sheol, and consumes the earth and its produce; and sets on fire the foundations of the mountains.
I will heap evils on them; I will use up My arrows on them.
I will send on them exhaustion by famine, and depletion by burning heat, and bitter destruction, and the teeth of beasts, with the venom of crawling things of the dust.
The sword shall bereave from without, and terror from within, both the young man and the virgin, the suckling with the man of gray hairs.
I said, I will dash them to pieces; I will make their memory cease from among men;
saying , Were it not the provocation of an enemy I feared, that their foes should judge amiss, that they might not say, Our hand is high, and Jehovah has not done all this.
For they are a nation void of counsel, and no understanding is in them.
If they were wise, they would understand this; they would consider their latter end.
How could one chase a thousand, and two put a myriad to flight, if it were not their Rock that sold them, and Jehovah had shut them up?
For their rock is not our Rock, even our enemies being judges.
For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and their grapes of the fields of Gomorrah, grapes of gall; they have bitter clusters.
Their wine is the venom of serpents, and the cruel venom of asps.
Is it not stored up with Me, sealed in My treasuries?
Vengeance and retribution belong to Me; in due time their foot will slip; for the day of their calamity is near, and the things prepared are hurrying for them.
For Jehovah will bring His people justice; and He shall have compassion on His servants, for He sees that their power is gone, and only the imprisoned and abandoned remain .
And He will say, Where are their gods, the rock in which they sought refuge?
Who ate the fat of their sacrifices, and drank the wine of their drink offerings? Let them rise up and help you; let it be a hiding place for you.
See now that I, I am He, and there is no other God with Me. I kill, and I keep alive. I wound and I heal, and there is no deliverer from My hand.
For I lift up My hand to Heaven and say, I live forever!
If I have sharpened My glittering sword, and My hand lays hold on judgment, I will render vengeance to My foes, and I will repay those who hate Me.
I will make My arrows drunk with blood, and My sword shall devour flesh, with the blood of the slain and of the captives, from the hairy head of the enemy.
Rejoice, O nations, of His people; for He shall avenge the blood of His servants, and shall render vengeance to His foes, and shall have mercy on His land and His people.
And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Joshua the son of Nun.
And Moses finished speaking all these words to all Israel,
and said to them, Set your heart on all the words which I have testified against you today, that you command your sons to take heed to do all the words of this law.
For it is not a useless Word for you, for it is your life, and by this Word you shall prolong your days in the land where you are crossing over the Jordan, there to possess it.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses in that same day, saying,
Go up into this Mount Abarim, to Mount Nebo in the land of Moab, which is opposite Jericho; and see the land of Canaan which I am giving to the sons of Israel for a possession;
and die in the mountain where you are going, and be gathered to your people, even as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor, and was gathered to his people;
because you transgressed toward Me among the sons of Israel at the Waters of Strife in Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; because you did not sanctify Me in the midst of the sons of Israel.
Yet you shall see the land across from you , but you shall not go in there to the land which I am giving to the sons of Israel.