And the LORD called to Moses and spoke to him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, If any one of you brings an offering to the LORD, you shall bring your offering of the cattle, of the herd and of the flock.
If his offering is a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD.
And he shall put his hand on the head of the burnt offering. And it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him.
And he shall kill the young bull before the LORD. And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall bring the blood and sprinkle the blood all around on the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And he shall skin the burnt offering and cut it into its pieces.
And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar and lay the wood in order on the fire.
And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall arrange the parts with the head and the fat on the wood that is on the fire on the altar.
But its inward parts and its legs he shall wash in water. And the priest shall burn all on the altar, a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And if his offering is of the flocks, of the sheep, or of the goats, for a burnt offering, he shall bring a male without blemish.
And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before the LORD. And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall sprinkle its blood all around on the altar.
And he shall cut it into its pieces, with its head and its fat. And the priest shall arrange on the wood that is on the fire, which is on the altar.
But he shall wash the inward parts and the legs in water; and the priest shall bring near all of it and burn it on the altar. It is a burnt sacrifice, a fire offering of a sweet fragrance to the LORD.
And if the burnt sacrifice for his offering to the LORD is out of fowls, then he shall bring his offering of turtle-doves or of young pigeons.
And the priest shall bring it to the altar, and wring off its head and burn it on the altar. And its blood shall be drained at the side of the altar.
And he shall pluck away its crop with its feathers, and throw it beside the altar on the east part, by the place of the ashes.
And he shall cut it in two with the wings of it, not dividing it. And the priest shall burn it on the altar, on the wood that is on the fire. It is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.