And David said, Is there yet any left to the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness because of Jonathan?
And the house of Saul had a servant, and his name was Ziba. And they called him to David. And the king said to him, Are you Ziba? And he said, Your servant!
And the king said, Is there not yet a man to the house of Saul, that I may show the kindness of God to him? And Ziba said to the king, There is yet a son to Jonathan, lame in both feet.
And the king said to him, Where is he? And Ziba said to the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel in Lodebar.
And king David sent and took him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, of Lodebar.
And Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan the son of Saul came to David and fell on his face, and prostrated himself. And David said, Mephibosheth! And he said, Behold, your servant.
And David said to him, Do not be afraid, for I will certainly show kindness to you because of your father Jonathan. And I will give back to you all the land of your father Saul. And you shall eat bread at my table continually.
And he bowed and said, What is your servant, that you should look upon such a dead dog as I am?
And the king called to Ziba the servant of Saul, and said to him, All that belonged to Saul and to all his house, I have given to the son of your lord.
And you shall till the land for him, you and your sons and your servants. And you shall bring in the fruits , so that your master's son may have bread to eat. But Mephibosheth your master's son shall eat bread continually at my table. And Ziba had fifteen sons, and twenty servants.
And Ziba said to the king, According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so your servant will do. And Mephibosheth was eating at my table like one of the king's sons.
And Mephibosheth had a young son, and his name was Micah. And everyone living in Ziba's house were servants to Mephibosheth.
And Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, for he ate continually at the table of the king. And he was lame in both his feet.