But I commend our sister Phoebe to you, being a servant of the church in Cenchrea,
that you may receive her in the Lord, as is worthy of the saints, and may assist her in whatever thing she may need of you. For she also became a helper of many, and of myself.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
who laid down their neck for my soul, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the nations.
And greet the church at their house, and my beloved Epenetus, who is a firstfruit of Achaia for Christ.
Greet Mary, who did much labor for us.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow prisoners, noted among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.
Greet Urbanus, our helper in Christ, and my beloved Stachys.
Greet Apelles, the approved in Christ; Greet those of Aristobulus.
Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those of Narcissus, those being in the Lord.
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, those laboring in the Lord. Greet Persis the beloved, who has labored in many things in the Lord.
Greet Rufus, the chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers with them.
Greet Philologus and Julias, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you.
And brothers I exhort you to watch those making divisions and causes of stumbling contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and turn away from them.
For such ones do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by smooth speaking and flattering they deceive the hearts of those without guile.
For your obedience reached to all; therefore, I rejoice over you. But I desire you to be truly wise as to good, but simple toward evil.
And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
Timothy, my fellowworker, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, greet you.
I, Tertius, the one writing the epistle, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, the host of all the church and me, greets you. Erastus, the steward of the city, and Quartus the brother, greet you.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Now to Him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, and the proclaiming of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery having been kept unvoiced during eternal times,
but now has been made plain, and by prophetic Scriptures, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known for obedience of faith to all the nations;
to the only wise God through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever. Amen.