For the Leader; upon Shoshannim. A Psalm of David.
Save me, O G-d; for the waters are come in even unto the soul.
I am sunk in deep mire, where there is no standing; I am come into deep waters, and the flood overwhelmeth me.
I am weary of my crying; my throat is dried; mine eyes fail while I wait for my G-d.
They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head; they that would cut me off, being mine enemies wrongfully, are many; should I restore that which I took not away?
O G-d, Thou knowest my folly; and my trespasses are not hid from Thee.
Let not them that wait for Thee be ashamed through me, O L-rd GOD of hosts; let not those that seek Thee be brought to confusion through me, O G-d of Israel.
Because for Thy sake I have borne reproach; confusion hath covered my face.
I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother's children.
Because zeal for Thy house hath eaten me up, and the reproaches of them that reproach Thee are fallen upon me.
And I wept with my soul with fasting, and that became unto me a reproach.
I made sackcloth also my garment, and I became a byword unto them.
They that sit in the gate talk of me; and I am the song of the drunkards.
But as for me, let my prayer be unto Thee, O HaShem, in an acceptable time; O G-d, in the abundance of Thy mercy, answer me with the truth of Thy salvation.
Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink; let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.
Let not the waterflood overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up; and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.
Answer me, O HaShem, for Thy mercy is good; according to the multitude of Thy compassions turn Thou unto me.
And hide not Thy face from Thy servant; for I am in distress; answer me speedily.
Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it; ransom me because of mine enemies.
Thou knowest my reproach, and my shame, and my confusion; mine adversaries are all before Thee.
Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am sore sick; and I looked for some to show compassion, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.
Yea, they put poison into my food; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
Let their table before them become a snare; and when they are in peace, let it become a trap.
Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to totter.
Pour out Thine indignation upon them, and let the fierceness of Thine anger overtake them.
Let their encampment be desolate; let none dwell in their tents.
For they persecute him whom Thou hast smitten; and they tell of the pain of those whom Thou hast wounded.
Add iniquity unto their iniquity; and let them not come into Thy righteousness.
Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.
But I am afflicted and in pain; let Thy salvation, O G-d, set me up on high.
I will praise the name of G-d with a song, and will magnify Him with thanksgiving.
And it shall please HaShem better than a bullock that hath horns and hoofs.
The humble shall see it, and be glad; ye that seek after G-d, let your heart revive.
For HaShem hearkeneth unto the needy, and despiseth not His prisoners.
Let heaven and earth praise Him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein.
For G-d will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah; and they shall abide there, and have it in possession.
The seed also of His servants shall inherit it; and they that love His name shall dwell therein.