During that night, the sleep of the king fled,—and he commanded to bring in the book of remembrance, the chronicles, and they were read before the king.
And it was found written, how that Mordecai had told concerning Bigthana and Teresh, the two eunuchs of the king guarding the threshold,—who had sought to thrust forth a hand upon King Ahasuerus.
Then said the king, What honour and dignity hath been done unto Mordecai, for this? Then said the king’s young men, who were ministering unto him, Nothing hath been done for him.
Then said the king, Who is in the court? Now, Haman, had come into the outer court of the kings house, to speak unto the king, to hang Mordecai, upon the gallows which he had prepared for him.
So the king’s young men said unto him, Lo! Haman, standing in the court. And the king said, Let him come in.
So Haman came in, and the king said unto him, What shall be done unto the man in whose honour, the king delighteth? Then said Haman, in his own heart, Unto whom will the king delight to do honour, more than unto me?
So Haman said unto the king,—As touching the man in whose honour, the king, delighteth,
let them bring in royal apparel wherewith the king hath clothed himself,—and the horse whereon the king hath ridden, and the royal crown which hath been set upon his own head;
and let the apparel and the horse be delivered unto the hand of one of the king’s rulers, one of the nobles, and so let them array the man, in whose honour, the king, delighteth,—and cause him to ride upon the horse through the broadway of the city, and let them proclaim before him, Thus and thus, shall it be done unto the man in whose honour, the king, delighteth!
Then said the king unto Haman, Haste, take the apparel and the horse, just as thou hast said, and do even so unto Mordecai the Jew, who is sitting in the kings gate,—do not let fail a thing, of all which thou hast spoken!
So Haman took the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai,—and caused him to ride through the broadway of the city, and proclaimed before him, Thus and thus, shall it be done unto the man in whoso honour, the king, delighteth!
Then Mordecai returned unto the gate of the king,—but, Haman, hurried unto his own house, mourning, and with covered head.
And Haman recounted unto Zeresh his wife, and unto all his friends, everything that had befallen him. Then said his wise men, and Zeresh his wife, unto him, If, of the seed of the Jews, is Mordecai before whom thou hast begun to fall, thou shalt not prevail against him, but shalt, utterly fall, before him.
While yet they were speaking with him, the eunuchs of the king, had come,—and they hastened to bring Haman, unto the banquet which Esther had prepared.