And again my eyes lifted up and looked, and, behold, four chariots were coming from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of bronze.
With the first chariot were red horses, and with the second chariot black horses,
and with the third chariot white horses, and with the fourth dappled and strong colored horses.
And I answered and said to the angel who was talking with me, What are these, my lord?
And the angel answered and said to me, These are the four spirits of Heaven who go forth from standing before the Lord of all the earth.
The black horses in it go into the north country, and the white go after them; and the dappled ones go toward the south country.
And the strong colored ones went forth and sought to go, to walk to and fro in the earth. And he said, Go! Walk to and fro in the earth. So they walked to and fro in the earth.
And he cried out to me, and spoke to me, saying, Behold, these who go toward the north country have caused My Spirit to rest in the north country.
And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Take from Heldai, from Tobijah, and from Jedaiah, from the exiles who have come from Babylon; and in that day you go and enter into the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah.
And take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set on the head of Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest.
And speak to him, saying, So says Jehovah of hosts, saying, Behold! The Man whose name is THE BRANCH! And He shall spring up out of His place, and He shall build the temple of Jehovah.
Even He shall build the temple of Jehovah; and He shall bear the majesty, and shall sit and rule on His throne. And He shall be a priest on His throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between the two of them.
And the crowns shall be for a memorial in the temple of Jehovah, to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen, the son of Zephaniah.
And the distant ones shall come and build in the temple of Jehovah. And you shall know that Jehovah of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall be, if you will diligently obey the voice of Jehovah your God.