And Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood; two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it.
And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a crown of gold to it round about.
And he cast four rings of gold for it, in the four feet of it, even two rings on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
And he made staves of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold.
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark.
And he made a mercy-seat of pure gold, two cubits and a half the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it.
And he made two cherubim of gold, of beaten work he made them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat,
one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end, of one piece with the mercy-seat. He made the cherubim at the two ends of it.
And the cherubim spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces one to another. The faces of the cherubim were toward the mercy-seat.
And he made the table of acacia wood, two cubits the length of it, and a cubit the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it.
And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made thereunto a crown of gold round about.
And he made to it a border of a handbreadth round about, and made a golden crown to the border of it round about.
And he cast four rings of gold for it, and put the rings in the four corners that were on the four feet of it,
close by the border were the rings, the places for the staves to bear the table.
And he made the staves of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold, to bear the table.
And he made the vessels which were upon the table, the dishes of it, and the spoons of it, and the bowls of it, and the flagons of it, with which to pour out, of pure gold.
And he made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of beaten work, even its base, and its shaft, its cups, its knobs, and its flowers, were of one piece with it.
And there were six branches going out of the sides of it, three branches of the lampstand out of the one side of it, and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side of it,
three cups made like almond-blossoms in one branch, a knob and a flower, and three cups made like almond-blossoms in the other branch, a knob and a flower, so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
And in the lampstand were four cups made like almond-blossoms, the knobs of it, and the flowers of it,
and a knob under two branches of one piece with it, and a knob under two branches of one piece with it, and a knob under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of it.
Their knobs and their branches were of one piece with it. The whole of it was one beaten work of pure gold.
And he made the lamps of it, seven, and the snuffers of it, and the snuff dishes of it, of pure gold.
He made it of a talent of pure gold, and all the vessels of it.
And he made the altar of incense of acacia wood: a cubit was the length of it, and a cubit the breadth of it, foursquare, and two cubits was the height of it. The horns of it were of one piece with it.
And he overlaid it with pure gold, the top of it, and the sides of it round about, and the horns of it. And he made to it a crown of gold round about.
And he made for it two golden rings under the crown of it, upon the two ribs of it, upon the two sides of it, for places for staves with which to bear it.
And he made the staves of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold.
And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of sweet spices, after the art of the perfumer.