To the chief musician, A Psalm of David. O God of my praise, do not be silent;
for the mouth of the wicked, and the deceitful mouth, are opened against me; they spoke against me with a lying tongue.
And they hemmed me in with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.
In return for my love, they are my enemies; but I am in prayer.
And they put on me evil for good; and hatred for my love.
Set a wicked man over him; and let an adversary stand at his right hand;
when he is judged, let him go out wicked; and let his prayer become sin;
let his days be few; and let another take his office;
his sons be orphans, and his wife a widow;
and let his sons always beg and wander, and seek food out of their ruins;
let the moneylender lay a snare for all that is his; and let strangers plunder his labor;
let there be none giving mercy to him; nor any to have pity on his orphans;
let his posterity be cut off; let their name be blotted out in the following generation;
let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered to Jehovah; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out;
let them be always before Jehovah, so that He may cut off the memory of them from the earth;
because he did not remember to do mercy; and persecuted the poor and needy man; even to kill the broken-hearted.
Yea, he loved cursing, and it came to him; he also had no pleasure in blessing, and it was far from him.
As he clothed himself with cursing, as with a robe, even it came into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.
Let it be to him as a garment he wraps in, and for a girdle that he always girds on.
This is the reward of my foes from Jehovah, and of those who speak evil against my soul.
But You, O Jehovah the Lord, work with me for Your name's sake; deliver me because Your mercy is good.
For I am poor and needy, and my heart is pierced within me.
As a shadow when it stretches out, I am gone; I am shaken off like the locust.
My knees stumble from fasting, and my flesh grows lean from fatness.
And I have become a reproach to them; they looked at me; they shook their heads.
O Jehovah my God, help me; save me according to Your mercy;
and they will know that this is Your hand; that You, O Jehovah, have done it.
They will curse, but You will bless; they rise up and are ashamed; but Your servant will be glad.
Let those who accuse me be clothed with shame; and cover themselves in their shame as with a robe.
I will greatly thank Jehovah with my mouth; yea, I will praise Him in the midst of the multitude.
For He shall stand at the right hand of the needy; to save from those judging his soul.