And, on the third day, a marriage, took place, in Cana, of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there,—
and Jesus also was invited, with his disciples, unto the marriage.
And, wine falling short, the mother of Jesus saith unto him—Wine, have they none!
And Jesus saith unto her—What part can I take with thee, O woman? Not yet, hath come, mine hour.
His mother saith unto them who are ministering—Whatsoever he may say to you, do!
Now there were there, six stone water-vessels, placed, according to the purification of the Jews; holding each, two or three measures.
Jesus saith unto them—Fill the vessels with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
And he saith unto them—Draw out now, and be bearing unto the master of the feast. And they bare.
And, when the master of the feast had tasted the water, now made, wine, and knew not whence it was,—though, they who were ministering, knew, even they who had drawn out the water, the master accosteth the bridegroom,
and saith unto him—Every man, first the good wine, setteth out; and, when they had been well-supplied, the inferior:—Thou, hast kept the good wine until, even now.
This, beginning of his signs, did Jesus, in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
After this, he came down into Capernaum,—he, and his mother and brethren, and his disciples; and, there, they abode, not many days.
And, near, was the passover of the Jews; and, Jesus, went up unto Jerusalem.
And he found, in the temple, them that were selling oxen and sheep and doves, also the money-changers sitting.
And, making a scourge out of rushes, all of them, thrust he forth out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and, the money-changers’ small coins, poured he forth, and, the tables, he overturned;
and unto them who were selling, the doves, he said—Take these things hence! Be not making, the house of my Father, a house of merchandise.
His disciples remembered that it was written—The zeal of thy house, eateth me up.
The Jews therefore answered, and said unto him, What sign, dost thou point out to us, in that, these things, thou doest?
Jesus answered, and said unto them—Take down this shrine, and, in three days, will I raise it.
The Jews, therefore, said—In forty and six years, was this shrine built. And, thou, in three days, wilt raise it!
But, he, was speaking concerning the shrine of his body.
When, therefore, he had been raised from among the dead, his disciples remembered, that, this, he had been saying; and they believed in the Scripture, and in the word which Jesus had spoken.
Now, when he was in Jerusalem, during the passover, during the feast, many, believed on his name, viewing his signs which he was doing.
Jesus himself, however, was not trusting himself unto them, by reason of his understanding them all,
and because he had, no need, that anyone should bear witness concerning man; for, he, understood what was in man.