But, King Solomon, loved many foreign women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh,—women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, Hittites:
out of the nations concerning whom Yahweh had said unto the sons of Israel—Ye shall not go in unto them, and, they, shall not come in unto you, surely they will turn aside your heart after their gods. Unto these, did Solomon cleave in love.
So it came to pass that he had seven hundred wives who were princesses, and three hundred concubines,—and, his wives, turned aside, his heart.
Yea it came to pass, in the old age of Solomon, that, his wives, turned aside his heart after other gods,—his heart therefore was not sound with Yahweh his God, as was the heart of David his father.
And Solomon went after Ashtoreth, goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom, the abomination of the Ammonites.
Thus Solomon did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh,—and went not fully after Yahweh, as did David his father.
Then, did Solomon build a high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab, in the hill that is before Jerusalem,—and for Molech, the abomination of the sons of Ammon;
and, thus, did he for all his foreign wives,—who burned incense and offered sacrifices unto their gods.
Therefore did Yahweh shew himself angry with Solomon,—because his heart had turned aside from Yahweh God of Israel, who had appeared unto him twice;
and had been giving command to him concerning this thing, that he should not go away after other gods,—but he had not taken heed unto that which Yahweh had commanded.
Wherefore Yahweh said unto Solomon—Forasmuch as this hath come to pass with thee, and thou hast not heeded my covenant and my statutes, which I charged upon thee, I will, rend, the kingdom away from thee, and will give it unto a servant of thine.
Notwithstanding, in thine own days, will I not do it, for the sake of David thy father,—out of the hand of thy son, will I rend it.
Howbeit, all the kingdom, will I not rend away, one tribe, will I give unto thy son,—for the sake of David my servant, and for the sake of Jerusalem, which I have chosen.
And Yahweh raised up an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite,—of the seed of the king, was he, in Edom.
And it came to pass, when David was dealing with Edom, and Joab general of the army went up to bury the slain,—and had smitten every male in Edom,—
for, six months, did Joab remain there, with all Israel,—until he had cut off every male in Edom,
that Hadad fled, he and certain men of Edom of the servants of his father, with him, to go into Egypt,—Hadad being a little boy.
So they arose out of Midian, and came into Paran,—and took certain men with them out of Paran, and came into Egypt, unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house, and, food, appointed him, and, land, did give unto him.
And Hadad found great favour in the eyes of Pharaoh,—so that he gave him to wife, the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen.
And the sister of Tahpenes bare to him Genubath his son, and Tahpenes weaned him, in the house of Pharaoh,—and so it came about, that Genubath was of the household of Pharaoh, among the sons of Pharaoh.
And, when, Hadad, heard in Egypt, that David slept with his fathers, and that Joab general of the army was dead, Hadad said unto Pharaoh, Let me go, that I may take my journey unto mine own land.
Then said Pharaoh unto him—But what hast thou been lacking with me, that lo! thou art seeking to take thy journey unto thine own land? And he said—Nothing, howbeit, let me go.
And God raised up against him an adversary, Rezon son of Eliada,—who had fled from Hadadezer king of Zobah, his lord;
and he gathered unto him men, and became captain of a band when David slew them [of Zobah],—then went they to Damascus, and dwelt therein, and reigned in Damascus.
Thus became he an adversary unto Israel, all the days of Solomon, this, is the mischief which Hadad did,—so then, he abhorred Israel, when he reigned over Syria.
Jeroboam also, son of Nebat, an Ephrathite from Zeredah, whose, mother’s name, was Zeruah, a widow woman, he being servant to Solomon, lifted up a hand against the king.
And, this, was the cause that he lifted up a hand against the king,—Solomon, built Millo, he closed up of the of David his father. the breach city
Now, the man Jeroboam, being an able Solomon observed his servant, that he man, was, one to execute a work, so he gave him oversight of all the charge of the house of Joseph.
And it came to pass, at that time, when, Jeroboam, went forth out of Jerusalem, that there met him Ahijah the Shilonite, the prophet, in the way, he having wrapped himself about with a new mantle; and, they two, were by themselves, in the field.
Then Ahijah laid hold of the new mantle, that was upon him,—and rent it into twelve pieces;
and said to Jeroboam, Take thee ten places,—for Thus, saith Yahweh, God of Israel—Behold me! about to rend the kingdom, out of the hand of Solomon, and I will give unto thee ten tribes:
Howbeit, one tribe, shall he retain,—for the sake of my servant David, and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city that I have chosen, out of all the tribes of Israel:
Because they have forsaken me, and bowed themselves down to Ashtoreth, goddess of the Zidonians, to Chemosh, god of the Moabites, and to Milcom, god of the sons of Ammon,—and have not walked in my ways, by doing what is right in mine eyes, even my statutes and my regulations, like David his father.
Yet will I not take all the kingdom out of his hand,—but will suffer him to be, leader, all the days of his life, for the sake of David my servant, whom I chose,—who kept my commandments and my statutes.
But I will take the kingdom out of the hand of his son, and will give it to thee, even the ten tribes.
Nevertheless, go his son, will I give one tribe,—to the end there may remain a lamp unto David my servant always before me, in Jerusalem, the city that I have chosen for myself, to put my Name there.
But, thee, will I take, and thou shalt reign over all that thy soul could desire,—and thou shalt be king over Israel.
So shall it be, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I shall command thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do that which is right in mine eyes, by keeping my statutes and my commandments, as did David my servant, then will I be with thee, and will build thee an assured house, as I have built for David, and will give unto thee, Israel.
Thus will I humiliate the seed of David, because of this; yet not for ever.
When therefore Solomon sought to put, Jeroboam, to death, Jeroboam arose and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak king of Egypt,—and remained in Egypt, until the death of Solomon.
Now, the rest of the story of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom, are, they, not written in the book of the records of Solomon?
Now, the days which Solomon reigned in Jerusalem, over all Israel, were forty years.
So then Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David his father,—and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.