Now these are the generations of the sonnes of Noah, Shem, Ham and Iapheth: vnto whom sonnes were borne after the flood.
The sonnes of Iapheth were Gomer and Magog, and Madai, and Iauan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
And the sonnes of Gomer, Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
Also the sonnes of Iauan, Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
Of these were the yles of the Gentiles deuided in their landes, euery man after his tongue, and after their families in their nations.
Moreouer, ye sonnes of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
And the sonnes of Cush, Seba and Hauilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha: also the sonnes of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan.
And Cush begate Nimrod, who began to be mightie in the earth.
He was a mightie hunter before the Lord. wherefore it is saide, As Nimrod the mightie hunter before the Lord.
And the beginning of his kingdome was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
Out of that land came Asshur, and builded Niniueh, and the citie Rehoboth, and Calah:
Resen also betweene Niniueh and Calah: this is a great citie.
And Mizraim begate Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim.
Pathrusim also, and Casluhim (out of whom came the Philistims) and Caphtorims.
Also Canaan begat Zidon his first borne, and Heth,
And Iebusi, and Emori, and Girgashi,
And Hiui, and Arki, and Sini,
And Aruadi, and Zemari, and Hamathi: and afterwarde were the families of the Canaanites spred abroade.
Then the border of the Canaanites was from Zidon, as thou commest to Gerar vntil Azzah, and as thou goest vnto Sodom, and Gomorah, and Admah, and Zeboijm, euen vnto Lasha.
These are the sonnes of Ham according to their families, according to their tongues in their countries and in their nations.
Vnto Shem also the father of all the sonnes of Eber, and elder brother of Iapheth were children borne.
The sonnes of Shem were Elam and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram.
And the sonnes of Aram, Vz and Hul, and Gether and Mash.
Also Arpachshad begate Shelah, and Shelah begate Eber.
Vnto Eber also were borne two sonnes: the name of the one was Peleg: for in his dayes was the earth diuided: and his brothers name was Ioktan.
Then Ioktan begate Almodad and Sheleph, and Hazarmaueth, and Ierah,
And Hadoram, and Vzal, and Dicklah,
And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
And Ophir, and Hauilah, and Iobab: all these were the sonnes of Ioktan.
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest vnto Sephar a mount of the East.
These are the sonnes of Shem according to their families, according to their tongues, in their countreis and nations.
These are the families of the sonnes of Noah, after their generations among their people: and out of these were the nations diuided in the earth after the flood.