Thou, therefore, my child, be empowering thyself in the favour that is in Christ Jesus,
And, the things which thou hast heard from me among many witnesses, the same, entrust thou unto faithful men, such as shall be, competent, to teach, others also.
Take thy part in suffering hardship, as a brave soldier of Christ Jesus:—
No one that is serving as a soldier, entangleth himself with the matters of his livelihood, that he may please him that hath summoned him to serve as a soldier;
If, moreover, any man, contend even in the games, he is not crowned, unless, lawfully, he contend;
The toiling husbandman, ought, first, of the fruits, to partake:
Think, as to what I am speaking; for the Lord will give thee discernment in all things.
Keep in mind Jesus Christ—raised from among the dead, of the seed of David,—according to my joyful message:
In which I am suffering hardship, even unto bonds, as an evil-doer; but, the word of God, is not bound.
For this cause, am I enduring, all things, for the sake of the chosen, in order that, they also, may obtain, the salvation, which is in Christ Jesus along with glory age-abiding.
Faithful, the saying—for, If we have died together, we shall also live together,
If we endure, we shall also reign together; If we shall deny, he also, will deny us,
If we are faithless, he, faithful, abideth,—for, deny himself, he cannot!
Of these things, be putting [them] in remembrance, adjuring [them] before God not to be waging word-battles,—useful, for nothing, occasioning a subversion of them that hearken.
Give diligence, thyself, approved, to present unto God,—a workman not to be put to shame, skillfully handling the word of truth.
But, the profane pratings, shun; for, unto more ungodliness, will they force themselves on;
And, their discourse, as a gangrene, will eat its way;—of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
Men who, concerning the truth, have erred, affirming, a resurrection, already, to have taken place, and are overthrowing the faith, of some.
Howbeit, the firm foundation of God, standeth, having this seal—The Lord hath acknowledged them who are his, and, Let every one that nameth the name of the Lord stand aloof from unrighteousness.
But, in a great house, there are not only gold and silver vessels, but, also wooden and earthen: and, some, indeed, for honour, while, some, are for dishonour:
If, therefore, anyone will, for pureness, sever himself from these, he shall be a vessel for honour, hallowed, meet for the Master’s use, for every good work, prepared.
But, from the youthful covetings, flee! and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, along with them who call upon the Lord out of a pure heart.
But, from the foolish and undisciplined questionings, excuse thyself, knowing that they gender strifes;
And, a servant of the Lord, ought not to strive, but to be, gentle, towards all, apt in teaching, ready to endure malice,—
In meekness, bringing under discipline them that oppose themselves, lest at any time God should give them repentance unto a personal knowledge of truth,
And they should wake up to sobriety out of, the adversary’s, snare,—though they have been taken alive by him for, that one’s, will.