And He went out from there and came into His native-place. And His disciples followed Him.
And when the sabbath day had come, He began to teach in the synagogue. And many hearing Him, were astonished, saying, Where does this one get these things? And what wisdom is this which is given to him, that even such mighty works are done by his hands?
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended at Him.
But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his native-place, and among his own kin, and in his own house.
And He could do no work of power there, except that He laid His hands on a few sick ones, He healed them.
And He marveled because of their unbelief. And He went around the villages, in a circuit, teaching.
And He called the Twelve and began to send them out by two and two. And He gave them authority over unclean spirits,
and commanded them that they take nothing in the way, except only a staff; no bag, no bread, no copper in the belt,
but tying on sandals, and not to put on two tunics.
And He said to them, Wherever you enter into a house, abide there until you depart from that place.
And whoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when you depart from there, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them. Truly I say to you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
And they went out and proclaimed that men should repent.
And they cast out many demons, and anointed many who were sick with oil, and healed them.
And king Herod heard of Him (for His name had become well-known,) and he said that John the Baptist had been raised from the dead, and therefore mighty works operate in him.
Others said that it was Elijah. And others said that he is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.
But hearing Herod said, It is John, whom I beheaded. He has risen from the dead!
For Herod himself had sent out and laid hold on John and had bound him in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. For he had married her,
and John had said to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.
And Herodias held it against him, and desired to kill him, but she could not.
For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just and holy man. And he kept him safe. And when he heard him, he did many things and heard him gladly.
And a convenient day came, when Herod made a supper to great men on his birthday, and to the chiliarchs, and to the first ones of Galilee.
And when the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced and pleased Herod, and those who reclined with him, the king said to the girl, Ask me whatever you desire from me, and I will give it to you.
And he swore to her, Whatever you shall ask from me, I will give it to you, to the half of my kingdom.
And she went out and said to her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptist.
And immediately going in with haste to the king, she asked, saying, I desire that you give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.
And becoming deeply grieved, the king, because of his oath, and those reclining together, he did not wish to reject her.
And immediately the king sent an executioner and commanded his head to be brought. And he went and beheaded him in the prison,
and brought his head in a platter and gave it to the girl. And the girl gave it to her mother.
And when his disciples heard, they came and took up his corpse and laid it in a tomb.
And the apostles gathered themselves to Jesus and told Him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught.
And He said to them, Come aside into a deserted place and rest a little. For there were many coming and going, and they had no opportunity even to eat.
And they departed by boat into a deserted place.
And the crowds saw them leaving, and many knew Him. And they ran together on foot there, out of the cities. And they went before them and came together to Him.
And going out Jesus saw a large crowd. And He was moved with compassion toward them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And He began to teach them many things.
And it now becoming a late hour, His disciples came to Him and said, This is a deserted place and it is now a late hour.
Send them away so that they may go to the surrounding fields and villages and buy loaves for themselves. For they have nothing to eat.
He answered and said to them, You give them food to eat. And they said to Him, Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii of loaves and give them to eat?
He said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they knew, they said, Five, and two fish.
And He commanded them all to recline, group by group, on the green grass.
And they reclined group by group, by hundred and by fifty.
And taking the five loaves and the two fish, He looked up to Heaven, He blessed and broke the loaves, and gave them to His disciples to set before them. And He divided the two fish to all.
And they all ate and were filled.
And they took up twelve hand baskets full of fragments, also from the fish.
And those eating the loaves were about five thousand men.
And immediately He constrained His disciples to get into the boat and to go before to the other side, to Bethsaida, while He sent away the crowd.
And taking leave of them, He went away to the mountain to pray.
And when evening had come, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and He was alone on the land.
And He saw them toiling in rowing, for the wind was contrary to them. And about the fourth watch of the night He came toward them walking on the sea, and would have passed by them.
But when they saw Him walking on the sea, they supposed that it was a phantom, and cried out.
For they all saw Him and were troubled. And immediately He talked with them, and said, Be of good cheer. I AM! Do not be afraid.
And He went up into the boat to them. And the wind was cut off. And they were very much amazed within themselves beyond measure, and marveled.
For they did not understand the miracle of the loaves, for their hearts were hardened.
And crossing over, they came into the land of Gennesaret and drew to the shore.
And when they had come out of the boat, at once knowing Him,
they ran all around that neighborhood, and began to carry on cots those who were sick, wherever they heard He was.
And wherever He entered, into villages or cities or country, they laid the sick in the streets and begged Him if only they might touch but the fringe of His garment. And as many as touched Him were made whole.