And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre, So says the Lord Jehovah, Because your heart is lifted up, and you have said, I am a god, I sit in the seat of gods, in the heart of the seas; yet you are a man, and not God, though you give your heart as the heart of gods.
Behold, you are wiser than Daniel. Every one of the secret things are not hidden to you.
With your wisdom and with your understanding you have made riches for yourself, and have worked gold and silver into your treasuries.
By your great wisdom, by your trade you have multiplied your riches, and your heart is lifted up because of your riches.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Because you have given your heart as the heart of gods,
behold, so I will bring on you awesome strangers of the nations. And they shall draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom and will profane your splendor.
They will cause you to go down to the Pit, and you shall die the deaths of the slain in the heart of the seas.
Will you still say, I am of the gods before him who strikes you? But you are a man, and not God, in the hands of him who pierces you.
You shall die the deaths of the uncircumcised, by the hand of strangers. For I have spoken, says the Lord Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, lift up a lament over the king of Tyre, and say to him, So says the Lord Jehovah: You seal the measure, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty.
You have been in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was your covering, the ruby, the topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the turquoise, and the emerald, and gold. The workmanship of your tambourines and of your flutes in you. In the day you were created, they were prepared.
You were the anointed cherub that covers, and I had put you in the holy heights of God, where you were. You walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.
You were perfect in your ways from the day you were created, until iniquity was found in you.
By the multitude of your trade, they filled your midst with violence, and you sinned. So I cast you defiled from the height of God, and I destroyed you, O covering cherub, from among the stones of fire.
Your heart was lifted up because of your beauty; you corrupted your wisdom because of your splendor. I have cast you to the ground. I will put you before kings, that they may see you.
By the host of your iniquities, by the iniquity of your trade, you have profaned your holy places. So I brought a fire from your midst and it shall devour you, and I will give you for ashes on the earth in the sight of all who see you.
All who know you among the peoples shall be appalled at you. You shall be terrors, and you will not be forever.
And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face against Sidon and prophesy against her,
and say, So says the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, and I will be glorified in your midst. And they shall know that I am Jehovah when I have done judgments in her and shall be sanctified by her.
And I will send a plague into her, and blood into her streets. And the slain will fall in her midst by the sword, on her from all around. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
And there will not be a pricking brier or a painful thorn to the house of Israel any more from all who surround them, those who hate them. And they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
So says the Lord Jehovah: When I have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are dispersed, and have been sanctified in them in the sight of the nations, then they shall dwell on their land which I have given to My servant Jacob.
And they shall dwell in it securely and shall build houses and plant vineyards. Yes, they shall dwell securely, when I have done judgments on all those who hate them round about them. And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God.