And Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, Keep all the commandment which I command you this day.
And it shall be on the day when ye shall pass over the Jordan to the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee, that thou shall set up for thee great stones, and plaster them with plaster.
And thou shall write upon them all the words of this law when thou have passed over, that thou may go in to the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee, a land flowing with milk and honey, as Jehovah, the God of thy fathers, has promised thee.
And it shall be, when ye have passed over the Jordan, that ye shall set up these stones, which I command you this day, in mount Ebal, and thou shall plaster them with plaster.
And there thou shall build an altar to Jehovah thy God, an altar of stones. Thou shall lift up no iron upon them.
Thou shall build the altar of Jehovah thy God of unhewn stones. And thou shall offer burnt offerings on it to Jehovah thy God.
And thou shall sacrifice peace offerings, and shall eat there, and thou shall rejoice before Jehovah thy God.
And thou shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly.
And Moses and the priests the Levites spoke to all Israel, saying, Keep silence, and hearken, O Israel. This day thou have become the people of Jehovah thy God.
Thou shall therefore obey the voice of Jehovah thy God, and do his commandments and his statutes, which I command thee this day.
And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,
These shall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless the people, when ye have passed over the Jordan: Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph, and Benjamin.
And these shall stand upon mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
And the Levites shall answer, and say to all the men of Israel with a loud voice,
Cursed be the man who makes a graven or molten image, an abomination to Jehovah, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret. And all the people shall answer and say, Truly.
Cursed be he who dishonors his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who removes his neighbor's landmark. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who makes the blind to wander out of the way. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who distorts the justice to the sojourner, fatherless, and widow. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who lies with his father's wife, because he has uncovered his father's skirt. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who lies with any manner of beast. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who lies with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who smites his neighbor in secret. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed be he who takes a bribe to kill an innocent man. And all the people shall say, Truly.
Cursed is every man who does not continue in all the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say, Truly.