Truly, truly do I say to you, He that entereth not through the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber;
but he that entereth through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice; and his own sheep he calleth by name, and leadeth them out.
When he hath put forth all his own, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice.
But a stranger they will not follow, but will flee from him; because they know not the voice of strangers.
This parable Jesus spoke to them; but they did not understand what the things were which he spoke to them.
Jesus therefore said, Truly, truly do I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
All those who came are thieves and robbers; but the sheep did not hear them.
I am the door; if any one enter through me, he will be saved, and will go in and out, and find pasture.
The thief cometh not but to steal, and to kill, and to destroy; I came that they might have life, and have abundance.
I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.
He that is a hireling and not a shepherd, nor the owner of the sheep, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth; and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep;
because he is a hireling, and careth not for the sheep.
I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and they know me,
even as the Father knoweth me, and I know the Father; and I give my life for the sheep.
And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold; them also I must bring; and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock, one shepherd.
On this account the Father loveth me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again.
No one taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it again; this charge I received from my Father.
Again there arose a division among the Jews on account of these words.
Many of them said, He hath a demon, and is mad; why do ye hear him?
Others said, These are not the words of one that hath a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?
And the feast of the dedication came at Jerusalem. It was winter;
and Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon’s porch.
Then came the Jews around him, and said to him, How long dost thou hold our minds in suspense? If thou art the Christ, tell us plainly.
Jesus answered them, I have told you, and ye do not believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name, these bear witness of me.
But ye do not believe, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said to you.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me;
and I give them everlasting life; and they shall never perish, nor shall any one tear them out of my hand.
That which my Father hath given me is greater than all; and no one is able to tear [them] out of the Father’s hand.
I and the Father are one.
The Jews again took up stones to stone him.
Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shown you from the Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?
The Jews answered him, Not for a good work do we stone thee, but for blasphemy, and because thou, who art a man, makest thyself God.
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your Law, "I said, ye are gods"?
If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and the Scripture cannot be made void,
say ye of him whom the Father sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest, because I said, I am the Son of God?
If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
But if I do them, though ye believe not me, believe the works; that ye may learn and know that the Father is in me, and I in the Father.
They sought therefore to seize him; and he went forth out of their hands.
And he went away again beyond the Jordan, to the place where John was at first baptizing; and there he abode.
And many came to him, and said, John indeed wrought no sign; but everything that John said of this man was true.
And many believed in him there.