And Sarai, Abram's wife, did not bear to him; and to her belonged a female slave, an Egyptian, and her name was Hagar.
And Sarai said to Abram, See, now, Jehovah has kept me from bearing; go in now to my slave-girl; perhaps I may be built up from her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
And Sarai, Abram's wife, took her slave-girl, Hagar, the Egyptian, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife, after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan.
And he went in to Hagar and she conceived; and she saw that she had conceived, and her mistress was despised in her eyes.
And Sarai said to Abram, My injury be upon you; I gave my slave-girl into your bosom, and she saw that she had conceived, and I was despised in her eyes. Let Jehovah judge between me and you.
But Abram said to Sarai, See, your slave girl is in your hand. Do to her what is good in your eyes. And Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from before her.
And the Angel of Jehovah found her by a well of water in the wilderness; by the well in the way of Shur.
And He said, Hagar, Sarai's slave-girl, where did you come from? And where do you go? And she said, I am fleeing from the face of my mistress, Sarai.
And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, Return to your mistress and submit yourself under her hand.
And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, I will exceedingly multiply your seed, so that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, Behold! You are with child and shall bear a son; and you shall call his name Ishmael, because Jehovah has attended to your affliction.
And he shall be a wild ass of a man, his hand against all, and the hand of everyone against him; and he shall live before all his brothers.
And she called the name of Jehovah, the One speaking to her, You, a God of vision! For she said, Even here I have looked after the One seeing me?
On account of this, the well was called, The Well of the Living One Seeing Me. Behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
And Hagar bore a son to Abram, and Abram called the name of his son whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
And Abram was eighty six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.