And when the sabbath [of the great feast of the passover] was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary [the] mother of James, and Salome had bought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him.
And very early in the morning the first of the sabbaths, they come unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun.
And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre?
And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away, for it was very great.
And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting to the right hand [side], covered in a long white garment; and they were frightened.
But he said unto them, Do not be frightened; Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified; he is risen; he is not here; behold the place where they laid him.
But go tell his disciples and Peter that he goes before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him as he said unto you.
And they went out quickly and fled from the sepulchre, for they trembled and were amazed; neither said they any thing to anyone, for they were afraid.
Now as [Jesus] rose early the first of the sabbaths, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils.
[And] she went and told those that had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
And they, when they had heard that he was alive and had been seen of her, did not believe.
After that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as they walked and went into the country.
And they went and told [it] unto the others, yet they did not believe them.
Finally he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at the table and upbraided them for their unbelief and hardness of heart because they did not believe those who had seen him after he was risen.
And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.
He that believes and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believes not shall be condemned.
And these signs shall follow those that believe: In my name they shall cast out demons; they shall speak with new tongues;
they shall take away serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands upon the sick, and they shall be healed.
So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.
And they, going forth, preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word with the signs which followed them. [Amen].: