Likewise, you wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, if any obey not the word, they may, without the word, be won by the conduct of their wives,
by observing your blameless and reverential conduct.
Let not your adorning be that which is outward, which consists in plaiting the hair, and wearing gold, and putting on apparel:
but let it be the hidden man of the heart, adorned with the incorruptible ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which, in the sight of God, is of great price.
For, in former times, the holy women also, who trusted in God, thus adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands,
as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: and you are her children, if you do good, and fear no dismay.
Likewise, you husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, bestowing honor on the wife as the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life, in order that your prayers may not be hindered.
Finally, be all of the same mind, be sympathizing, lovers of the brethren, kind-hearted, humble-minded;
not repaying evil for evil, nor reviling for reviling, but, on the other hand, blessing, since you know that for this end you were called, that you might inherit blessing.
For he that will love life, and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking guile:
let him turn from evil and do good: let him seek peace, and pursue it.
For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry: but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.
And who is he that will harm you, if you be followers of that which is good?
But yet, if you even suffer for righteousness, happy are you. Yet fear not their terror, nor be troubled:
but reverence the Lord God in your hearts, and be always ready to answer every one that asks of you a reason for the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear;
having a good conscience, that, inasmuch as they speak against you as evil-doers, they may be ashamed who traduce your good con duct in Christ.
For it is better, if such be the will of God, that you suffer for doing good, than for doing evil.
For Christ also once suffered for sins, the Just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, having been put to death in flesh, but made alive in spirit;
in which also he went and preached to the spirits in prison,
who formerly were disobedient, when the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while an ark was preparing, in which few, that is, eight souls, were brought in safety through the water;
the likeness of which, even immersion, (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the seeking of a good conscience toward God,) does now also save us, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
who has gone into heaven, and is at the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers having become subject to him.