Why since times are not hidden from the Almighty, even those knowing Him do not see His days?
They move the landmarks; they seize and pasture flocks;
If they drive away the ass of orphans; they take the widow's ox for a pledge;
They turn the needy out of the way; the poor of the earth have hidden together.
Behold, like wild asses in the desert, they go out in their work, seeking early for prey; the desert yields food for him for their young.
They reap his fodder in the field, and they glean the wicked's vineyard.
They lodge naked ones without clothing, and give no cover against the cold.
They are wet with the showers of hills, and embrace the rock for lack of shelter.
They seize the orphan from the breast, and lay a pledge on the poor.
They make them go without clothing, and hungry they lift up the sheaves.
They press out oil between their walls; they tread winepresses, but are thirsty.
Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded cries for help; yet God does not charge unseemliness.
They are among rebellers against light; they do not recognize His ways, nor do they stay in His paths.
The murderer rising with the light kills the poor and needy, and in the night he is a thief.
And the adulterer's eye keeps watch for twilight, saying, No eye will see me; and he puts a covering on his face.
In the dark he digs through houses; they shut themselves up by day; they do not know the light.
For alike are morning and the shadow of death to them; for he knows the terrors of death shadow.
He is swift on the waters; their part is cursed in the earth; he does not face the way of the vineyards.
Drought and heat eat up the snow waters; Sheol those who have sinned.
The womb shall forget him; the worm shall suck on him; he shall be remembered no more; and injustice shall be broken like a tree.
He ill treats the barren that bear not, and does no good to the widow.
He also draws the mighty with his strength; He rises up, and no one is sure of life.
He gives security to him, and he leans on it ; yet His eyes are on their ways.
They are lifted up for a little while, but they are not; and they are brought low; they are gathered in like all others , and wither like the heads of ears of grain.
And if not, then who will prove me a liar, and make my speech into nothing?