Do you know the time when the wild goats of the rock bear? Do you observe the calving of deer?
Can you tell the months they fulfill; or do you know the time for their bearing,
when they crouch and bring forth; they send out their pangs?
Their young ones are strong; they multiply with grain; they go forth and do not return to them.
Who has sent out the wild ass free, or who has untied the bands of the wild ass?
To whom I have assigned the desert for his home, and the salt land for his dwellings?
He laughs at the turmoil of the city; he does not hear the driver's shouts;
he seeks out mountains for his pasture; and he searches after every green thing.
Will the wild ox consent to be your servant, or spend the night by your feed-trough?
Can you tie the wild ox in the furrow with his rope? Or will he harrow the valleys for you?
Will you trust him because his strength is great; or will you leave your labor to him?
Or will you have faith in him, that he will return your seed, and gather it to your grain-floor?
The wing of the ostriches flap joyously, though not like the stork's pinions for flight.
For she leaves her eggs to the earth, and lets them warm on the dust;
and forgets that a foot may crush it, or the beast of the field may trample it;
she treats her young roughly, as if not hers; for her labor is vanity without fear;
because God has made her forget wisdom; and He has not given to her a share in understanding.
At the time she lifts up on high, she laughs at the horse and its rider.
Have you given the horse its strength: have you clothed its neck with a mane
Can you make him leap like a locust; the majesty of his snorting is terrifying?
They paw in the valley and he rejoices in his strength; he goes out to meet the weapons;
he mocks at fear, and is not terrified; and he does not turn back from the sword.
The quiver rattles against him, the flashing spear and the javelin.
He swallows the ground with quivering and trembling, and he does not stand still for the sound of the ram's horn.
When the ram's horn sounds , he says, Aha! And he smells the battle from a distance, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.
Does the hawk soar from your understanding? Will he spread his wings toward the south?
Or does the eagle mount up at your mouth, and make his nest on high?
He lives and stays on the rock, on the crag of the rock and the stronghold.
From there he seeks food; his eyes see afar off.
And his young brood also sucks up blood; and where the pierced ones are , there he is .