And one of the seven messengers who had the seven bowls came, and spake with me, saying—Hither! I will point out to thee the judgment of the great harlot, who sitteth upon many waters,
with whom the kings of the earth committed lewdness,—and they who were dwelling upon the earth were made drunk with the wine of her lewdness.
And he carried me away into a desert, in spirit. And I saw a woman, sitting upon a scarlet wild-beast full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
And, the woman, was arrayed with purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stone and pearls,—having a cup of gold in her hand, full of abominations and the impurities of her lewdness;
and, upon her forehead, a name written, a secret: Babylon the great, the Mother of the Harlots and of the Abominations of the earth.
And I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And I was astonished, when I beheld her, with great astonishment.
And the messenger said unto me—Wherefore wast thou astonished? I, will tell thee the secret of the woman, and of the wild-beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and the ten horns.
The wild-beast which thou sawest, was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss, and into, destruction, goeth away. And they who are dwelling upon the earth whose name is not written upon the book of life from the foundation of the world, will be astonished, when they see the wild-beast, because it was, and is not, and shall be present.
Here, is the mind that hath wisdom. The seven heads, are, seven mountains, whereupon the woman sitteth;
and they are, seven kings: the five, have fallen, the one, is, the other, hath not yet come; and, whensoever he shall come, a little while, must he remain,
and the wild-beast which was and is not. And he, is an eighth, and is, of the seven,—and, into destruction, goeth away.
And, the ten horns which thou sawest, are, ten kings,—who, indeed, have not received, sovereignty, as yet, but, authority, as kings, for one hour, shall receive, with the wild-beast.
These, have, one mind, and, their power and authority, unto the wild-beast, they give.
These, with the Lamb, will make war; and, the Lamb, will overcome them, because he is, Lord of lords, and King of kings,—and, they who are with him, are called and chosen and faithful.
And he saith unto me—The waters which thou sawest, where the harlot sitteth, are, peoples and multitudes, and nations and tongues.
And the ten horns which thou sawest, and the wild-beast, these, shall hate the harlot, and, desolate, shall make her, and naked, and, her flesh, shall they eat, and, herself, shall they burn up with fire.
For, God, hath put into their hearts, to do his mind, and to do one mind,—and to give their sovereignty unto the wild-beast, until the words of God shall be completed.
And, the woman whom thou sawest, is the great city, which hath sovereignty over the kings of the earth.