And Jehovah said to Aaron, You, and your sons, and your father's house with you shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary. And you, and your sons with you, shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood;
and also your brothers, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, you shall bring near with you, that they may be joined to you and may minister to you, you and your sons in your being before the tabernacle of the testimony.
And they shall keep your charge and the charge of all the tabernacle; only, they shall not go near to the vessels of the sanctuary and to the altar. And they shall not die either they or you.
And they shall be joined to you, and shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of the congregation, for all the service of the tabernacle, and a stranger shall not go near to you.
And you shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar, and there shall be no more wrath against the sons of Israel.
And I, behold, I have taken your brothers the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel; as a gift they are given to you by Jehovah, to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And you, and your sons with you, shall keep your priesthood, in everything that pertains to the altar, and to that inside the veil. And you shall serve; I have given you the priesthood as a service of gift; and the stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, saying, And I, behold, I have given to you the charge of My heave offerings, of all the dedicated things of the sons of Israel. I have given them to you for the anointing, and to your sons, by a never ending statute.
This shall be yours of the most holy things, from the fire: every offering of theirs, even every food offering of theirs, and every sin offering of theirs, and every guilt offering of theirs, which they may render to Me; it shall be most holy to you, and to your sons.
You shall eat it in the Holy of Holies; every male shall eat it; it shall be holy to you.
And this is yours, the heave offering of their gift with all the wave offerings of the sons of Israel. I have given them to you, and to your sons, and to your daughters with you, by a never ending statute; every clean one in your house shall eat it.
All the best of the oil, and all the best of the new wine, and wheat, the firstfruits of them which they give to Jehovah, I have given to you.
The firstfruits of all that is in their land, which they bring in to Jehovah shall be yours; every clean one in your house shall eat it;
every devoted thing in Israel shall be yours;
every one opening a womb of all flesh which they offer to Jehovah, among man and among animal, shall be yours. Only, you shall certainly redeem the first-born of man, and you shall redeem the firstling of the unclean beasts.
And their redeemed ones, from a month old, you shall redeem with your valuation of silver, five shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary; it is twenty gerahs.
But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, you shall not redeem; they are holy. You shall sprinkle their blood on the altar, and you shall burn their fat as incense, a fire offering of soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And their flesh shall be yours, as the breast of the wave offering, and as the right leg; it shall be yours.
All the heave offerings of the holy things which the sons of Israel shall lift up to Jehovah, I have given to you and to your sons, and to your daughters with you, by a never ending statute, a covenant of salt, it shall be forever before Jehovah to you and to your seed with you.
And Jehovah said to Aaron, You shall have no inheritance in their land, nor shall you have any portion among them; I am your portion and your inheritance among the sons of Israel.
And, behold, I have given all the tithe in Israel to the sons of Levi for an inheritance, in return for their service which they are serving, the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the sons of Israel shall not come near to the tabernacle of the congregation any more, lest they bear sin, and die.
But the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they shall bear their iniquity; it shall be a never ending statute throughout your generations, that in the midst of the sons of Israel they shall have no inheritance;
but the tithes of the sons of Israel which they shall lift up to Jehovah, a heave offering, I have given to the Levites for inheritance; therefore I have said to them, They shall have no inheritance among the sons of Israel.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
And you shall say to the Levites; and you shall speak to them, When you take the tithe from the sons of Israel, which I have given to you from them, for your inheritance, then you shall lift from it a heave offering of Jehovah, a tithe of the tithe.
And your heave offering shall be counted to you as grain from the threshing floor, and as fullness from the winepress.
So you also shall lift up the heave offering of Jehovah from all your tithes which you receive from the sons of Israel. And you shall give from it the heave offering of Jehovah to Aaron the priest.
You shall lift up the whole heave offering of Jehovah out of all your gifts, out of all its fat, its holy part, out of it.
And you shall say to them, When you lift up its fat out of it, then it shall be counted to the Levites as increase of a threshing floor, and as increase of a winepress.
And you shall eat it in every place, you and your households, for it is your reward in return for your service in the tabernacle of the congregation.
And you shall bear no sin because of it, since you have lifted up from it the best of it. And you shall not profaned the holy things of the sons of Israel so that you may not die.