Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ according to a command of God our Savior, even the Lord Jesus Christ, our Hope,
to Timothy, a true child in the faith: Grace, mercy, peace from God our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ.
Even as I called on you to remain in Ephesus, (I going to Macedonia), that you might charge some not to teach other doctrines,
nor to give heed to fables and to endless genealogies, which occasion doubts, rather than a stewardship of God in faith,
but the end of the commandment is love out of a pure heart and a good conscience, and faith not pretended,
from which having missed the mark, some turned aside to empty talking,
wishing to be teachers of law, neither understanding what they say, nor about that which they confidently affirm.
And we know that the Law is good, if anyone uses it lawfully,
knowing this, that law is not laid down for a righteous one, but for lawless and undisciplined ones, for ungodly and sinful ones, for unholy and profane ones, for slayers of fathers and slayers of mothers, for murderers,
for fornicators, for homosexuals, for slave-traders, for liars, for perjurers, and if any other thing opposes sound doctrine,
according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I was entrusted.
And I have thanks to Him empowering me, our Lord Jesus Christ, because He counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry,
the one who before was a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and insolent; but I received mercy, because being ignorant I did it in unbelief.
But the grace of our Lord abounded exceedingly with faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Faithful is the Word and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
But for this reason I received mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all long-suffering, for an example to those being about to believe on Him to everlasting life.
Now to the King eternal, incorruptible, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
This charge I commit to you, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies going before as to you, that you might war the good warfare by them,
having faith and a good conscience, which some having thrust away, made shipwreck concerning the faith,
of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I delivered to Satan, that they may be taught not to blaspheme.