In his time Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years; then he turned and rebelled against him.
And the LORD sent against him armies of the Chaldees and armies of the Syrians and armies of the Moabites and armies of the sons of Ammon and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by his servants the prophets.
Surely at the commandment of the LORD [this] came upon Judah, to remove [them] out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did
and also for the innocent blood that he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, which the LORD would not pardon.
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and all that he did, [are] they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin, his son, reigned in his stead.
And the king of Egypt never came out of his land again, for the king of Babylon had taken all that pertained to the king of Egypt from the river of Egypt unto the river Euphrates.
Jehoiachin [was] eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. His mother's name [was] Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
And he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father had done.
At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came up against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.
Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, also came against the city [when] his servants had besieged it.
So Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother and his servants and his princes and his eunuchs; and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign.
And he carried out of there all the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon, king of Israel, had made in the temple of the LORD, as the LORD had said.
And he carried away all Jerusalem and all the princes and all the mighty men of valour, ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths; none remained except the poorest sort of the people of the land.
He likewise carried Jehoiachin away to Babylon and the king's mother and the king's wives and his officers, and the mighty of the land; he carried them all into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.
All the men of might, [which were] seven thousand, and craftsmen and smiths [which were] one thousand, all [that were] strong [and] apt for war, the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.
And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah, his father's brother, king in his stead and changed his name to Zedekiah.
Zedekiah [was] twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name [was] Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
And he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
For the anger of the LORD was against Jerusalem and Judah until he cast them out from his presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.: