My son, if you be surety for your friend, if you have stricken your hand with a stranger,
You are snared with the words of your mouth, you are taken with the words of your mouth.
Do this now, my son, and deliver yourself, when you are come into the hand of your friend; go, humble yourself, and make sure your friend.
Give not sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids.
Deliver yourself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.   ¶
Go to the ant, you sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise:
Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler,
Provides her meat in the summer, and gathers her food in the harvest.
How long will you sleep, O sluggard? when will you arise out of your sleep?
Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
So shall your poverty come as one that travels, and your want as an armed man.   ¶
A naughty person, a wicked man, walks with a fraudulent mouth.
He winks with his eyes, he speaks with his feet, he teaches with his fingers;
Frowardness is in his heart, he devises mischief continually; he sows discord.
Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy.   ¶
These six things does the LORD hate: yes, seven are an abomination to him:
A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,
An heart that devises wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief,
A false witness that speaks lies, and he that sows discord among brothers.   ¶
My son, keep your father’s commandment, and forsake not the law of your mother:
Bind them continually on your heart, and tie them about your neck.
When you go, it shall lead you; when you sleep, it shall keep you; and when you wake, it shall talk with you.
For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life:
To keep you from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.
Lust not after her beauty in your heart; neither let her take you with her eyelids.
For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of bread: and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life.
Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
Can one go on hot coals, and his feet not be burned?
So he that goes in to his neighbor’s wife; whoever touches her shall not be innocent.
Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry;
But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house.
But whoever commits adultery with a woman lacks understanding: he that does it destroys his own soul.
A wound and dishonor shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away.
For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance.
He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though you give many gifts.