And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Again you shall say to the sons of Israel, Any man of the sons of Israel or of the strangers who live in Israel, that gives any of his seed to Molech, he shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.
And I will set My face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people, because he has given of his seed to Molech, to defile My sanctuary, and to profane My holy name.
And if the people of the land in any way hide their eyes from the man when he gives of his seed to Molech, and do not kill him,
then I will set My face against that man and against his family, and will cut him off, and all that go lusting after him to commit adultery with Molech, from among their people.
And the soul that turns to those who have familiar spirits, and to spiritists, to go lusting after them, I will even set My face against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.
And you shall sanctify yourselves, and be holy. For I am the LORD your God.
And you shall keep My statutes and do them. I the LORD sanctify you.
And any man who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. He has cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be on him.
And a man who commits adultery with a man's wife, who commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
And the man who lies with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness. Both of them shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be on them.
And if a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death. They have made a shameful mixture; their blood shall be on them.
If a man also lies with mankind, as he lies with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination. They shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be on them.
And if a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness. They shall be burned with fire, both he and they, so that there may be no wickedness among you.
And if a man lies with an animal, he shall surely be put to death. And you shall kill the animal.
And if a woman goes up to any animal and lies down with it, you shall kill the woman and the animal. They shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be on them.
And if a man shall take his sister, his father's daughter, or his mother's daughter, and see her nakedness, and she see his nakedness, it is a wicked thing. And they shall be cut off in the sight of their people. He has uncovered his sister's nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
And if a man shall lie with a menstruous woman, and shall uncover her nakedness, he has discovered her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood. And both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
And you shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, nor of your father's sister. For he uncovers his near kin. They shall bear their iniquity.
And if a man shall lie with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness. They shall bear their sin. They shall die childless.
And if a man shall take his brother's wife, it is an unclean thing. He has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
You shall therefore keep all My statutes and all My judgments, and do them, so that the land where I bring you to live shall not spit you out.
And you shall not walk in the ways of the nation which I cast out before you. For they committed all these things, and therefore I loathed them.
But I have said to you, You shall inherit their land, and I, I am giving it to you to possess it, a land that flows with milk and honey. I am the LORD your God, who has separated you from the nations.
And you shall make a difference between clean animals and unclean, and between unclean fowls and clean. And you shall not defile your souls by beast, or by fowl, or by any kind of living thing that creeps on the ground, which I have separated from you as unclean.
And you shall be holy to Me. For I, the LORD, am holy, and have severed you from the nations, so that you should be Mine.
A man also or woman that has a medium or that is a familiar spirit, shall surely be put to death. They shall stone them with stones. Their blood is on them.