And I commend to you Phoebe our sister,—being a minister [also] of the assembly which is in Cenchreae;
In order that ye may give her welcome in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and stand by her in any matter wherein she may have need of you; for, she also, hath proved to be a defender of many, and of my own self.
Salute ye Prisca and Aquila, my fellow-workers in Christ Jesus,—
Who, indeed, for my life, their own neck laid down,—unto whom—not, I only, give thanks, but also all the assemblies of the nations;
[Salute] also the assembly at their house. Salute ye Epaenetus, my beloved, who is a first-fruit of Asia unto Christ.
Salute Mary—who, indeed, hath toiled much for you.
Salute Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and my fellow-captives, who, indeed, are of note among the Apostles, who also before me had come to be in Christ.
Salute Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
Salute Urbanus, our fellow-worker in Christ; and Stachys, my beloved.
Salute Apelles, the approved in Christ. Salute them of [the household of] Aristobulus.
Salute Herodion, my kinsman. Salute them of [the household of] Narcissus who are in the Lord.
Salute Tryphaena and Tryphosa, [sisters] who have toiled in the Lord. Salute Persis, the beloved [sister], who, indeed, hath toiled much in the Lord.
Salute Rufus, the chosen in the Lord; also his and my mother.
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brethren that are with them.
Salute Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympus, and all the saints that are with them.
Salute ye one another, with a holy a kiss. All the assemblies of the Christ salute you.
But I beseech you, brethren, to keep an eye upon them who are causing divisions and occasions of stumbling, aside from the teaching which, ye, have learned,—and be turning away from them;
For, they who are such, unto our Lord Christ are not doing service, but unto their own belly,—and, through their smooth and flattering speech, deceive the hearts of the innocent.
For, your obedience, unto all hath reached,—over you, therefore, I rejoice! But I wish you—to be wise, [indeed], as to that which is good, yet pure, as to that which is evil.
Howbeit, the God of peace, will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The favour of our Lord Jesus, be with you.
There salute you—Timothy, my fellow-worker, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
I, Tertius, who have written the epistle, salute you in the Lord.
There saluteth you—Gaius, my host and [the host] of the whole assembly. There salute you—Erastus, the steward of the city, and Quartus the brother.

Now, unto him who hath power to establish you, according to my glad-message—even the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of a sacred secret, in age-past times kept silent,
But now made manifest, and through means of prophetic scriptures, according to the command of the age-abiding God, for obedience of faith unto all the nations made known,
Unto a God, wise alone, through Jesus Christ, [unto whom] be the glory, unto the ages. Amen.