Let not your heart be troubled: Believe on God, and, on me, believe.
In the house of my Father, are, many dwellings; or else I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you.
And, if I go, and prepare a place for you, again, am I coming, and will take you home unto—myself, that, where, I, am, ye also, may be.
And, whither, I, go, ye know, the way.
Thomas saith unto him—Lord! we know not whither thou goest: How know we, the way?
Jesus saith unto him—I, am the way, and the truth, and the life: No one, cometh unto the Father, but through me.
If ye had been getting to know me, my Father also, had ye known: from henceforth, are ye getting to know him, and have seen him.
Philip saith unto him—Lord! show us the Father, and it sufficeth us.
Jesus saith unto him—So long a time as this, have I been, with you,—and thou hast not come to know me, Philip? He that hath seen me, hath seen the Father. How art, thou, saying, Show us the Father?
Believest thou not, that, I, am in the Father, and, the Father, is, in me? The things which I am saying unto you, from myself, I speak not; but, the Father, within me abiding, doeth his works.
Believe me, That, I, am in the Father, and, the Father, in me;—or else, on account of the works themselves, believe ye.
Verily, verily, I say unto you—He that believeth on me, the works which, I, am doing, he also, shall do; and, greater than these, shall he do, because, I, unto the Father, am going,—
And because, whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, the same, will I do, that, the Father, may be glorified, in the Son:
If anything ye shall ask [me] in my name, the same, will I do.
If ye be loving me, my commandments, ye will keep;
And, I, will request the Father, and, Another Advocate, will he give unto you, that he may be with you age-abidingly,
The Spirit of truth,—which, the world, cannot receive, because it beholdeth it not, nor getteth to know it. But, ye, are getting to know it; because, with you, it abideth, and, in you, it is.
I will not leave you bereft,—I am coming unto you.
Yet a little, and, the world, no longer beholdeth me; but, ye, behold me,—Because, I, live, ye also, shall live.
In that day, shall ye get to know, That, I, am in my Father, and, ye, in me, and, I, in you.
He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he, it is that loveth me; and, he that loveth me, shall be loved by my Father, and, I, will love him, and will manifest, myself, unto him.
Judas, not the Iscariot, saith unto him—Lord! what hath happened, that, unto us, thou art about to manifest thyself, and, not unto the world?
Jesus answered, and said unto him—If any man be loving me, my word, he will keep, and, my Father, will love him,—and, unto him, will we come, and, an abode with him, will we make.
He that loveth me not, doth not keep, my word;—and, the word which ye hear, is not mine, but, the Father’s who sent me.
These things, have I spoken unto you, With you abiding;
But, the Advocate, The Holy Spirit, which the Father will send in my name, He, will teach you all things, and will put you in mind, of all things which, I, told you.
Peace, I leave with you, My own peace, give, I, unto you,—Not as, the world, giveth, give, I, unto you:—Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
Ye heard that, I, said unto you—I go my way, and I come unto you,—Had ye loved me, ye would have rejoiced, that I am going unto the Father, for, the Father, is, greater than I.
But, now, have I told you, before it cometh to pass, that, whensoever it shall come to pass, ye may believe.
No longer, many things, will I speak with you; for, the world’s ruler, is coming, and, in me, hath, nothing,—
But, that the world may get to know that I love the Father, and just as the Father hath given me commandment, so, I do. Be rousing yourselves! let us be leading on from hence.