Halelu-JAH. O give thanks unto the LORD, for [he is] good, for his mercy [endures] for ever.
Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? [Who] can show forth all his praise?
Happy [are] those that keep judgment [and] he that does righteousness at all times.
Remember me, O LORD, with the favour [that thou dost bear unto] thy people; O visit me with thy saving health,
that I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.
We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity; we have done wickedly.
Our fathers did not understand thy wonders in Egypt; they did not remember the multitude of thy mercies but rebelled by the sea, [even] at the Red sea.
Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.
He reprehended the Red sea also, and it was dried up, so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.
And he saved them from the hand of him that hated [them] and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.
Then they believed his words; they sang his praise.
They became rash. They soon forgot his works; they waited not for his counsel:
They gave themselves over to lust in the wilderness and tempted God in the desert.
And he gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul.
Then they envied Moses in the camp [and] Aaron the saint of the LORD.
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram.
And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
They made a calf in Horeb and worshipped the molten image.
Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eats grass.
They forgot the God of their saving health, who had done great things in Egypt,
wondrous works in the land of Ham, [and] terrible things upon the Red sea.
Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath lest he should destroy [them].
And they despised the pleasant land; they did not believe his word:
But murmured in their tents [and] did not hearken unto the voice of the LORD.
Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness,
to overthrow their seed also among the Gentiles, and to scatter them in the lands.
They also joined themselves unto Baalpeor and ate the sacrifices for the dead.
Thus they provoked [him] to anger with their inventions; and the plague broke in upon them.
Then Phinehas stood up and executed judgment, and [so] the plague was stayed.
And that was counted unto him for righteousness from generation to generation for evermore.
They angered [him] also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes:
Because they provoked his spirit to rebel, and he spoke it with his lips.
They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD commanded them:
But were mingled among the Gentiles and learned their works.
And they served their idols, which were a snare unto them.
[Yea], they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils
and shed innocent blood, [even] the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan; and the land was polluted with blood.
Thus they were defiled with their own works and went a whoring with their own inventions.
Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.
And he gave them into the hand of the Gentiles, and those that hated them ruled over them.
Their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.
He delivered them many times, but they rebelled at his counsel and were brought low for their iniquity.
Nevertheless he would look upon their affliction and hear their cry
and remember his covenant with them and repent according to the multitude of his mercies.
He also caused those that carried them captives to have mercy upon them.
Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the Gentiles, that we might lift up thy holy name, that we might glory in thy praise.
Blessed [be] the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting; and let all the people say, Amen. Halelu-JAH. Part Five: