In that season, heard Herod the tetrarch, the fame of Jesus:
and he said unto his servants—This, is John the Immerser,—he hath arisen from the dead, for this cause, are the powers working mightily within him.
For, Herod, seizing John, had bound him, and, in prison, put him away,—because of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother;
for John had been saying to him, It is not allowed thee, to have her.
And desiring, to kill, him, he feared the multitude, because, as a prophet, they held him.
But, a birthday feast of Herod taking place, the daughter of Herodias danced in the midst, and pleased Herod;
wherefore, with an oath, he promised to give her, whatsoever she should ask for herself;
and, she, being led on by her mother,—Give me (saith she) here, upon a charger, the head of John the Immerser.
And the king, though grieved, yet, because of the oaths and the guests, ordered it to be given;
and sent and beheaded John in the prison.
And his head was brought upon a charger, and given unto the maiden, and she brought it to her mother.
And his disciples, going near, bare away the corpse, and buried him, and came and brought tidings unto Jesus.
And Jesus, hearing it, retired from thence in a boat, into a desert place, apart,—and the multitudes, hearing of it, followed him on foot from the cities.
And, coming forth, he saw a great multitude,—and was moved with compassion over them, and cured their sick.
And, evening, arriving, the disciples came unto him, saying—The place is, a desert, and, the hour, hath already passed,—dismiss the multitudes, that they may go away into the villages, and buy themselves food.
But, Jesus, said unto them, No need, have they to go away,—give, ye, them to eat.
But, they, say unto him—We have nothing here, save five loaves and two fishes.
But, he, said—Bring, them, to me, here.
And, giving orders that the multitudes should recline upon the grass,—taking the five loaves and the two fishes,—looking up into the heaven, he blessed; and, breaking, gave, the disciples, the loaves, and the disciples unto the multitude.
And they did all eat, and were filled,—and they took up the remainder of the broken pieces, twelve baskets, full.
And, they who did eat, were about five thousand, men, besides women and children.
And [straightway] constrained he the disciples to enter into a boat, and be going before him unto the other side, while he dismissed the multitudes.
And, dismissing the multitudes, he went up into the mountain, apart, to pray,—and when, evening, came, alone, was he, there.
Now, the boat, still many furlongs from the land, was holding off, being distressed by the waves,—for, the wind, was, contrary.
And, in the fourth watch of the night, he came unto them, walking upon the sea.
And, the disciples, seeing him, upon the lake walking, were troubled,—saying—It is, a ghost; and, by reason of their fear, they cried out.
And, straightway, Jesus spake unto them, saying—Take courage! it is, I,—be not afraid.
And, making answer, Peter said unto him,—Lord! if it is, thou, bid me come unto thee, upon the waters.
And, he, said—Come! And, descending from the boat, Peter walked upon the waters, and came unto Jesus.
But, seeing the wind, he was affrighted, and, beginning to sink, cried out, saying—Lord! save me!
And, straightway, Jesus, stretching forth his hand, laid hold upon him and saith unto him—O little-of-faith! why didst thou doubt?
And, when they came up into the boat, the wind abated.
And, they in the boat, bowed down to him, saying—Truly, God’s Son, thou art!
And, going across, they came up the land, into Gennesaret.
And, recognizing him, the men of that place, sent out into all that region, and they brought unto him all who were sick;
and were beseeching [him], that they might, only, touch the border of his mantle, and, as many as touched, were made quite well.