AND he entered again into the synagogue; and a man was there who had a withered hand.
And they watched him if he would cure him on the sabbath; that they might accuse him.
And he saith to the man who had the withered hand, Rise up in the midst.
And he saith to them, Is it lawful on the sabbath day to do good, or to do evil, to preserve life, or to kill? but they were silent.
Then looking round about on them with indignation, exceedingly grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith to the man, Stretch out thine hand; and he stretched it out: and his hand was restored sound as the other.
And the Pharisees instantly going out, held a council with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.
And Jesus retired with his disciples to the sea side; and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea,
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and from the farther side of Jordan; and they around Tyre and Sidon, a vast multitude, when they heard what wonders he did, came unto him.
And he spoke to his disciples that a little boat should be ready for him, because of the crowd, lest they should press upon him:
for he healed many; insomuch, that they thronged in upon him, that they might touch him, as many as had afflictive diseases.
And the unclean spirits, when they beheld him, fell down before him, and cried out saying, Thou art the Son of God.
And he repeatedly charged them, that they should not make him known.
And he went up into a mountain, and called to him those whom he chose; and they came to him.
And he appointed twelve to be with him, and to send them out to preach:
and to have authority to cure diseases, and to cast out devils:
and Simon he surnamed Peter;
and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and surnamed them Boanerges, that is, sons of thunder:
and Andrew and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him: and they came into an house.
And the multitude came together again, so that they were not able even to eat bread.
And when his relations heard it, they went out to restrain him, for they said, He is transported beyond all bounds.
And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem, said, He hath Beelzebub, and by this prince of the devils doth he cast out devils.
So calling them to him, he spake to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
Even if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand:
and if a family be divided against itself, that family cannot be established.
So if Satan rise up against himself, and is divided, he cannot subsist, but cometh to an end.
No man entering into his house, can plunder a strong man’s goods, unless he first bind the strong man, then indeed he spoileth his house.
Verily I say unto you, That all sins shall be forgiven to the sons of men, and the blasphemies, whatsoever they may blaspheme:
but whosoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost, hath no forgiveness to eternity, but is adjudged to everlasting damnation.
Because they said, he hath an unclean spirit.
Then came his brethren and his mother, and standing without sent unto him, calling aloud for him.
And the multitude sat around him, and they said to him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without are asking for thee.
And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brethren?
And looking about on those who were sitting in a circle round him, he saith, Behold my mother and my brethren!
For whosoever shall do the will of God, that person is my brother, and my sister, and mother.