Lo, my eye has seen all this. My ear has heard and understood it.
What ye know, I also know; I am not inferior to you.
Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God.
But ye are forgers of lies. Ye are all physicians of no value.
O that ye would altogether be silent! And it would be your wisdom.
Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.
Will ye speak unrighteously for God, and talk deceitfully for him?
Will ye show partiality to him? Will ye contend for God?
Is it good that he should search you out? Or as deceiving a man, will ye deceive him?
He will surely reprove you if ye secretly show partiality.
Shall not his majesty make you afraid, and his dread fall upon you?
Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes. Your defenses are defenses of clay.
Be quiet. Let me alone that I may speak, and let come on me what will.
Why should I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in my hand?
Behold, he will kill me; I have no hope. Nevertheless I will maintain my ways before him.
This also shall be my salvation, that a profane man shall not come before him.
Hear diligently my speech, and let my declaration be in your ears.
Behold now, I have set my case in order. I know that I am righteous.
Who is he who will contend with me? For then I would keep silent and give up the spirit.
Only do not do two things to me, then I will not hide myself from thy face:
Withdraw thy hand far from me, and do not let thy dread make me afraid.
Then call thou, and I will answer, or let me speak, and answer thou me.
How many are my iniquities and sins? Make me to know my transgression and my sin.
Why do thou hide thy face, and reckon me for thine enemy?
Will thou harass a driven leaf? And will thou pursue the dry stubble?
For thou write bitter things against me, and make me to inherit the iniquities of my youth.
Thou also put my feet in the stocks, and mark all my paths. Thou set a bound to the soles of my feet.
Though I am like a rotten thing that decays, like a garment that is moth-eaten.