And to the sons of Issachar were Tola, and Puah, and Jashub, and Shimron, four.
And the sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers' house, these to Tola, great men of might to their generations. Their number in the days of David was twenty two thousand. six hundred,
And the sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah, the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah; all five of them chiefs.
And with them, by their generations, according to their fathers' house, were bands of soldiers for war, thirty six thousand; for they multiplied wives and sons.
And their brothers among all the families of Issachar were mighty men of war, being in all, by their genealogies, eighty seven thousand.
Of Benjamin: Bela and Becher, and Jediael, three.
And the sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of their fathers' house, mighty warriors; and their genealogy, twenty two thousand, and thirty four.
And the sons of Becher: Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and Alameth. All these are the sons of Becher.
And their genealogy, by their generations, heads of their fathers' house, mighty warriors, twenty thousand and two hundred.
And the sons of Jediael: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and Ahishahar;
all these are sons of Jediael, even heads of their fathers, mighty warriors, seventeen thousand and two hundred going out to war for battle.
And Shuppim and Huppim, the sons of Ir; Hushim the son of Aner.
The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
The sons of Manasseh: Ashriel, the child born to his Syrian concubine with Machir the father of Gilead.
And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim; and the name of his sister was Maachah; and the name of the second was Zelophehad. And Zelophehad had daughters.
And Maachah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh. And the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
And the sons of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
And his sister Hammoleketh bore Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.
And the sons of Shemida: Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered, his son, and Tahath, his son, and Eladah, his son; and Tahath, his son;
and Zabad, his son; and Shuthelah, his son; and Ezer, and Elead, and the men of Gath, natives in the land, killed them, because they came down to take away their cattle.
And their father Ephraim mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
And he went in to his wife. And she conceived and bore a son. And he called his name Beriah, because his house was in evil.
And his daughter was Sherah; and she built Beth-horon the lower and the upper, and Uzzensherah.
And Rephah was his son; also Resheph, and Telah, his son; and Tahan, his son;
Laadan, his son; Ammihud, his son; Elishama, his son;
Non, his son; Jehoshua, his son.
And their possessions and dwelling places: Bethel and its towns; and eastward to Naaran; and westward to Gezer and its towns; and Shechem and its towns; to Gaza and its towns.
And by the borders of the sons of Manasseh: Beth-shean and its towns; Taanach and its towns; Megiddo and its towns; Dor and its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel.
The sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.
And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel; he is the father of Birzavith.
And Heber fathered Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
And the sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these are the sons of Japhlet.
And the sons of Shamer: Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
And the sons of his brother Helem: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
The sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
And the sons of Jether: Jephunneh and Pispah, and Ara.
And the sons of Ulla: Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia.
All these were the sons of Asher, heads of their fathers' house, choice, mighty warriors, heads of the rulers. And their enrollment in the warfare in the battle, their number was twenty six thousand men.