And, all Israel, registered themselves, and lo! they are written, in the Book of the Kings of Israel, and, Judah, was carried away captive to Babylon, for their faithlessness.
Now, the first inhabitants, who were in their possessions, in their cities, were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the Nethinim.
And, in Jerusalem, there dwelt, of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin,—and of the sons of Ephraim, and Manasseh:
Uthai son of Ammihud, son of Omri, son of Imri, son of Bani, of the sons of Perez, son of Judah.
And, of the Shilonites, Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.
And, of the sons of Zerah, Jeuel,—and their brethren, six hundred and ninety.
And, of the sons of Benjamin, Sallu, son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, son of Hassenuah;
and Ibneiah, son of Jeroham, and Elah, son of Uzzi, son of Michri,—and Meshullam, son of Shephatiah, son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah;
and their brethren, by their generations, nine hundred and fifty-six,—all these men, were ancestral chiefs, to their ancestral house.
And, of the priests, Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin,—
and Azariah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, chief ruler of the house of God;
and Adaiah, son of Jeroham, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah,—and Maasai son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer;
and their brethren, chief men of their ancestral house, a thousand and seven hundred and sixty,—able men, for the business of the service of the house of God.
And, of the Levites, Shemaiah, son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
and Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal,—and Mattaniah, son of Mica, son of Zichri, son of Asaph;
and Obadiah, son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun,—and Berechiah son of Asa, son of Elkanah, who dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.
And, the keepers of the gates, were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman,—and their brethren—Shallum the chief;
and, hitherto, they were in the gate of the king, eastward,—the same, were the keepers of the gate, for the camps of the sons of Levi.
And, Shallum, son of Kore, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah and his brethren of his ancestral house—the Korahites, were over the business of the service, watchers at the vestibule of the tent,—and, their fathers, had been over the camp of Yahweh, watchers at the entrance.
And, Phinehas son of Eleazar, was, chief ruler, over them aforetime, Yahweh, being with him.
Zechariah son of Meshelemiah, was door-keeper at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
All those who were chosen for door-keepers in the vestibule, were two hundred and twelve,—the same, in their villages, had registered themselves, the same, did David and Samuel the seer establish in their trust.
So, they and their sons, were over the gates of the house of Yahweh, of the house of the tent, by watches.
Towards the four winds, were the keepers of the gates,—eastward, westward, northward, and southward.
And, their brethren in their villages, had to come in, every seven days, from time to time, along with these.
For, in trust, were four mighty men of the keepers of the gates, the same, were Levites,—and they were over the chambers, and over the treasuries of the house of God.
And, round about the house of God, used they to lodge,—for, upon them, was the charge, and they were over the setting open, morning by morning.
And, some from among them, were over the utensils of the service,—for, by number, used they to bring them in, and, by number, used they to take them forth.
And, some from among them, were appointed over the utensils, yea over all the vessels of the holy place,—and over the fine meal, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.
And, some from among the sons of the priests, were compounders of perfumes, with the spices.
And, Mattithiah, from among the Levites,—the same, was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite—was in trust over the making of the flat cakes.
And, some from among the Kohathites, of their brethren, were over the Bread that was set in Array,—to place it sabbath by sabbath.
These, also were the singers, ancestral chiefs of the Levites, in the chambers, free,—for, by day and by night, was there [a charge] upon them, in the business.
These, were the ancestral chiefs, of the Levites, by their generations, chief men,—these, dwelt in Jerusalem.
And, in Gibeon, dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jeiel,—the name of whose wife, was Maacah:
and, his firstborn son, Abdon,—and Zur, and Kish, and Baal and Ner, and Nadab;
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloh.
And, Mikloth, begat Shimeam—and, they also, over against their brethren, did dwell in Jerusalem, along with their brethren.
And, Ner, begat Kith, and, Kish, begat Saul,—and, Saul, begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal;
and, the son of Jonathan, was Merib-baal,—and, Merib-baal, begat Micah;
and, the sons of Micah, were Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea [and Ahaz] ;
and, Ahaz, begat Jarah, and, Jarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri,—and Zimri, begat Moza;
and, Moza, begat Binea,—and Raphaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son;
and, Azel, had six sons, and these are their names—Azrikam, [his firstborn], and Ishmael, and Sheariah and Obadiah, and Hanan, [and Asah] . These, were the sons of Azel.