The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought.
Judah mourns, and the gates thereof languish. They sit in black upon the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem has gone up.
And their ranking men send their little ones to the waters. They come to the cisterns, and find no water. They return with their vessels empty. They are put to shame and confounded, and cover their heads,
because of the ground which is cracked. Because no rain has been in the land, the plowmen are put to shame; they cover their heads.
Yea, the hind also in the field calves, and forsakes it because there is no grass.
And the wild donkeys stand on the bare heights. They pant for air like jackals. Their eyes fail because there is no herbage.
Though our iniquities testify against us, work thou for thy name's sake, O Jehovah. For our backslidings are many. We have sinned against thee.
O thou hope of Israel, the Savior of it in the time of trouble, why should thou be as a sojourner in the land, and as a wayfaring man who turns aside to tarry for a night?
Why should thou be as a man frightened, as a mighty man who cannot save? Yet thou, O Jehovah, are in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name. Do not leave us.
Thus says Jehovah to this people: Even so they have loved to wander. They have not restrained their feet. Therefore Jehovah does not accept them. Now he will remember their iniquity, and visit their sins.
And Jehovah said to me, Pray not for this people for good.
When they fast, I will not hear their cry. And when they offer burnt offering and meal offering, I will not accept them. But I will consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.
Then I said, Ah, lord Jehovah! Behold, the prophets say to them, Ye shall not see the sword, nor shall ye have famine, but I will give you assured peace in this place.
Then Jehovah said to me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name. I did not send them, nor have I commanded them, nor did I speak to them. They prophesy to you a lying vision, and divination, and a thing of naught, and the deceit of their own heart.
Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name, and I did not send them, yet they say, Sword and famine shall not be in this land: By sword and famine those prophets shall be consumed.
And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword, and they shall have none to bury them-them, their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters. For I will pour their wickedness upon them.
And thou shall say this word to them: Let my eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease. For the virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous wound.
If I go forth into the field, then, behold, the slain with the sword! And if I enter into the city, then, behold, those who are sick with famine! For both the prophet and the priest go about in the land, and have no knowledge.
Have thou utterly rejected Judah? Has thy soul loathed Zion? Why have thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no good came, and for a time of healing, and, behold, dismay!
We acknowledge, O Jehovah, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our fathers, for we have sinned against thee.
Do not abhor us. For thy name's sake, do not disgrace the throne of thy glory. Remember, do not break thy covenant with us.
Are there any among the vanities of the nations that can cause rain? Or can the heavens give showers? Are not thou he, O Jehovah our God? Therefore we will wait for thee, for thou have made all these things.