AND he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard, and set a hedge around it, and digged a wine-press, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went abroad.
And in the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that he might receive from the husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard.
But they took him, and beat him, and sent him away empty.
And again he sent unto them another servant; and they cut the account short with him, by stoning him, and sent him away shamefully treated.
And again he sent another; and him, they slew; and many others, some of whom they beat, and others they killed.
Now he had yet one son, his beloved, and he sent him unto them last, saying, They will reverence my son.
But these husbandmen said to each other, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be our own.
And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
What then will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy these husbandmen, and give his vineyard to others.
Have ye never read this scripture? “The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner:
this was the Lord’s doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes.”
And they sought to seize him, and were afraid of the people: for they knew that he had spoken this parable against them: and leaving him, they departed.
And they sent unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, that they might entrap him in discourse.
And they come and say to him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest not for any man: for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar, or not?
shall we pay, or shall we not pay it? but he, perceiving their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a denarius, that I may see it.
And they brought it. And he said unto them, Whose figure and inscription is this? they say unto him, Caesar’s.
And Jesus addressing them, said, Render the things which are Caesar’s, to Caesar; and what belongs to God, to God. And they marvelled at him.
And the Sadducees come to him, who say that there is no resurrection; and they put a question to him, saying,
Master, Moses left it in writing for us, that if a man’s brother die, and leave a wife, and leave no children; that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed for his brother.
Now there were seven brothers; and the first took a wife, and dying left no issue:
and the second took her, and died, and neither did he leave issue; and the third in like manner.
And the seven had her, and left no issue. Last of all died also the wife.
In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wife of them shall she be? for the seven had the very same wife.
And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, from not knowing the scriptures, and the power of God?
For when they rise from the dead, they will neither marry, nor be given in marriage; but they are as the angels which are in heaven.
But concerning the dead, that they do rise; have ye not read in the book of Moses, how God spake to him at the bush, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?
He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. Ye are therefore vastly erroneous.
And one of the scribes coming, and hearing them questioning him, perceiving that he had answered them admirably, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all?
Then Jesus replied to him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear O Israel; the Lord thy God is one Lord:
and thou shalt love the Lord thy God, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment.
And the second, like it, is this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: there is no greater commandment than these.
And the scribe said unto him, Admirably, Master! thou hast spoken the very truth: for there is one God; and there is no other besides him:
and to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength; and to love his neighbour as himself, is better than all burnt offerings, and sacrifices.
And Jesus perceiving that he had answered as a man of intelligence, said to him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man thenceforth presumed to question him.
And Jesus addressing them said, as he taught in the temple, How say the scribes that the Messiah is the Son of David?
for David himself saith by the Spirit, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thy enemies the foot-stool for thy feet.
David himself therefore calleth him Lord; and whence then is he his son? And a vast multitude heard him with delight.
And he spake to them in the course of his teaching, Beware of the scribes, who love to go about in trailing robes, and like salutations in the places of concourse,
and the principal seats in the synagogues, and the first couch at suppers:
who devour widows’ houses, and in pretence make long prayers: such shall receive greater damnation.
And as Jesus was sitting opposite the treasury, he saw a multitude casting money into the treasury: and many who were rich cast in many pieces.
And one poor widow coming, cast in two mites, which is a farthing.
And having called his disciples, he said unto them, I tell you truly, that this poor widow hath cast in more than all who have cast into the treasury:
for all they have cast in of their superfluities; but she from her indigence hath cast in all that she had, even her whole substance.