Become ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ.
Now I praise you, brothers, that ye remember me in all things and keep the traditions, just as I delivered them to you.
But I want you to know that the head of every man is the Christ, and the head of a woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God.
Every man praying or prophesying having something upon his head dishonors his head.
But every woman praying or prophesying with her head uncovered dishonors her head, for it is one and the same thing as the woman who has been shaven.
For if a woman is not covered, let her also shear herself. But if it is an ugly thing for a woman to shear herself or be shaven, she should be covered.
For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, being an image and glory of God, but woman is a glory of man.
For man is not from woman, but woman from man.
For also man was not created for the woman, but woman for the man.
Because of this the woman ought to have authority over her head, because of the agents.
Nevertheless, neither is man independent of woman, nor woman independent of man, in the Lord.
For just as the woman is from the man, so also the man is through the woman. But all things are from God.
Judge ye among yourselves, is it proper for a woman to pray to God uncovered?
Or does not nature itself teach you that if a man actually wears long hair it is a disgrace to him?
But if a woman wears long hair, it is a glory to her, because her hair has been given for a cloak.
But if any man appears to be a lover of strife, we have no such custom, nor the congregations of God.
Now in this that is commanded, I do not praise you, because ye do not assemble for the better but for the worse.
For indeed first, when ye come together in a congregation, I hear divisions are present among you, and I partly believe it.
For there must also be factions among you, so that the genuine may become apparent among you.
When therefore ye come together in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper.
For each man proceeds to eat his own meal, and one is hungry and another is drunken.
For have ye no houses to eat and to drink in? Or do ye disparage the church of God, and humiliate those not having? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you.
For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed took bread,
and having expressed thanks, he broke in pieces, and said, Take ye, eat, this is my body broken for you. This do ye for my memorial.
Likewise also the cup after the supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do, as often as ye drink it, for my memorial.
For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
Therefore whoever may eat this bread or drink the cup of the Lord unworthily of the Lord, will be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord.
But let a man examine himself, and let him so eat of the bread, and drink of the cup.
For he who eats and drinks unworthily, eats and drinks condemnation to himself, not discerning the body of the Lord.
Because of this many are weak and sickly among you, and a considerable sleep.
But if we were discerning ourselves we would not be judged.
But when we are judged by the Lord, we are chastened so that we may not be condemned with the world.
Therefore, my brothers, when ye come together to eat, await each other.
And if any man is hungry, let him eat at home so that ye may not come together for condemnation. And the rest I will set in order as soon as I come.