Unto the end. To the sons of Korah, toward understanding.
We have heard, O God, with our own ears. Our fathers have announced to us the work that you wrought in their days and in the days of antiquity.
Your hand dispersed the Gentiles, and you transplanted them. You afflicted a people, and you expelled them.
For they did not take possession of the land by their sword, and their own arm did not save them. But your right hand and your arm, and the light of your countenance did so, because you were pleased with them.
You yourself are my king and my God, who commands the salvation of Jacob.
With you, we will brandish a horn before our enemies; and in your name, we will spurn those rising up against us.
For I will not hope in my bow, and my sword will not save me.
For you have saved us from those who afflict us, and you have bewildered those who hate us.
In God, we will give praise all day long; and in your name, we will confess forever.
But now, you have rejected and bewildered us, and you will not go forth with our armies, O God.
You have turned our back to our enemies, and those who hated us have plundered for themselves.
You have given us over like sheep for food. You have scattered us among the Gentiles.
You have sold your people without a price, and no great number was exchanged for them.
You have set us as a disgrace to our neighbors, a scoff and a derision to those who are around us.
You have set us as a parable among the Gentiles, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
All day long my shame is before me, and the confusion of my face has covered me,
before the voice of the reproacher and the commentator, before the face of the adversary and the pursuer.
All these things have come upon us, yet we have not forgotten you, and we have not acted unjustly in your covenant.
And our heart has not turned back. And you have not diverted our steps from your way.
For you humbled us in a place of affliction, and the shadow of death has covered us.
If we have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have extended our hands to a foreign god,
will not God find this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart. For, because of you, we are being killed all day long. We are considered as sheep for the slaughter.
Rise up. Why do you fall asleep, O Lord? Rise up, and do not reject us in the end.
Why do you turn your face away, and why do you forget our needfulness and our tribulation?
For our soul has been humbled into the dust. Our belly has been bound to the earth.
Rise up, O Lord. Help us and redeem us, because of your name.