THOU therefore, my son, be mighty in the grace which is in Jesus Christ.
And the things which thou hast heard of me before many witnesses, these commit to faithful men, who shall be qualified to teach others also.
Thou therefore endure hardships, as a brave soldier of Jesus Christ.
No man who enters the army involves himself with secular affairs; that he may please the person who hath enlisted him.
And if a man contend in the public games, he is not crowned victor, unless he contend according to the laws.
The husbandman who toils is the first who ought to partake of the fruits.
Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding in all things.
Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead, according to my gospel:
for which I suffer affliction, even unto chains as a malefactor; but the word of God is not bound.
Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Jesus Christ with eternal glory.
It is a faithful saying: for if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him:
if we suffer with him, we shall also reign with him: if we renounce him, he also will renounce us:
if we are unbelieving, he abideth faithful; he cannot contradict himself.
Put them in mind of these things, adjuring them before the Lord not to quarrel about words of no use, but tending to the perversion of the audience.
Be diligent to present thyself before God approved, a workman that need not blush, rightly dividing the word of truth.
But profane vain bablings avoid: for they will proceed to greater lengths of impiety.
And their discourse will eat like as a gangrene; of whom are Hymeneus and Philetus;
who with respect to the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection hath been already; and pervert the faith of some.
Nevertheless the stable foundation of God standeth firm, having this seal, the Lord knoweth those who belong to him. And, let every man who mentions the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness.
But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and pottery; and some for an honourable use, and others for baser service.
If therefore a man preserve himself pure from these things, he shall be a vessel for honour, sanctified and highly useful to the master, ready for every good work.
But flee youthful passions, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, with those who call upon the Lord out of a pure heart.
But foolish and uninstructive disputes avoid, knowing that they produce quarrels.
And a servant of the Lord ought not to quarrel; but to be gentle to all men, apt to teach, forbearing,
with meekness correcting those who are opposers, if at last God may give unto them repentance so as to submit to the conviction of the truth;
and that they may escape out of the snare of the devil, who have been captured by him for his will.