Sons, hear the instruction of a father, and listen so as to know understanding.
For I give you good teaching, do not forsake my law.
For I was my father's son, tender and an only one in the sight of my mother.
And he taught me and said to me, Let your heart cling to my words; keep my commands and live.
Get wisdom, get understanding; do not forsake and do not turn away from the words of my mouth.
Do not forsake her, and she will preserve you; love her, and she will keep you.
Wisdom is the main thing; get wisdom, and with all your getting, get understanding.
Exalt her, and she will lift you up; she shall bring you to honor when you embrace her.
She shall give a wreath of grace to your head; she shall shield you with a crown of glory.
Oh my son, hear and receive my sayings, and the years of your life shall be many.
I have taught you in the way of wisdom; I have led you in the right tracks;
when you go, your tracks shall not be narrowed, and when you run, you shall not stumble.
Take fast hold of instruction, do not let her go; keep her, for she is your life.
Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not go in the way of evildoers.
Avoid it, do not pass by it; turn from it and pass on.
For they do not sleep if they have done no evil, and their sleep is taken away unless they cause some to fall.
For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.
But the path of the just is as a bright light going on and shining till the day is established.
The way of the wicked is as darkness; they do not know at what they stumble.
My son, listen to my words; bow your ear to what I say;
let them not depart from your eyes; keep them in the center of your heart;
for they are life to those who find them, and healing to all his flesh.
Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life.
Turn away from you the crooked mouth, and put perverse lips far from you.
Let your eyes look straight ahead, and let your eyelids look straight before you.
Study the track of your feet, then all your ways will be established.
Do not turn to the right hand or to the left; turn your foot aside from evil.