And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, When a man shall make a special vow, the persons shall be for the LORD by your evaluation.
And your judgment shall be of the male from twenty years old even to sixty years old, even your judgment shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
And if it is a female, then your judgment shall be thirty shekels.
And if from five years old to twenty years old, then your judgment shall be of the male twenty shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
And if from a month old to five years old, then your judgment shall be of the male five shekels of silver, and for the female your judgment shall be three shekels of silver.
And if from sixty years old and above, if it is a male then your judgment shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
But if he is poorer than your judgment, then he shall present himself before the priest, and the priest shall value him. The priest shall value him according to the ability of him who vowed.
And if it is an animal of which they bring an offering to the LORD, all that one gives of such to the LORD shall be holy.
He shall not alter it nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good. And if he shall at all change animal for animal, then it and the exchange of it shall be holy.
And if it is any unclean animal, of which they do not offer a sacrifice to the LORD, then he shall present the animal before the priest.
And the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad. As you the priest value it, so shall it be.
But if he will at all redeem it, then he shall add a fifth part of it to what you judged.
And when a man shall sanctify his house to be holy to the LORD, then the priest shall judge it, whether it is good or bad. As the priest shall judge it, so shall it stand.
And if he who sanctified it desires to redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the silver of your judgment, and it shall be his.
And if a man shall sanctify to the LORD some part of a field that he owns, then your judgment shall be according to its seed; a homer of barley seed at fifty shekels of silver.
If he sanctifies his field from the year of jubilee, according to your judgment it shall stand.
But if he sanctifies his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the silver according to the years that remain, even until the year of jubilee, and it shall be taken from your estimation.
And if he who sanctified the field desires in any way to redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your estimation to it, and it shall be made sure to him.
And if he will not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more.
But the field, when it goes out in the jubilee, shall be holy to the LORD, as a field devoted. The possession of it shall be the priest's.
And if a man sanctifies to the LORD a field which he has bought, which is not of the fields he owns,
then the priest shall count to him the worth of your estimation, until the year of jubilee. And he shall give your estimation in that day, a holy thing to the LORD.
In the year of the jubilee the field shall return to him from whom it was bought, to him who owns it in the land.
And all your judgments shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary, twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.
However, the first-born of an animal, which should be the LORD's first-born, no man shall sanctify it, whether an ox, or sheep, it is the LORD's.
And if it is of an unclean animal, then he shall redeem it according to your estimation, and shall add a fifth part of it to it. Or if it is not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your estimation.
However, no devoted thing that a man shall devote to the LORD of all that he has, either of man or animal, or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed. Every devoted thing is most holy to the LORD.
Nothing devoted, which shall be devoted of men, shall be redeemed, but shall surely be put to death.
And all the tithe of the land, of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is the LORD's. It is holy to the LORD.
And if a man will at all redeem anything of his tithes, he shall add to it the fifth part of it.
And all the tithe of the herd, or of the flock, all that passes under the rod, a tenth shall be holy to the LORD
He shall not search whether it is good or bad, neither shall he change it. And if he changes it at all, then both it and the change of it shall be holy. It shall not be redeemed.
These are the commandments which the LORD commanded Moses for the sons of Israel in Mount Sinai.