And the second lot came forth to Simeon, for the tribe of the sons of Simeon according to their families. And their inheritance was inside the inheritance of the sons of Judah.
And they had for their inheritance, Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah,
and Hazar-shual, and Balah, and Azem,
and Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah,
and Ziklag, and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah,
and Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities and their villages;
Ain, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities and their villages;
and all the villages that were all around these cities to Baalath-beer, Ramah of the south. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Simeon according to their families.
The inheritance of the sons of Simeon was out of the portion of the sons of Judah. For the part of the sons of Judah was too much for them. Therefore, the sons of Simeon had their inheritance within their inheritance.
And the third lot came up for the sons of Zebulun according to their families. And the border of their inheritance was to Sarid.
And their border went up toward the sea, and Maralah, and reached to Dabbasheth, and reached to the torrent in front of Jokneam,
and turned east from Sarid toward the rising of the sun, to the border of The Flames of Tabor, and goes out to Daberath, and goes up the Japhia.
And from there it passes on along on the east to Gittah-hepher, to Ittah-kazin, and goes out to Remmon-methoar to Neah.
And the border goes around it on the north side to Hannathon, and its outer limits are in the valley of Jiphthah-el,
and Kattath, and Nahallal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Bethlehem; twelve cities and their villages.
This is the inheritance of the sons of Zebulun according to their families, these cities and their villages.
The fourth lot came out to Issachar, for the sons of Issachar according to their families.
And their border was toward Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,
and Hapharaim, and Shihon, and Anaharath,
and Rabbith, and Kishion, and Abez,
and Remeth, and En-gannim, and En-haddah, and Beth-pazzez.
And the border reaches to Tabor, and Shahazimah, and Beth-shemesh. And the outer limits of their border were at Jordan; sixteen cities and their villages.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages.
And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the sons of Asher, according to their families.
And their border was Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,
and Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal, and reaches to Carmel westward, and to Shihor-libnath.
And it turns toward the rising of the sun to Beth-dagon, and it reaches to Zebulun, and to the valley of Jiphthahel toward the north side of Beth-emek, and Neiel, and goes out to Cabul on the left hand,
and Hebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah to great Sidon.
And the border turns to Ramah, and to the strong city Tyre. And the border turns to Hosah, and the outer limits of it are at the sea from the line to Achzib,
and Ummah, and Aphek, and Rehob; twenty two cities and their villages.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Asher according to their families, these cities and their villages.
The sixth lot came out to the sons of Naphtali, for the sons of Naphtali by their families.
And their border was from Heleph, from Allon to Zaanannim, and Adami, Nekeb, and Jabneel, to Lakum. And its boundaries were at Jordan.
And the border turns west toward Aznoth-tabor, and goes out from there to Hukkok, and reached to Zebulun on the south side, and reaches to Asher on the west side, and to Judah on Jordan toward the rising of the sun;
and the fortified cities are Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath, and Chinnereth,
and Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor,
and Kedesh, and Edrei, and En-hazor,
and Iron, and Migdalel, Horem, and Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh; nineteen cities and their villages.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali by their families, the cities and their villages.
The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the sons of Dan by their families.
And the border of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and I-rshemesh,
and Shaalabbin, and Ajalon, and Jethlah,
and Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron,
and Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Baalath,
and Jehud, and Beneberak, and Gath-rimmon,
and Mejarkon, and Rakkon, with the border before Japho.
And the border of the sons of Dan came out too little for them. And the sons of Dan went up to fight against Leshem, and took it, and struck it with the mouth of the sword, and possessed it, and lived in it. And they called Leshem Dan, after the name of their father Dan.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Dan by their families, these cities and their villages.
When they had made an end of dividing the land for inheritance by their borders, the sons of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun among them.
According to the mouth of Jehovah, they gave him the city which he asked, Timnath-serah in Mount Ephraim. And he built the city and lived in it.
These are the inheritances which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel divided for an inheritance by lot in Shiloh before Jehovah, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. So they finished dividing the country.