Watching for wealth consumes the flesh, and thinking about it takes away sleep.
Anticipation in thought distracts the mind, and a grievous infirmity makes the soul sober.
The rich man has labored in gathering wealth, and in his rest, he will be filled with his goods.
The poor man has labored in his lowly way, and in the end, he may still be in need.
Whoever loves gold will not be justified. And whoever pursues consumption will be consumed by it.
Many have been caused to fall because of gold, and it became their ruin by its beauty.
Gold is a stumbling block to those who sacrifice for it. Woe to those who pursue it eagerly, for all the imprudent will perish by it.
Blessed is the rich man who is found to be without blemish. And blessed is he who has not gone after gold, nor placed his hope in money or treasures.
Who is he? For we should praise him. For he has done wonderful things in his life.
He has been tested by it, and has become perfect; he will have eternal glory. He was able to transgress, but he has not transgressed. He was able to do evil, but he has not done evil.
Therefore, his good things are established in the Lord, and the entire Church of the saints will proclaim his almsgiving.
Are you seated at a great table? You should not open your mouth over it first.
You should not speak in this way: “There are many things that are upon it.”
Remember that a wicked eye is evil.
What has been made more wicked than the eye? Therefore, when it sees, it will shed tears over the entire face.
You should not extend your hand first, for then, having been corrupted by envy, you would be ashamed.
You should not press forward at a feast.
Understand which things are your neighbor’s and not your own.
Make use of the things that are set before you, just as a frugal man would. Otherwise, if you eat much, you will be hated.
Cease eating first, for the sake of discipline. And do not eat to excess, lest you offend.
And if you sit in the midst of many, you should not extend your hand before they do, and you should not be the first to ask for a drink.
How sufficient is a little wine for a well-taught man! For in sleep, you will not labor because of it, and you will not feel pain.
Worry, and disease, and torment are with an intemperate man.
A healthy sleep is with a temperate man. He will sleep until morning, and his soul will be delighted with him.
And if you have been coaxed into eating too much, rise up, go outside, and vomit. And it will refresh you, and you will not bring sickness upon your body.
Listen to me, son, for you should not spurn me. And in the very end, you will discover my words.
In all your works, be prompt, and then no infirmity will befall you.
The lips of many will bless the splendid in bread. For the testimony of his truthfulness is faithful.
The city will murmur against the wicked in bread. For the testimony against his wickedness is true.
Do not choose to provoke those who love wine. For wine has destroyed many.
Fire tests the hardness of iron; similarly, drinking wine to inebriation will rebuke the hearts of the arrogant.
Drinking wine in sobriety gives a contented life to men. If you drink it in moderation, you will be sober.
What is life to him who is diminished by wine?
What can cheat him of his life? Death.
From the beginning, wine was created for cheerfulness, but not for inebriation.
Wine taken in moderation lifts up the mind and the heart.
Sober drinking is healthful to mind and body.
Wine taken in excess stirs up conflict and anger, and brings many to ruin.
Wine taken in excess is bitter to the soul.
The effects of inebriation are a stumbling block to the imprudent, diminishing strength and causing wounds.
You should not argue with your neighbor during a banquet of wine. And you should not spurn him in his cheerfulness.
You should not speak words of reproach to him. And you should not press him with repeated requests.