And Yahweh said to Noah, Enter thou and all thy house, into the ark,—for, thee, have I seen righteous before me, in this generation.
Of all the clean beasts, shalt thou take to thee by sevens, a male and his female,—and, of the beasts that are not clean, shall be two a male and his female.
Also of the bird of the heavens, by sevens, male and female,—to keep alive a seed on the face of all the earth.
For in seven days more, I, am sending rain on the earth, forty days and forty nights,—so will I wipe out all the living things which I have made, from off the face of the ground.
And Noah did,—according to all that Yahweh commanded him.
Now, Noah, was six hundred years old,—when, the flood, came, even waters on the earth.
So Noah entered, and his sons and his wife and his sons’ wives with him into the ark,—from before the waters of the flood,
Of the beasts that were clean, and of the beasts that were not clean,—and of the birds, and everything that creepeth on the ground,
two and two, went they in unto Noah, into the ark male and female,—as God commanded Noah.
And it came to pass, in the seven days,—that the waters of the flood, came on the earth.
In the six hundredth year, the year of the life of Noah. in the second month on the seventeenth day of the month on this day, were burst open all the fountains of the great roaring deep, and the windows of the heavens, were set open.
(And it came to pass that the heavy rain was on the earth,—forty days and forty nights.)
On this selfsame day, entered Noah, and Shem and Ham and Japheth. Noah’s sons,—and Noah’s wife, and his sons’ three wives with them into the ark:
they, and all the wild-beasts after their kind and all the tame-beasts after their kind, and all the creeping things that creep on the earth after their kind,—and all the birds after their kind, every bird of every wing.
So they entered in unto Noah, into the ark,—two and two of all flesh, wherein was the spirit of life.
And, they that entered, male and female of all flesh, entered, as God commanded him,—and Yahweh shut him in round about.
And it came to pass, that the flood was forty days on the earth,—and the waters increased and bare up the ark, and it was lifted high above the earth,
And the waters prevailed and increased greatly, on the earth,—and the ark went its way on the face of the waters.
Yea the waters, prevailed very greatly, on the earth,—so that all the high mountains became covered, that were under all the heavens:
fifteen cubits upwards, prevailed the waters, so that the mountains became covered.
And all flesh ceased to breathe that moved on the earth, of birds and of tame-beasts and of wild-beasts, and of all the swarming things that swarm on the earth,—and all mankind.
All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life of all that were on the dry ground died.
Thus was wiped out all that existed on the face of the ground, from man unto beast unto creeping thing, and unto the bird of the heavens, thus were they wiped out from the earth,—so that there was left—only Noah and they that were with him in the ark.
Thus prevailed the waters on the earth,—a hundred and fifty days.