And to the angel of the church in Sardis, write: These things says he that has the seven spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know your works, that you have a name, that you live, and are dead.
Be watchful, and strengthen the things that remain, which are about to die; for I have not found your works perfect before God.
Remember, therefore, how you have received and heard, and be watchful and repent. If, therefore, you do not watch, I will come upon you as a thief, and you shall not know at what hour I will come upon you.
Yet you have a few names in Sardis that have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
He that overcomes, shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot his name out of the book of life: and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia, write: These things says he that is holy, he that is true, he that has the key of David, he that opens and no man shuts, and shuts and no man opens;
I know your works: behold, I have set before you an open door that no one is able to shut, because you have a little strength, and have kept my word, and have not denied my name.
Behold, I will make those who are of the synagogue of Satan, who say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them come and worship before your feet, and know that I have loved you.
Because you have kept the word of my patience, I also will keep you from the hour of trial that is about to come on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth.
I come quickly: hold fast that which you have, that no one take your crown.
Him that overcomes, I will make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go out no more; and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and I will write upon him my new name.
He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And to the angel of the church in Laodicea, write: These things says the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God;
I know your works, that you are neither cold, nor hot: I wish that you were cold, or hot.
So, then, because you are luke-warm, and neither cold, nor hot, I will vomit you out of my mouth.
Because you say I am rich, and abound in wealth, and have need of nothing, and know not that you are miserable and pitiable and poor and blind and naked,
I counsel you to buy of me gold that has been tried in the fire, that you may be rich; and white raiment, that you may be clothed, and that the shame of your nakedness may not appear; and anoint your eyes with eye-salve, that you may see.
As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten; be zealous, therefore, and repent.
Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any one hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.
To him that overcomes, I will give to sit with me in my throne, even as I also have overcome, and have taken my seat with my father in his throne.
He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.