And it becoming early morning, all the chief priests and elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put Him to death.
And when they had bound Him, they led Him away and delivered Him to Pontius Pilate the governor.
Then he who had betrayed Him, seeing that He was condemned, sorrowing, Judas returned the thirty pieces of silver again to the chief priests and elders,
saying, I have sinned, betraying innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? You see to that.
And he threw the pieces of silver down in the temple and departed. And he went and hanged himself.
And the chief priests took the silver pieces, and said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, because it is the price of blood.
And they took counsel and bought the potter's field with them, to bury strangers in.
Therefore that field was called, The Field of Blood, to this day.
Then that which was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying, "And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of Him who had been priced, whom they of the children of Israel valued,
and gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord appointed me."
And Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor asked Him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, You say it.
And when He was accused by the chief priests and elders, He answered nothing.
Then Pilate said to Him, Do you not hear how many things they witness against you?
And He did not answer him a word, so that the governor greatly marveled.
Now at that feast the governor was accustomed to release to the people a prisoner, whomever they desired.
And they then had a notorious prisoner called Barabbas.
Therefore when they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you desire that I release to you? Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?
For he knew they had delivered Him because of envy.
But as he was sitting down on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that just man, for today because of Him I have suffered many things in a dream.
But the chief priests and elders persuaded the crowd that they should ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus.
The governor answered and said to them, Which of the two do you desire that I release to you? They said, Barabbas.
Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus, who is called Christ? They all said to him, Let Him be crucified.
And the governor said, Why? What evil has He done? But they cried out the more, saying, let Him be crucified!
But when Pilate saw that it gained nothing, but rather that a tumult was made, he took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. You see to it.
Then all the people answered and said, Let His blood be on us and on our children.
Then he released Barabbas to them. And when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered Him to be crucified.
Then taking Jesus into the praetorium, the soldiers of the governor gathered the cohort against Him.
And stripping Him, they put a scarlet robe around Him.
And plaiting a crown of thorns, they put it on His head, and a reed in His right hand. And they bowed the knee before Him and mocked Him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews!
And spitting at Him, they took the reed and struck at His head.
And after they had mocked Him, they took the robe off of Him and put His own clothing on Him and led Him away to crucify Him.
And going out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They forced this one to carry His cross.
And coming to a place called Golgotha, which is called, Place of a Skull,
they gave Him vinegar mixed with gall to drink. And when He had tasted, He would not drink.
And they crucified Him, dividing His garments, casting a lot; so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, "They parted My garments among them, and they cast a lot for My clothing."
And sitting down they guarded Him there.
And they put up over His head His accusation, written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then two thieves were crucified with Him, one off the right, one off the left.
And those who passed by blasphemed Him, shaking their heads,
and saying, You destroying the temple and building it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross.
And in the same way also the chief priests mocked, with the scribes and elders, saying,
He saved others, but he cannot save himself. If he is the King of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him.
He trusted in God, let Him deliver him now, if He will have him. (For He said, I am the Son of God.)
And also the thieves who were crucified with Him reviled Him, saying the same.
And from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? That is, My God, My God, why have You forsaken me?
Some of those who stood there, when they heard, said, This one calls for Elijah.
And immediately one of them ran and took a sponge and filled it with vinegar, and he put it on a reed and gave it to Him to drink.
The rest said, Let Him alone, let us see whether Elijah will come to save Him.
And crying again with a loud voice, Jesus released His spirit.
And, behold! The veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the earth quaked, and the rocks were sheared,
and the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep arose,
and coming out of the tomb after His resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many.
But the centurion and those guarding Jesus, seeing the earthquake, and the things that took place, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this One was Son of God.
And many of the women were there, watching from a distance, those who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to Him, watching from a distance;
among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's children.
When the evening had come, a rich man of Arimathea, named Joseph, came, who also himself was Jesus' disciple.
He went to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered.
When Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in clean linen,
and laid it in his new tomb, which he had cut out of the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb and departed.
And Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, were sitting there across from the tomb.
And on the next day, which was after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered to Pilate,
saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, while He was living, After three days I will rise again.
Then command that the tomb be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away and say to the people, He has risen from the dead. So the last error will be worse than the first.
Pilate said to them, You have a watch. Go and make it as secure as you can.
And going they made the tomb secure, sealing the stone along with the guard.