O Israel, do not rejoice for joy, like the peoples. For you have gone lusting away from your God. You have loved a reward on all threshing-floors of grain.
The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail in her.
They shall not live in the land of Jehovah. But Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean things in Assyria.
They shall not offer wine to Jehovah. They shall not be pleasing to Him. Their sacrifices shall be like the bread of sorrows to them; all who eat it shall be defiled, for their bread is for their person; it shall not come into the house of Jehovah.
What will you do in the day of meeting, and in the day of the feast of Jehovah?
For, lo, they have gone from destruction. Egypt shall gather them; Memphis shall bury them. Nettles shall possess the desirable things of their silver; thorns shall be in their tents.
The days of her visitation have come; the days of retribution have come. Israel shall know. The prophet is a fool, the spiritual man is insane, because of the greatness of your iniquity and your great hatred
Ephraim is a watchman with my God. The prophet is a snare of a fowler on all his ways; hatred is in the house of his God.
They have deeply corrupted, as in days of Gibeah. He will remember their iniquity; He will punish their sins.
I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness. I saw your fathers as the firstfruit in the fig tree at her first time. They came to Baal-peor and set themselves apart to a shameful thing. And they became hateful like that which they loved.
Ephraim is like a bird; their glory shall fly away, from birth, and from the womb, and from conception.
Though they nourish their sons, yet I will make them childless, without a man. Yea, woe also to them when I turn away from them!
As when I looked toward Tyre, Ephraim was planted in a pleasant place. But Ephraim shall bring forth his sons to the slayer.
O Jehovah, give them. What will you give them? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
All their wickedness is in Gilgal, for there I hated them. I will drive them out of My house for the wickedness of their doings, I will not love them again; all their rulers are revolters.
Ephraim is stricken; their root is dried up; they shall bear no fruit. Yea, though they bear, yet I will kill the beloved ones of their womb.
My God shall reject them because they did not listen to Him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations.