And upon his coming down from the mountain, many multitudes followed him.
And behold, a leper who came, worshiped him, saying, Lord, if thou will, thou can cleanse me.
And having reached out his hand, Jesus touched him, saying, I will, be thou cleansed. And straightaway his leprosy was cleansed.
And Jesus says to him, See thou speak to no man, but go, show thyself to the priest, and bring the gift that Moses commanded for a testimony to them.
And upon his entering into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, beseeching him,
and saying, Lord, my boy has been laid down in the house, paralyzed, extremely tormented.
And Jesus says to him, after coming I will heal him.
And having answered, the centurion said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou should come under my roof, but only speak the word, and my boy will be healed.
For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under myself. And I say to this man, Go, and he goes, and to another, Come, and he comes, and to my bondman, Do this, and he does it.
And when Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to those who followed, Truly I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith.
And I say to you, that many will come from east and west, and will sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of the heavens,
but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness. There will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
And Jesus said to the centurion, Go thou. And as thou have believed, be it done to thee. And his boy was healed in that hour.
And when Jesus came into Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law, having been laid down, and feverish.
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her. And she was raised up, and served him.
And having become evening, they brought to him many being demon possessed. And he cast out the spirits by word, and healed all those faring badly,
so that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which says, He himself took our infirmities, and bore our diseases.
Now when Jesus saw many multitudes around him, he commanded to depart to the other side.
And a certain scholar having come, he said to him, Teacher, I will follow thee wherever thou may go.
And Jesus says to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky, nests, but the Son of man has nowhere he may lay his head.
And another of his disciples said to him, Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father.
But Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.
And upon his entering into the boat, his disciples followed him.
And behold, a great tempest developed in the sea, so as for the boat to be covered by the waves, but he was sleeping.
And the disciples having approached, they awoke him, saying, Save us, Lord, we are perishing.
And he says to them, Why are ye cowardly, O ye of little faith? Then after rising, he rebuked the winds and the sea, and there became a great calm.
But the men marveled, saying, What kind of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?
And upon his coming to the other side, into the country of the Gergesenes, two men being demon possessed met him, coming out of the sepulchers, exceedingly fierce, so that no man could pass by that way.
And behold, they cried out, saying, What is with us and thee, Jesus, Son of God? Did thou come here before the time to torment us?
Now there was afar off from them a herd of many swine feeding.
And the demons besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, allow us to go away into the herd of swine.
And he said to them, Go. And having come out, they went into the herd of swine. And behold, the whole herd of the swine stampeded down the slope into the sea, and perished in the waters.
And those who tended them fled, and having gone into the city, they told everything, also the things of the men being demon possessed.
And behold, the whole city came out to a meeting with Jesus. And having seen him, they besought him that he would depart from their regions.