I waited patiently for Yahweh,—And he inclined, unto me, and heard my cry for help;
So he brought me up, Out of the destroying pit, Out of the swampy mire,—And set, upon a cliff, my feet, Making firm my steps:
Then put he, into my mouth, a new song, Praise to our God,—Many shall see and revere, And shall trust in Yahweh.
How happy the man, Who hath made Yahweh his confidence, who hath not turned unto the haughty, nor gone aside unto falsehood.
Mighty things, hast thou done—Thou, Yahweh my God, Thy wonderful doings and thy purposes towards us, There is no setting them in order unto thee—I would tell, and would speak!—They are too great to rehearse.
Sacrifice and meal-offering, thou didst not delight in, Ears, didst thou pierce for me,—Ascending-sacrifice and sin-bearer, thou didst not ask:
Then, said I—Lo! I am come, In the written scroll, is it prescribed for me;
To do thy good-pleasure, O my God, is my delight, And, thy law, is in the midst of mine inward parts:
I have told the good-tidings of righteousness in a great convocation, Lo! my lips, do I not restrain, O Yahweh, thou, knowest:
Thy righteousness, have I not hid in the midst of my heart, Thy faithfulness and thy salvation, have I spoken, I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truthfulness from the great convocation.
Thou, O Yahweh, wilt not restrain thy compassions from me, Thy lovingkindness and thy truthfulness, shall continually watch over me.
For there have closed in upon me, misfortunes beyond number, Mine iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see, They have become more than the hairs of my head, And, my courage, hath forsaken me!
Be pleased, O Yahweh, to rescue me, O Yahweh! to help me, make haste!
Let them turn pale and then at once blush, who are seeking my life to snatch it away,—Let them draw back, and be confounded, who are taking pleasure in my calamity;
Let them be astonished on account of their own shame, who are saying of me, Aha! Aha!
Let all them be glad and rejoice in thee, who are seekers of thee. Let them say continually—Yahweh be magnified! who are lovers of thy salvation.
But, I, being oppressed and needy, May My Lord devise for me,—My help and my deliverer, thou art! O my God, do not tarry!