Then Tobit called his son to him, and he said to him, “What are we able to give to this holy man, who accompanied you?”
Tobias, answering, said to his father: “Father, what wages shall we give him? And what could be worthy of his benefits?
He led me and he brought me back safely. He received the money from Gabael. He caused me to have my wife. And he confined the demon away from her. He caused joy to her parents. Myself, he rescued from being devoured by the fish. As for you, he also caused you to see the light of heaven. And so, we have been filled with all good things through him. What could we possibly give to him that would be worthy of these things?
But I implore you, my father, to ask him if he would perhaps deign to take for himself half of all the things that have been brought.”
And calling him, the father especially, and the son, they took him aside. And they began to petition him, so that he would deign to accept ownership of one half part of all things that they had brought.
Then he said to them privately: “Bless the God of heaven, and confess to him in the sight of all who live, for he has acted in his mercy toward you.
For it is good to conceal the secret of a king, just as it is also honorable to reveal and to confess the works of God.
Prayer with fasting is good, and almsgiving is better than hiding away gold in storage.
For almsgiving delivers from death, and the same is what purges sins and makes one able to find mercy and everlasting life.
But those who commit sin and iniquity are enemies to their own soul.
Therefore, I reveal the truth to you, and I will not hide the explanation from you.
When you prayed with tears, and buried the dead, and left behind your dinner, and hid the dead by day in your house, and buried them by night: I offered your prayer to the Lord.
And because you were acceptable to God, it was necessary for you to be tested by trials.
And now, the Lord has sent me to cure you, and to free Sarah, your son’s wife, from the demon.
For I am the Angel Raphael, one of seven, who stand before the Lord.”
And when they had heard these things, they were troubled, and being seized with fear, they fell upon the ground on their face.
And the Angel said to them: “Peace be to you. Fear not.
For when I was with you, I was there by the will of God. Bless him, and sing to him.
Indeed, I seemed to eat and drink with you, but I make use of an invisible food and drink, which cannot be seen by men.
Therefore, it is time that I return to him who sent me. But as for you, bless God, and describe all his wonders.”
And when he had said these things, he was taken from their sight, and they were not able to see him any longer.
Then, lying prostrate for three hours upon their face, they blessed God. And rising up, they described all his wonders.