The LORD said unto Moses, See, I have constituted thee as god unto Pharaoh; and Aaron, thy brother, shall be thy prophet.
Thou shalt speak all that I shall command thee; and Aaron, thy brother, shall speak unto Pharaoh that he send the sons of Israel out of his land.
And I will harden Pharaoh's heart and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you, but I shall lay my hand upon Egypt and bring forth my hosts, [and] my people, the sons of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.
And the Egyptians shall know that I [am] the LORD when I stretch forth my hand upon Egypt and bring out the sons of Israel from among them.
And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them, so did they.
And Moses [was] eighty years old and Aaron eighty-three years old when they spoke unto Pharaoh.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,
If Pharaoh shall answer you, saying, Show a miracle, then thou shalt say unto Aaron, Take thy rod and cast [it] before Pharaoh, that it shall become a dragon.
So Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did as the LORD had commanded; and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a dragon.
Then Pharaoh also called wise men and sorcerers; now the magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their fire [worship].
For each one cast down his rod, and they became dragons; but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods.
And Pharaoh's heart became hard, that he hearkened not unto them as the LORD had said.
Then the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart [is become] grievous, for he refuses to let the people go.
Go unto Pharaoh in the morning; behold, he goes out unto the water; and thou shalt stand by the river's brink before him and take in thy hand the rod which was turned to a serpent
and say unto him, The LORD, the God of the Hebrews has sent me unto thee, saying, Let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness; and, behold, until now thou hast not desired to hear.
Thus hath the LORD said, In this thou shalt know that I [am] the LORD; behold, I will smite with the rod that [is] in my hand the waters which [are] in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.
And the fish that [are] in the river shall die, and the river shall stink; and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink the water of the river.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Take thy rod and stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their rivers, upon their streams, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools of water, that they may become blood and [that] there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in [vessels of] wood and in [vessels of] stone.
And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded; and lifting up the rod, he smote the waters that [were] in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that [were] in the river were turned to blood.
And the fish that [were] in the river died; and the river became corrupted, so that the Egyptians could not drink the water of the river; and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt.
And the magicians of Egypt did the same with their enchantments; and Pharaoh's heart hardened itself, and he did not hearken unto them, as the LORD had said.
And Pharaoh turned and returned to his house, and even with all this he did not take this to heart.
And in all Egypt they dug wells round about the river for water to drink, for they could not drink of the water of the river.
And seven days were fulfilled after the LORD had smitten the river.: