And he brought me to the temple and measured the pillars, six cubits wide from here and six cubits wide from there, which was the breadth of the tabernacle.
And the breadth of the door was ten cubits; and the sides of the door, five cubits from here, and five cubits from there. And he measured its length, forty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits.
And he went inside and measured the pillar of the door, two cubits; and the door was six cubits; and the breadth of the door, seven cubits.
And he measured its length, twenty cubits; and the breadth, twenty cubits, before the temple. And he said to me, This is the Holy of Holies.
And he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the width of each side room was four cubits, all around the house on every side.
And the side chambers were a side chamber over a side chamber, three stories, and thirty times. And they entered the wall of the house for the side chambers all around, that they might be fastened, for they were not fastened to the wall of the house.
And there was a widening, and a winding upwards and upwards to the side chambers. For the winding around of the house went upward and upward, all around the house. On account of this the width of the house went upward, and so from the lowest it went up to the highest by the middle story.
I also saw the height of the house all around. The foundations of the side rooms were a full reed, six large cubits by joining.
The width of the wall, which was for the side chamber to the outside, was five cubits, and what was left between the side chambers that were of the house.
And between the chambers was the width of twenty cubits, circling the house all around.
And the door of the side chamber was toward the open space, one door northward and one door southward. And the width of the place of the open space was five cubits all around.
And the building that was before the separate place at the end of the way of the west was seventy cubits wide. And the wall of the building was five cubits wide all around, and its length, ninety cubits.
And he measured the house, a hundred cubits long. And the separate place, and the building, and its wall, were a hundred cubits long.
And the width of the front of the house and of the separate place eastward was a hundred cubits.
And he measured the length of the building to the front of the separate place which was behind it; and its gallery from here and from there, a hundred cubits, with the inner temple and the porches of the court,
the thresholds, and the latticed narrow windows, and the galleries all around, their three stories across from the threshold, with wood panelings all around, and from the ground up to the windows; and the windows were covered;
to that above the door, even to the inner house, and outside, and by all the wall around inside and outside, by measure.
And it was made with cherubs and palm trees, and a palm tree was between cherub and cherub. And each cherub had two faces,
the face of a man was toward the palm tree from here, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree from there. It was made through all the house all around.
From the ground to above the door were cherubs and palm trees made, and on the wall of the temple.
The temple doorposts were squared, and the face of the sanctuary. The looks of the one was like the looks of the other.
The altar of wood was three cubits high, and its length two cubits. And its corners, and its length, and its walls, were of wood. And he said to me, This is the table that is before the LORD.
And the temple and the sanctuary had two doors.
And two doors leaves were to each of the doors, two turning doors, two for the one door, and two for the other door.
And on them, on the temple doors, were made cherubs and palm trees like those made on the walls, and thick wood on the face of the porch outside.
And latticed windows, and palm trees, were from here and from there, on the sides of the porch, and on the side chambers of the house, and wooden canopies.