After this was the feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Now there is in Jerusalem, near the sheep-gate, a pool, called, in the Hebrew tongue, Bethesda, with five porches.
In these lay a great multitude of sick persons, blind, lame, withered, who waited for the moving of the water.
For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and stirred the water. Then he who entered first after the motion of the water, was cured of whatever disease he had.
And a certain man was there, who had been sick thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw him lying, and knew that he had been already a long time in that condition, he said to him: Do you wish to be restored to health?
The sick man answered him: Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is stirred; but while I am coming, another goes down before me.
Jesus said to him: Arise, take up your bed and walk.
And the man was immediately restored to health; and he took up his bed and walked. And that day was the sabbath.
The Jews, therefore, said to him that was cured: It is the sabbath; it is not lawful for you to carry your bed.
He answered them: He that restored me to health said to me, Take up your bed and walk.
Then they asked him: Who is he that said to you, Take up your bed and walk?
But he that had been restored to health knew not who he was; for Jesus had withdrawn himself, because a multitude was in the place.
After this Jesus found him in the temple, and said to him: Behold, you have been restored to health; sin no more, lest some worse thing befall you.
The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus that had restored him to health.
And for this reason did the Jews persecute Jesus, and seek to kill him, because he had done these things on the sabbath.
But Jesus answered them: My Father works till now, and I also work.
For this reason, therefore, the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he had not only broken the sabbath, but also said that God was his own father, making himself equal with God.
Then Jesus answered and said to them: Verily, verily I say to you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father do; for whatever things he does, these also the Son does in like manner.
For the Father loves the Son, and shows him all things that he himself does; and he will show him greater works than these, that you may be astonished.
For as the Father raises the dead, and makes them alive, so also the Son makes alive whom he will.
For the Father judges no one, but has given all judicial authority to the Son;
that all may honor the Son, as they honor the Father. He that honors not the Son, honors not the Father who sent him.
Verily, verily I say to you, He that hears my word, and believes on him that sent me, has eternal life, and comes not into condemnation, but has passed from death into life.
Verily, verily I say to you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear, shall live.
For as the Father has life in himself, so has he given to the Son also to have life in himself;
and he has given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.
Be not astonished at this; for the hour is coming in which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,
and shall come forth; those who have done good, to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of condemnation.
I can of myself do nothing. As I hear, I judge; and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of him that sent me.
If I testify concerning myself, my testimony is not worthy of credit.
There is another that testifies concerning me, and I know that the testimony which he testifies concerning me is worthy of credit.
You sent to John, and he bore testimony to the truth.
But I receive not testimony from man; yet I say these things that you may be saved.
He was the burning and shining lamp; and you were willing, for a time, to rejoice in his light.
But I have testimony greater than that of John; for the works which the Father has given me to finish, these very works which I do, testify concerning me, that the Father has sent me.
And the Father, who sent me, has testified concerning me. You have, neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape.
And his word you have not remaining in you; for whom he has sent, him you believe not.
You search the scriptures, because in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify concerning me:
and yet you refuse to come to me, that you may have life.
I receive not honor from men.
But I know you, that you have not the love of God in you.
I have come in my Father’s name, and you receive me not; if another should come in his own name, him you would receive.
How can you believe who receive honor one from another, and seek not the honor that comes from God alone?
Think not that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuses you, Moses, in whom you trust.
For if you had believed Moses, you would have believed me; for he wrote of me.
But if you believe not his writings, how shall you believe my words?