If ye then be risen with the Messiah, seek those things which are above, where the Messiah sitteth on the right hand of יהוה.
Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth.
For ye are dead, and your life is hid with the Messiah in יהוה.
When the Messiah, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.
Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry:
For which things' sake the wrath of יהוה cometh on the children of disobedience:
In the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them.
But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth.
Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds;
And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him:
Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but the Messiah is all, and in all.
Put on therefore, as the elect of יהוה, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering;
Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: even as the Messiah forgave you, so also do ye.
And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.
And let the peace of Elohim rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful.
Let the word of the Messiah dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with favour in your hearts to the Master.
And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Master Yahushua, giving thanks to יהוה the Father by him.
Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the Master.
Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.
Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing unto יהוה.
Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged.
Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh; not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing יהוה:
And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to יהוה, and not unto men;
Knowing that of יהוה ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye serve Yahushua the Messiah.
But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.