Unto the end. A Canticle Psalm of David himself.
May God rise up, and may his enemies be scattered, and may those who hate him flee from before his face.
Just as smoke vanishes, so may they vanish. Just as wax flows away before the face of fire, so may sinners pass away before the face of God.
And so, let the just feast, and let them exult in the sight of God and be delighted in gladness.
Sing to God, sing a psalm to his name. Make a path for him, who ascends over the west. The Lord is his name. Exult in his sight; they will be stirred up before his face,
the father of orphans and the judge of widows. God is in his holy place.
It is God who makes men dwell in a house under one custom. He leads out those who are strongly bound, and similarly, those who exasperate, who dwell in sepulchers.
O God, when you departed in the sight of your people, when you passed through the desert,
the earth was moved, for the heavens rained down before the face of the God of Sinai, before the face of the God of Israel.
You will set aside for your inheritance, O God, a willing rain. And though it was weak, truly, you have made it perfect.
Your animals will dwell in it. O God, in your sweetness, you have provided for the poor.
The Lord will give the word to evangelizers, along with great virtue.
The King of virtue is beloved among the beloved. And the beauty of the house will divide spoils.
If you take your rest in the midst of the clergy, you will be like a dove whose wings are covered with fine silver and edged with pale gold.
When heaven discerns kings to be over her, they will be whitened with the snows of Zalmon.
The mountain of God is a fat mountain, a dense mountain, a thick mountain.
So then, why are you distrustful of dense mountains? The mountain on which God is well pleased to dwell, even there, the Lord will dwell until the end.
The chariot of God is ten thousand fold: thousands rejoice. The Lord is with them in Sinai, in the holy place.
You have ascended on high; you have taken captivity captive. You have accepted gifts among men. For even those who do not believe dwell with the Lord God.
Blessed is the Lord, day after day. The God of our salvation will make our journey prosper for us.
Our God is the God who will bring about our salvation, and our Lord is the Lord who has brought an end to death.
So then, truly, God will break the heads of his enemies, the hairy skull of those who wander around in their offenses.
The Lord said: I will turn them away from Bashan, I will turn them into the depths of the sea,
so that your feet may be soaked in the blood of your enemies, so that the tongue of your dogs may be soaked with the same.
O God, they have seen your arrival, the arrival of my God, of my king who is in a holy place.
The leaders went ahead, united with the singers of psalms, in the midst of girls playing on timbrels.
In the churches, bless the Lord God from the fountains of Israel.
In that place, Benjamin is a youth in ecstasy of mind. The leaders of Judah are their governors: the leaders of Zebulun, the leaders of Naphtali.
Command by your virtue, O God. Confirm in this place, O God, what you have wrought in us.
Before your temple in Jerusalem, kings will offer gifts to you.
Rebuke the wild beasts of the reeds, a congregation of bulls with the cows of the people, for they seek to exclude those who have been tested like silver. Scatter the nations that are pleased by wars.
Ambassadors will come out of Egypt. Ethiopia will offer in advance her hands to God.
Sing to God, O kingdoms of the earth. Sing psalms to the Lord. Sing psalms to God.
He ascends, up to the heaven of the heavens, toward the east. Behold, he will utter his voice, the voice of virtue.
Give glory to God beyond Israel. His magnificence and his virtue is in the clouds.
God is wonderful in his saints. The God of Israel himself will give virtue and strength to his people. Blessed is God.