And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say thou to those who prophesy out of their own heart, Hear ye the word of Jehovah.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: Woe to the foolish prophets, who follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
O Israel, thy prophets have been like foxes in the waste places.
Ye have not gone up into the gaps, nor built up the wall for the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of Jehovah.
They have seen falsehood and lying divination, who say, Jehovah says, but Jehovah has not sent them. And they have made men to hope that the word would be confirmed.
Have ye not seen a false vision, and have ye not spoken a lying divination, in that ye say, Jehovah says, albeit I have not spoken?
Therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Because ye have spoken falsehood, and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am against you, says the lord Jehovah.
And my hand shall be against the prophets who see false visions, and who divine lies. They shall not be in the council of my people, nor shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel. And ye shall know that I am the lord Jehovah.
Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying, Peace, and there is no peace, and when a man builds up a wall, behold, they daub it with untempered mortar,
say to those who daub it with untempered mortar, that it shall fall. There shall be an overflowing shower, and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall, and a stormy wind shall rend it.
Lo, when the wall has fallen, shall it not be said to you, Where is the daubing with which ye have daubed it?
Therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: I will even rend it with a stormy wind in my wrath, and there shall be an overflowing shower in my anger, and great hailstones in wrath to consume it.
So I will break down the wall that ye have daubed with untempered mortar, and bring it down to the ground, so that the foundation thereof shall be uncovered. And it shall fall, and ye shall be consumed in the midst of it. And ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
Thus I will accomplish my wrath upon the wall, and upon those who have daubed it with untempered mortar. And I will say to you, The wall is no more, nor those who daubed it,
namely, the prophets of Israel who prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and who see visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, says the lord Jehovah.
And thou, son of man, set thy face against the daughters of thy people, who prophesy out of their own heart, and prophesy thou against them.
And say, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Woe to the women who sew pillows upon all elbows, and make headdresses for the head of every stature to hunt souls! Will ye hunt the souls of my people, and save souls alive for yourselves?
And ye have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to kill the souls who should not die, and to save the souls alive who should not live, by your lying to my people who listen to lies.
Therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against your pillows, with which ye hunt the souls there to make fly, and I will tear them from your arms. And I will let the souls go, even the souls that ye hunt to make fly.
I will also tear your headdresses, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall no more be in your hand to be hunted. And ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
Because with lies ye have grieved the heart of the righteous, whom I have not made sad, and strengthened the hands of the wicked, that he should not return from his wicked way, and be saved alive.
Therefore ye shall no more see false visions, nor divine divinations. And I will deliver my people out of your hand. And ye shall know that I am Jehovah.