And having called together His twelve disciples, He gave them power and authority over all the demons, and to heal diseases.
And He sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God, and to heal the ones being sick.
And He said to them, Take nothing for the way, neither staffs, nor moneybags, nor bread, nor silver, nor each to have two tunics.
And into whatever house you enter, remain there, and go out from there.
And as many as may not receive you, going out from that city even shake off the dust from your feet, for a testimony against them.
And going out, they passed through the villages, having announced the gospel, and healing everywhere.
And Herod the tetrarch heard all the things happening by Him, and was puzzled, because of the saying by some that John had been raised from the dead,
and by some that Elijah had appeared. And others said , A prophet of the ancients rose again.
And Herod said, I beheaded John, but who is this about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see Him.
And returning, the apostles told Him what things they did. And taking them He went out privately to a deserted place of a city called Bethsaida.
But knowing this , the crowds followed Him. And having received them, He spoke to them about the kingdom of God. And He cured those having need of healing.
But the day began to wane. And coming up the Twelve said to Him, Let the crowd go that going to the surrounding villages and farms they may lodge and find food supplies, because here we are in a deserted place.
But He said to them, You give them to eat. But they said, There are not to us more than five loaves and two fish, unless going we buy foods for all this people.
For they were about five thousand men. But He said to His disciples, Make them recline in groups, by fifties.
And they did so, and made all recline.
And taking the five loaves and the two fish, looking up to Heaven, He blessed them, and broke, and gave to the disciples to set before the crowd.
And they ate and were all satisfied. And twelve hand baskets of fragments of that left over to them were taken up.
And it happened as He was praying alone, the disciples were with Him. And He questioned them, saying, Whom do the crowds say Me to be?
And answering, they said, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; and others that some prophet of the ancients has risen again.
And He said to them, But whom do you say Me to be? And answering, Peter said, The Christ of God.
And strictly warning them, He ordered no one to tell this,
saying, The Son of man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised the third day.
And He said to all, If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily. And let him follow Me.
For whoever desires to save his life, he will lose it. But whoever loses his life for My sake, this one will save it.
For what is a man profited gaining the whole world but destroying himself or suffering loss?
For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words, the Son of man will be ashamed of that one when He comes in His glory, and that of the Father, and of the holy angels.
But truly I say to you, There are some of those standing here who in no way shall taste of death until they see the kingdom of God.
And about eight days after these sayings, it happened: also taking Peter and John and James, He went into the mountain to pray.
And in His praying, the appearance of His face became different, and His clothing was dazzling white.
And, behold, two men talked with Him, who were Moses and Elijah.
Appearing in glory, they spoke of His exodus, which He was about to accomplish in Jerusalem.
But Peter and those with him were pressed down with sleep. But fully awakening, they saw His glory, and the two men standing with Him.
And it happened in their parting from Him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here. And, Let us make three tents, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah, not knowing what he said.
And he saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them. And they feared as those entered into the cloud.
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is My Son, the Beloved; hear Him! Psa. 2:7; Isa. 42:1; Deut. 18:15
And as the voice occurred, Jesus was found alone. And they were quiet. And they reported to no one in those days, nothing which they had seen.
And it happened on the next day, they coming down from the mountain, a huge crowd met Him.
And, behold, a man called aloud from the crowd, saying, Teacher, I beg You to look at my son, because he is my only born.
And, behold, a spirit takes him, and he suddenly cries out, and it throws him into convulsions, with foaming. And it departs from him with pain, bruising him.
And I begged Your disciples, that they cast it out. And they were not able.
And answering, Jesus said, O unbelieving and having been perverted generation, how long shall I be with you and endure you? Bring your son here.
But as he was yet coming up, the demon tore him and violently convulsed him . But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the child, and gave him back to his father.
And all were astonished at the majesty of God. And as all were marveling at all things which He did, Jesus said to His disciples,
You lay into your ears these sayings, for the Son of man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men.
But they did not understand this saying, and it was veiled from them so that they might not perceive it. And they feared to ask Him about this word.
But an argument came in among them, who might be the greater of them.
And seeing the argument of their heart, taking a child, Jesus stood it beside Himself,
and said to them, Whoever receives this child on My name receives Me. And whoever receives Me receives Him who sent Me. For the one being least among you all, this one shall be great.
And answering, John said, Master, we saw someone casting out demons on Your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow with us.
And Jesus said to them, Do not forbid, for whoever is not against us is for us.
And it happened in the fulfilling of the days of His taking up, even He set His face to go to Jerusalem.
And He sent messengers before His face. And going they went into a village of Samaritans, so as to make ready for Him.
And they did not receive Him, because His face was going toward Jerusalem.
And seeing, His disciples James and John said, Lord, do You desire that we tell fire to come down from Heaven, and to destroy them, even as Elijah did? 2 K. 1:10-12
But turning He rebuked them. And He said, You do not know of what spirit you are.
For the Son of man did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save. And they went to another village.
And it happened as they were going in the way, one said to Him, I will follow You everywhere You may go, Lord.
And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven nests, but the Son of man has nowhere He may lay His head.
And He said to another, Follow Me. But he said, Lord, allow me to go first to bury my father.
But Jesus said to him, Leave the dead to bury their dead, but going out, you announce the kingdom of God.
And also another said, I will follow You, Lord, but first allow me to take leave of those in my house.
But Jesus said to him, No one putting his hand on the plow, and looking at the things behind, is fit for the kingdom of God.