And bring thou near to thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the sons of Israel, that he may minister to me in the priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's sons.
And thou shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, for glory and for beauty.
And thou shall speak to all who are wise-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they make Aaron's garments to sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest's office.
And these are the garments which they shall make: a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a tunic of checker work, a miter, and a sash. And they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons, that he may minister to me in the priest's office.
And they shall take the gold, and the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen.
And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the skilful workman.
It shall have two shoulder-pieces joined to the two ends of it, that it may be joined together.
And the skillfully woven band, which is upon it, with which to gird it on, shall be like the work of it and of the same piece, of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
And thou shall take two onyx stones, and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel:
six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the six that remain on the other stone, according to their birth.
With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, thou shall engrave the two stones, according to the names of the sons of Israel. Thou shall make them to be enclosed in settings of gold.
And thou shall put the two stones upon the shoulder-pieces of the ephod, to be stones of memorial for the sons of Israel. And Aaron shall bear their names before Jehovah upon his two shoulders for a memorial.
And thou shall make settings of gold,
and two chains of pure gold, like cords shall thou make them, of wreathen work. And thou shall put the wreathen chains on the settings.
And thou shall make a breastplate of judgment, the work of the skilful workman. Thou shall make it like the work of the ephod: of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, thou shall make it.
It shall be foursquare and double, a span shall be the length of it, and a span the breadth of it.
And thou shall set in it settings of stones, four rows of stones: a row of sardius, topaz, and carbuncle shall be the first row,
and the second row an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond,
and the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst,
and the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper. They shall be enclosed in gold in their settings.
And the stones shall be according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, every one according to his name; they shall be for the twelve tribes.
And thou shall make upon the breastplate chains like cords, of wreathen work of pure gold.
And thou shall make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
And thou shall put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains thou shall put on the two settings, and put them on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod in the forepart of it.
And thou shall make two rings of gold, and thou shall put them upon the two ends of the breastplate, upon the edge of it, which is toward the side of the ephod inward.
And thou shall make two rings of gold, and shall put them on the two shoulder-pieces of the ephod underneath, in the forepart of it, close by the coupling of it, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings of it to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be upon the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed from the ephod.
And Aaron shall bear the names of the sons of Israel in the breastplate of judgment upon his heart, when he goes in to the holy place, for a memorial before Jehovah continually.
And thou shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim, and they shall be upon Aaron's heart, when he goes in before Jehovah. And Aaron shall bear the judgment of the sons of Israel upon his heart before Jehovah continually.
And thou shall make the robe of the ephod all of blue.
And it shall have a hole for the head in the midst of it. It shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of it, as it were the hole of a coat of mail, that it be not torn.
And upon the skirts of it thou shall make pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the skirts of it, and bells of gold between them round about:
a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the skirts of the robe round about.
And it shall be upon Aaron to minister. And the sound of it shall be heard when he goes in to the holy place before Jehovah, and when he comes out, that he does not die.
And thou shall make a plate of pure gold, and engrave upon it, like the engravings of a signet, HOLY TO JEHOVAH.
And thou shall put it on a lace of blue, and it shall be upon the miter. It shall be upon the forefront of the miter.
And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead. And Aaron shall bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the sons of Israel shall hallow in all their holy gifts. And it shall always be upon his forehead, that they may be accepted before Jehovah.
And thou shall weave the tunic in checker work of fine linen. And thou shall make a miter of fine linen. And thou shall make a sash, the work of the embroiderer.
And for Aaron's sons thou shall make tunics. And thou shall make for them sashes, and head-coverings thou shall make for them, for glory and for beauty.
And thou shall put them upon Aaron thy brother, and upon his sons with him, and shall anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest's office.
And thou shall make for them linen breeches to cover the flesh of their nakedness, from the loins even to the thighs they shall reach.
And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they go in to the tent of meeting, or when they come near to the altar to minister in the holy place, that they not bear iniquity, and die. It shall be a statute forever to him and to his seed after him.