Stand fast therefore in the liberty with which Christ has made us free, and do not again be held with the yoke of bondage.
Behold, I, Paul, say to you that if you are circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do all the Law,
you who are justified by Law are deprived of all effect from Christ; you fell from grace.
For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness out of faith.
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any strength, but faith working through love.
You were running well. Who hindered you that you do not obey the truth?
This persuasion is not from Him who calls you.
A little leaven leavens all the lump.
I have confidence in you in the Lord, that you will think nothing else, but that he troubling you shall bear the judgment, whoever he may be.
And I, brothers, if I yet proclaim circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the offense of the Cross has ceased.
I wish that those causing you to doubt will cut themselves off.
For, brothers, you were called to liberty. Only do not use the liberty for an opening to the flesh, but by love serve one another.
For all the Law is fulfilled in one word, even in this, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."
But if you bite and devour one another, take heed that you are not consumed by one another.
I say, then, Walk in the Spirit and you shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh.
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary to one another; lest whatever you may will, these things you do.
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law.
Now the works of the flesh are clearly revealed, which are: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lustfulness,
idolatry, sorcery, hatreds, fightings, jealousies, angers, rivalries, divisions, heresies,
envyings, murders, drunkennesses, revelings, and things like these; of which I tell you before, as I also said before, that they who do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is: love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faith,
meekness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
But those belonging to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts.
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Let us not become glory-seeking, provoking one another, envying one another.