MY dear children, these things I write to you, that ye should not sin. And if any of us sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous:
and he himself is the propitiatory victim for our sins: and indeed not for ours only, but for the whole world.
And hereby we know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and in him the truth is not.
But whosoever keepeth his word, verily in him is the love of God perfected: by this we know that we are in him.
He who saith that he abideth in him, ought as he walked, even so himself to walk.
Brethren, I write not a new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning: the old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning.
Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which is a true thing in him, and in you, because the darkness is past, and the true light is now shining.
He who saith, that he is in the light, yet hateth his brother, is in darkness even until now.
He that loveth his brother is in the light, and occasion of stumbling in him there is none.
But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he is departing, because the darkness hath blinded his eyes.
I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name’s sake.
I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father.
I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him, who is from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one.
Love not the world, neither the things which are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
For every thing which is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pomp of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.
And the world is passing away, and the lust thereof, but he who doeth the will of God abideth for ever.
My dear children, it is the last hour; and as ye have heard that antichrist is coming, even now there are many antichrists: by which we know it is the last hour.
They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us; but they departed, that they might be made manifest that they are not all of us:
though ye have an unction from the Holy One, and know all things.
I have not written to you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth.
Who is the liar, but he that denieth that Jesus is the Messiah? This man is the antichrist, who denieth the Father and the Son.
Every one that denieth the Son, neither doth he hold the Father; but he that acknowledgeth the Son, holdeth the Father also.
Let that abide in you therefore which ye have heard from the beginning. If that abide in you which ye heard from the beginning, ye also shall abide in the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise which he hath promised to us, even life eternal.
These things have I written unto you concerning those who are leading you astray.
But the unction which ye have received from him abideth in you; and ye need not that any person should instruct you. But as the same unction teacheth you concerning all things, and is true, and is no lie; and as it hath taught you, abide in him.
And now, my dear children, abide in him; that when he shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be put to shame by him at his coming.
If ye know that he is righteous, know that every one who practises righteousness is born of him.