And David spoke to Jehovah the words of this song in the day that Jehovah delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul:
And he said, Jehovah is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer, even mine.
God, my rock, in him I will take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, and my refuge, my savior. Thou save me from violence.
I will call upon Jehovah, who is worthy to be praised. So I shall be saved from my enemies.
For the waves of death encompassed me. The floods of ungodliness made me afraid.
The cords of Sheol were round about me. The snares of death came upon me.
In my distress I called upon Jehovah. Yea, I called to my God. And he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came into his ears.
Then the earth shook and trembled, the foundations of heaven quaked and were shaken, because he was angry.
There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured. Coals were kindled by it.
He bowed the heavens also, and came down, and thick darkness was under his feet.
And he rode upon a cherub, and flew. Yea, he was seen upon the wings of the wind.
And he made darkness pavilions round about him, gathering of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
At the brightness before him coals of fire were kindled.
Jehovah thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice.
And he sent out arrows, and scattered them, lightning, and discomfited them.
Then the channels of the sea appeared. The foundations of the world were laid bare by the rebuke of Jehovah, at the blast of the breath of his nostrils.
He sent from on high, he took me. He drew me out of many waters.
He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
They came upon me in the day of my calamity, but Jehovah was my support.
He brought me forth also into a large place. He delivered me, because he delighted in me.
Jehovah rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands he has rewarded me.
For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
For all his ordinances were before me. And as for his statutes, I did not depart from them.
I was also perfect toward him, and I kept myself from my iniquity.
Therefore Jehovah has recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness in his eyesight.
With the merciful thou will show thyself merciful. With the perfect man thou will show thyself perfect.
With the pure thou will show thyself pure. And with the perverse thou will show thyself contrary.
And the afflicted people thou will save, but thine eyes are upon the haughty, that thou may bring them down.
For thou are my lamp, O Jehovah. And Jehovah will lighten my darkness.
For by thee I run upon a troop. By my God do I leap over a wall.
As for God, his way is perfect. The word of Jehovah is tried. He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.
For who is God, except Jehovah? And who is a rock, except our God?
God is my strong fortress, and he guides the perfect in his way.
He makes his feet like hinds' feet, and sets me upon my high places.
He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms bend a bow of brass.
Thou have also given me the shield of thy salvation, and thy gentleness has made me great.
Thou have enlarged my steps under me, and my feet have not slipped.
I have pursued my enemies, and destroyed them, neither did I turn again till they were consumed.
And I have consumed them, and smitten them through, so that they cannot arise. Yea, they are fallen under my feet.
For thou have girded me with strength to the battle. Thou have subdued under me those who rose up against me.
Thou have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who hate me.
They looked, but there was none to save; even to Jehovah, but he did not answer them.
Then I beat them small as the dust of the earth. I crushed them as the mire of the streets, and spread them abroad.
Thou have also delivered me from the strivings of my people. Thou have kept me to be the head of the nations. A people whom I have not known shall serve me.
The foreigners shall submit themselves to me. As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me.
The foreigners shall fade away, and shall come trembling out of their hiding places.
Jehovah lives. And blessed be my rock. And exalted be God, the rock of my salvation,
Even the God who executes vengeance for me, and who brings down peoples under me,
and who brings me forth from my enemies. Yea, thou lift me up above those who rise up against me. Thou deliver me from the violent man.
Therefore I will give thanks to thee, O Jehovah, among gentiles, and will sing praises to thy name.
He gives great deliverance to his king, and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to David and to his seed, for evermore.