And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, These are the living things which you shall eat out of all the animals which are on the earth.
Any that divides the hoof and is wholly clovenfooted, bringing up the cud, among the living things, you may eat it.
Only, you may not eat these, of those bringing up the cud, and of those dividing the hoof: the camel, though it brings up the cud, yet it does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you;
and the rock badger, though it brings up the cud, yet it does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you;
and the hare, though it brings up the cud, yet it does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you;
and the swine, though it divides the hoof and is clovenfooted, yet it does not bring up the cud; it is unclean to you.
You shall not eat of their flesh, and you shall not touch their dead body; they are unclean to you.
Of all that are in the waters, you shall eat these; any one that has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the torrents, you may eat them.
But any one that does not have fins and scales in the seas, and in the torrents, of any swarming creature of the waters, and of any creature which lives in the waters; they are to be detested by you.
Yes, they shall be detested by you; you shall not eat of their flesh and you shall shun their dead bodies.
Any one that does not have fins and scales in the waters, it shall be an unclean thing to you.
And these you shall count unclean among the fowls; they shall not be eaten; they are unclean: the eagle, and the black vulture and the bearded vulture,
and the kite, and the falcon, according to its kind;
every raven according to its kind;
and the ostrich, and the great owl, and the gull, and small hawks, according to its kind
and the little owl, and the cormorant, and the eared owl;
and the barn owl, and the pelican and the owl-vulture;
and the stork, the heron according to its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
Every flying swarming creature going on all four, it is an abomination to you.
Only, this you may eat of any swarming thing which flies, which goes on all four, which has legs above its feet, to leap with them on the earth;
these are those you may eat: the locusts according to its kind, and the bald locust according to its kind, and the long horned locust according to its kind, and the short horned grasshopper according to its kind.
But every swarming thing which flies, which has four feet, it is unclean to you.
And by these you shall be made unclean; any who touches their dead body is unclean until the evening.
And anyone who lifts up their dead body shall wash his garments and shall be unclean until the evening;
even every living thing which divides the hoof, and is not clovenfooted, and does not bring up the cud, they are unclean to you; anyone who touches them shall be unclean.
And any going on its paws among all the living things which go on all four, they are unclean to you; anyone who touches their dead body is unclean until the evening;
and he who lifts up their dead body shall wash his garments and shall be unclean until the evening; they are unclean to you.
And these shall be unclean to you among the swarming things which swarm on the earth: the weasel, and the mouse, and the great lizard according to its kind,
and the gecko, and the monitor, and the lizard, and the sand lizard, and the barn owl.
These are unclean to you among all which swarm; anyone who touches them in their death is unclean until the evening.
And anything on which any one of them falls in their death is unclean, whether of any vessel of wood, or garment, or skin, or sack; any vessel in which work is done shall be caused to go into water, and shall be unclean until the evening; then it shall be cleaned.
Ad any earthen vessel into the midst of which any one of them falls, whatever is in it shall be unclean, and you shall break it.
And of all the food which may be eaten, that on which such water falls shall be unclean, and all drink that may be drunk in any such vessel shall be unclean.
And anything on which any part of their dead body falls shall be unclean; an oven or hearth shall be broken down; they are unclean; yes, they are unclean to you.
But a fountain or a well, a collection of water, shall be clean; only that touching the dead body is unclean.
And when any part of their dead body falls on any sowing seed which is sown, it shall be clean;
but when water is put on the seed, and any of its dead body has fallen on it, it shall be unclean to you.
And when any of the animals which are food for you dies, he who touches its dead body is unclean until the evening;
and he who eats of its dead body shall wash his garments and shall be unclean until the evening; and he who lifts up its dead body shall wash his garments and shall be unclean until the evening.
And every swarming thing which swarms on the earth is unclean; it shall not be eaten;
Anything going on its belly, and any going on all four, and all having many feet, even every swarming thing that swarms on the earth, you shall not eat them, for they are unclean;
you shall not pollute yourselves with any swarming thing which swarms, nor shall you make yourselves unclean with them, so that you should be defiled by them.
For I am Jehovah your God, and you have sanctified yourselves, and you have become holy, for I am holy. And you shall not defile your persons with any swarming thing which creeps on the earth;
for I am Jehovah who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to become your God; and you shall be holy, for I am holy.
This is the law of the animals, and of the fowl, and of every living creature which moves in the waters, and every creature which swarms on the earth,
to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean, and between the living thing that may be eaten and the living thing that may not be eaten.