For this "Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the most high God," the one meeting Abraham "returning from the slaughter" "of the kings," "and blessing him;"
to whom also Abraham "divided a tenth from all" (first being interpreted, king of righteousness; and then also king of Salem, which is, king of peace, Gen. 14:17-20
without father, without mother, without genealogy, nor beginning of days, nor having end of life, but having been made like the Son of God, he remains a priest in perpetuity).
Now behold how great this one was , to whom even the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the spoils;
and indeed those of the sons of Levi receiving the priesthood have a command to tithe the people according to Law, (that is, from their brothers, though coming forth out of Abraham's loins),
but he not counting his genealogy from them has tithed Abraham, and has blessed the one having the promises.
But without contradiction, the lesser is blessed by the better.
And here dying men indeed receive tithes, but there it having been witnessed that he lives;
and as a word to say, through Abraham Levi also, the one receiving tithes, has been tithed.
For he was yet in his father's loins when Melchizedek met him.
Truly, then, if perfection was through the Levitical priestly office (for the people had been given Law under it), why yet need for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek and not to be called according to the order of Aaron?
For the priestly office having been changed, of necessity a change of law also occurs.
For the One of whom these things are said has partaken of another tribe, from which no one has given devotion at the altar.
For it is clear that our Lord has risen out of Judah, as to which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priesthood.
And it is still more abundantly clear that if another priest arises according to the likeness of Melchizedek,
who has not become so according to a law of a fleshly command, but according to the power of an indissoluble life.
For it is testified, "You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek." Psa. 110:4
For a voiding of the preceding command comes about because of its weakness and unprofitableness.
For the Law perfected nothing, but a bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
And by how much it was not apart from the swearing of an oath;
for they have become priests without the swearing of an oath, but He with the swearing through Him who says to Him, " The Lord swore, and will not repent, You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek;" Psa. 110:4
by so much Jesus has become Surety of a better covenant.
And they truly are many priests, being hindered from continuing because of death;
but He has the priesthood not to be passed on, because of His continuing forever.
From this also He is able to save to perfection those who come to God through Him, ever living to intercede on their behalf.
For such a High Priest was fitting for us: holy, harmless, undefiled, and separated from sinners, and having become higher than the heavens;
who has no need, as do the high priests, to offer sacrifices day by day, first for His own sins, then for those of the people. For He did this once for all, offering up Himself.
For the Law makes men high priests who have infirmity, but the word of the swearing of an oath, after the Law, appoints the Son forever, having been perfected.