the sons of Judah, Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
And, Reaiah son of Shobal, begat Jahath, and, Jahath, begat Ahumai, and Lahad. These, are the families of the Zorathites.
And, these, were the sons of Etam, Jezreel and Ishma, and Idbash,—and, the name of their sister, was Hazzelelponi;
and Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer, the father of Hushah. These, are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem.
And, Ashhur the father of Tekoa, had two wives,—Helah, and Naarah.
And Naarah bare him Ahuzzam and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These, were the sons of Naarah.
And, the sons of Helah, were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.
And, Koz, begat Anub, and Zobebah,—and the families of Aharhel, the son of Harum.
Now it came to pass that Jabez was more honourable than his brethren,—but, his mother, had called his name Jabez, [="he causes pain"] saying, Because I bare him with pain.
So then Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou wouldst, indeed bless, me, and enlarge my boundary, and that thy hand might be with me,—and that thou wouldst work [to deliver me] from evil, that it be not my pain. And God brought about that which he asked.
And, Chelub the brother of Shuhah, begat Mehir, the same, was the father of Eshton.
And, Eshton, begat Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of Ir-nahash. These, are the men of Recah.
And, the sons of Kenaz, were Othniel, and Seraiah,—and, the sons of Othniel, Hathath.
And, Meonothai, begat Ophrah,—and, Seraiah, begat Joab, the father of Ge-harashim, for they were, craftsmen.
And, the sons of Caleb son of Jephunneh, were Iru, Elah, and Naam,—and the sons of Elah and Kenaz.
And, the sons of Jehallelel, Ziph and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.
And, the sons of Ezrah, Jether and Mered, and Epher and Jalon. And, these, are the sons of Bithia, daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took,—and she conceived and bare Miriam and Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa.
And, his wife, the Jewess, bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel, the father of Zanoah.
And, the sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the father of Keilah, the Garmite,—and Eshtemoa, the Maacathite.
And, the sons of Shimon, Amnon, and Rinnah, Ben-hanan and Tilon. And, the sons of Ishi, Zoheth, and Ben-zoheth.
the sons of Shelah, the son of Judah, Er, the father of Lecah, and Laadah, the father of Mareshah,—and the families of the house of them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea;
and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph who ruled for Moab, and Jashubi-lehem,—but, the records, are ancient.
They, were the potters and the inhabitants of Netaim, and Gederah,—with the king in his work, dwelt they there.
The sons of Simeon, Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul:
Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
And, the sons of Mishma, Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
And, Shimei, had sixteen sons, and six daughters, but, his brethren, had not many children,—nor did, any of their family, multiply so much as the sons of Judah.
And they dwelt in Beer-sheba, and Moladah, and Hazar-shual;
and in Bilhah, and in Ezem, and in Tolad;
and in Bethuel, and in Hormah, and in Ziklag;
and in Beth-marcaboth, and in Hazar-susim, and in Beth-biri, and in Shaaraim. These, were their cities unto the reign of David.
And, their villages, were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan,—five cities;
and all their villages that were round about these cities, as far as Baal. These, were their habitations, and they had their own genealogical register.
And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah;
and Joel,—and Jehu, the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel:
and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah:
and Ziza, son of Shiphi, son of Allon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah.
These, introduced by their names, were leading men in their families. And, their ancestral house, brake forth exceedingly;
so they went to the entering in of Gerar, unto the east of the valley,—to seek pasture for their flocks;
and they found pasture, fat and good, and, the land, was broad on both hands, and quiet, and secure,—for, of Ham, were the dwellers there aforetime.
But these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and smote their tents, and the Meunim who were found there, and devoted them, until this day, and dwelt in their stead,—for there was pasture for their flocks, there.
And, some of them, of the sons of Simeon, went to Mount Seir, five hundred men,—with Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, sons of Ishi, at their head;
and they smote the remainder that had escaped, of the Amalekites,—and dwelt there—[as they have] unto this day.