Moreover, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying:
Son of man, set thy face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
and say to it, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against thee, and I will make thee an utter desolation;
I will lay thy cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou shalt know that I am Jehovah.
Because thou bearest a perpetual hatred, and deliverest up the sons of Israel to the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time when iniquity bringeth destruction:
therefore, as I live, saith the Lord Jehovah, surely, to blood will I bring thee, and blood shall pursue thee; since thou hast not hated blood, blood shall pursue thee.
Thus will I make Mount Seir an utter desolation, and cut off from it him that passeth out, and him that returneth.
And I will fill his valleys with the slain. Upon thy hills and in thy plains and in thy valleys shall fall they that are slain with the sword.
I will make thee a perpetual desolation, and thy cities shall not be inhabited; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
Because thou hast said, "These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we shall possess them," whereas Jehovah was there;
therefore, as I live, saith the Lord Jehovah, I will do according to thine anger and according to thine envy which in thy hatred against them thou hast practised, and I will make myself known to them when I judge thee.
And thou shalt know that I am Jehovah, and that I have heard all thy blasphemies which thou hast spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying: "They are laid desolate; to us are they given to be devoured."
Thus with your mouth have ye magnified yourselves against me, and multiplied your words against me; I have heard them.
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: When the whole land rejoiceth, I will prepare desolation for thee.
As thou didst rejoice over my inheritance, the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so will I do to thee! Mount Seir shall be desolate, and all Edom, even all of it; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.