And king David was old, going on in days. And they covered him with clothes, but he got no heat.
And his servants said to him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin. And let her stand before the king, and let her nurse him, and let her lie in your bosom, so that my lord the king may get heat.
And they sought out a beautiful girl throughout all the borders of Israel, and found Abishag, a Shunammite. And they brought her to the king.
And the girl was very beautiful. And she nursed the king and served him. But the king did not know her.
And Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared himself chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
And his father had not displeased him at any time, saying, Why have you done so? And he also was very good of form, and his mother bore him after Absalom.
And he talked with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest. And they helped Adonijah, following him.
But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and David's mighty men, were not with Adonijah.
And Adonijah killed sheep and oxen and fat cattle by the Stone of Serpents, which is by En-rogel, and called all his brothers, the king's sons, and all the men of Judah, the king's servants.
But he did not call Nathan the prophet and Benaiah and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother.
And Nathan spoke to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, saying, Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith reigns, and David our lord does not know?
And now come, please let me give you counsel, and save your own life and the life of your son Solomon.
Go up and go in to king David, and say to him, My lord, O king, did you not swear to your handmaid, saying, Surely your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? Why then does Adonijah reign?
Behold, while you are still talking with the king, I also will come in after you and confirm your words.
And Bathsheba went in to the king into the room. And the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite served the king.
And Bathsheba bowed and knelt before the king. And the king said, What shall I do for you?
And she said to him, My lord, you swore by the LORD your God to your handmaid, saying, Surely your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.
And now, behold, Adonijah reigns. And now, my lord, you do not know.
And he has slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance, and has called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the commander of the army. But he has not called your servant Solomon.
And you, my lord, O king, the eyes of all Israel are upon you, that you should tell them who shall sit upon the throne of my lord the king after him.
And it will be, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, my son Solomon and I shall be offenders.
And lo, she was still talking with the king, and Nathan the prophet came in.
And they told the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And he came in before the king, and bowed before the king with his face to the ground.
And Nathan said, My lord, O king, have you said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
For he has gone down this day, and has killed a great many of oxen and fat cattle and sheep, and has called all the king's sons and the commanders of the army, and Abiathar the priest. And behold, they eat and drink before him, and say, Let king Adonijah live.
But he has not called me, your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and your servant Solomon.
Is this thing done by my lord the king, and have you not shown your servant who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?
And David answered and said, Call Bathsheba. And she came into the king's presence, and stood before the king.
And the king swore, and said, As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all distress,
surely as I swore to you by the LORD God of Israel, saying, Surely Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne in my place, even so I will do today.
And Bathsheba bowed her face to the earth, even kneeling to the king, and said, Let my lord king David live forever.
And king David said, Call Zadok the priest to me, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king.
The king also said to them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon.
And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him king over Israel there. And blow with the ram's horn, and say, Let king Solomon live.
And you shall come up after him, and let him come and sit upon my throne. For he shall reign in my place. And I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, and said, amen. May the LORD God of my lord the king say so.
As the LORD has been with my lord the king, even so may He be with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord king David.
And Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down and caused Solomon to ride upon king David's mule, and brought him to Gihon.
And Zadok the priest took a horn of oil out of the Tabernacle and anointed Solomon. And they blew the ram's horn, and all the people said, Let king Solomon live!
And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth was torn with their sound.
And Adonijah heard, and all the invited guests with him. And they stopped eating. And Joab heard the sound of the ram's horn, and said, What is this noise roaring from the city?
And he was still speaking, and behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came. And Adonijah said to him, Come in, for you are a mighty man and you bring good news.
And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Truly our lord king David has made Solomon king.
And the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule.
And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon. And they have come up from there rejoicing, so that the city is roaring. This is the noise that you heard.
And also Solomon sits on the throne of the kingdom.
And also the king's servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, May God make the name of Solomon better than your name, and make his throne greater than your throne. And the king bowed himself upon the bed.
And also the king said, Blessed is the LORD God of Israel, who has given one to sit on my throne today, my eyes even seeing it.
And all those who were invited by Adonijah trembled and arose and left, each to his way.
And Adonijah feared because of Solomon, and arose and went and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
And it was told to Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah fears king Solomon. For, lo, he has caught hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let king Solomon swear to me today that he will not kill his servant with the sword.
And Solomon said, If he becomes a son of virtue, not a hair of his head shall fall to the earth. But if wickedness shall be found in him, then he shall die.
And king Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and bowed himself to king Solomon. And Solomon said to him, Go to your house.