The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Hear, O heavens, and listen, O earth! For Jehovah has spoken: I have nursed and brought up sons, but they have rebelled against Me.
The ox knows his owner, and the ass his master's manger, but Israel does not know; My people have not understood.
Woe, sinful nation, a people heavy with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, sons who corrupt! They have forsaken Jehovah; they have scorned the Holy One of Israel. They are estranged backward.
Why will you be stricken any more? Will you continue the revolt? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart is faint.
From the sole of the foot even to the head, no soundness is in it; only a wound and a stripe and a fresh blow; they have not been closed, nor bound up; nor was it softened with oil.
Your land is a desolation; your cities burned with fire. Foreigners devour your land before you; and behold , ruin, as overthrown by foreigners.
And the daughter of Zion is left a booth in a vineyard, like a hut in a cucumber field, like a besieged city.
Except Jehovah of hosts had left a remnant for us, a few, we would be as Sodom; we would be as Gomorrah.
Hear the word of Jehovah, rulers of Sodom. Listen to the law of our God, people of Gomorrah.
What good to Me are your many sacrifices, says Jehovah? I am full of burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fattened cattle, and the blood of bulls; nor do I delight in the blood of lambs and he goats.
When you come to see My face, who has required this at your hand, to trample My courts?
Do not add to bringing vain sacrifice; its incense is an abomination to Me. I cannot endure the new moon and sabbath, the going to meeting, and the evil assembly.
My soul hates your new moons and your appointed feasts. They are a burden to Me. I am weary of bearing them .
And when you spread out your hands, I will hide My eyes from you. Yea, when you multiply prayer, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood.
Wash yourselves, purify yourselves. Put away the evil of your doings from My sight; stop doing evil.
Learn to do good, seek justice, reprove the oppressor, judge the orphan, strive for the widow.
Come now and let us reason together, says Jehovah: Though your sins are as scarlet, they shall be white as snow; though they are red as the crimson, they shall be like wool.
If you are willing and hear, you shall eat the good of the land.
But if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured with the sword; for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.
Oh how the faithful city has become a harlot! She was full of justice; righteousness lodged in it. But now, murderers!
Your silver has become dross; your wine is diluted with water.
Your princes are rebellious and companions of thieves. Everyone loves a bribe, and is pursuing rewards. They do not judge the orphan, nor does the cause of the widow come to them,
and says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, the mighty One of Israel, Alas! I will be eased of My foes, and avenge Myself of My enemies.
And I will return My hand on you, and refine your dross, as with lye, and take away all your alloy.
And I will return your judges as at the first; and your advisors, as at the beginning; then you shall be called the city of righteousness, a faithful town.
Zion shall be redeemed with justice, and her returning ones with righteousness.
And the ruin of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together. And those who forsake Jehovah shall be consumed.
For they shall be ashamed of the trees which you lusted after; and you shall be ashamed of the gardens that you have chosen.
For you shall be like a tree whose leaf fades, and like a garden that has no water in it.
And the strong shall be for tow, and his work for a spark; and they shall burn both together; and no one shall quench them .