And the word of Yahweh of hosts came, saying:
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, I am jealous for Zion with a great jealousy,—Yea, with great wrath, am I jealous for her.
Thus, saith Yahweh, I have returned unto Zion, and will make my habitation in the midst of Jerusalem,—and Jerusalem, shall be called, The city of fidelity, and the mountain of Yahweh of hosts, The mountain of holiness.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, Yet shall old men and old women sit in the broadways of Jerusalem,—Yea, each one with his staff in his hand for multitude of days:
And, the broadways of the city, shall be full of boys and girls,—playing in the broadways thereof.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, Because it will be marvellous in the eyes of the remnant of this people, in those days, In mine own eyes also, shall it be marvellous? Demandeth Yahweh of hosts.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, Behold me! saving my people out of the land of the dawn,—and out of the land of the going in of the sun;
And I will bring them in, and they shall have their habitation in the midst of Jerusalem,—and shall become my people, and, I, will become their God, In faithfulness and in righteousness.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, Let your hands be strong, ye who are hearing, in these days, these words,—from the mouth of the prophets who, on the day the house of Yahweh of hosts, was founded, [foretold] that, the temple, should be built:—
That, before those days, hire for man, could not be obtained, and, hire for beast, was there none,—and, neither to him who went out nor to him who came in, was there success by reason of the danger, Yea I let all men loose, each one against his neighbour.
But, now, not as in the former days, am I to this remnant of the people,—Declareth Yahweh of hosts;
For, the seed, shall be secure—the vine, shall yield her fruit, and the land, yield her increase, and the heavens, yield their dew,—and I will cause this remnant of the people to inherit all these things.
And it shall come to pass that—Just as ye had become a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, So, will I save you, and ye shall become a blessing,—Do not fear, let your hands, be strong.
For, thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, Just as I planned to bring calamity upon you, when your fathers provoked me, saith Yahweh of hosts,—and I relented not,
So, have I again planned, in these days, to do good unto Jerusalem, and unto the house of Judah,—Do not fear!
These, are the things which ye shall do: Speak ye the truth, every man with his neighbour, truth and the sentence of peace, pronounce ye in your gates;
And let, no man, devise, the injury of his neighbour, in your heart, and the oath of falsehood, do not love,—for, all these, are things which I hate, declareth Yahweh.
And the word of Yahweh of hosts came unto me, saying:
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts—The fast of the fourth, and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the eleventh, shall become to the house of Judah a gladness and a rejoicing, and pleasant appointed meetings,—But, truth and peace, see that ye love.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hoses,—It shall yet be that there shall come in peoples, and the inhabitants of many cities;
And the inhabitants of one city, shall go, unto them of another, saying, Let us be going on to pacify the face of Yahweh, and to seek Yahweh of hosts,—I also, will go!
So shall enter many peoples, and strong nations, to seek Yahweh of hosts in Jerusalem,—and to pacify the face of Yahweh.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, In those days, [it shall be] that ten men out of all the tongues of the nations, shall take hold,—yea take hold of the skirt of every one that is a Jew, saying—We will go with you! For we have heard [that], God, is with you.