And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man Set thy face against the sons of Ammon,— and prophesy against them.
So then thou shalt say to the sons of Ammon, Hear ye the word of My Lord Yahweh: Thus, saith My Lord. Yahweh: Because thou saidst Aha! Against my sanctuary when it was profaned. And against the soil of Israel when it was laid waste, And against the house of Judah when they went into exile.
Therefore, behold me! delivering thee up to the Sons of the East for a possession And they shall set their encampments in thee, And place in thee their habitations, They, shall eat thy fruits, And they, shall drink thy milk;
And I will make of Rabbah a home for camels, And the sons of Ammon a couching-place for flocks, So shall ye know that, I, am Yahweh.
For, thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Because thou didst clap thy hands and stamp with thy foot,—and didst rejoice with all thy contempt in thy soul, against the soil of Israel.
Therefore behold me! I have stretched out my hand over thee And will deliver thee for a prey to the nations, And will cut thee off from among the peoples, And will cause thee to perish from among the lands,— I will destroy thee, So shalt thou know that, I, am Yahweh.
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh: Because Moab and Seir say, Lo! like all the nations, is the house of Judah.
Therefore, behold me! laying open the side of Moab out of the cities, Out of his cities on his frontiers, The beauty of the land of Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim:
To the Sons of the East [when they come] against the sons of Ammon, and I will deliver it up for possession,-to the end the sons of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations:
Also upon Moab, will I execute judgments,- So shall they know that I, am Yahweh.
Thus, saith My Lord. Yahweh, Because of what Edom hath done, in taking vengeance on the house of Judah, so that they have become guilty again and again and have taken vengeance upon them,
Therefore, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, I will therefore stretch forth my hand over Edom, and will cut off therefrom man and beast, And will deliver it up as a desolation, from Teman, And they of Dedan, by the sword, shall fall,
And I will put forth mine avenging against Edom, by the hand of my people Israel, And they shall deal with Edom, according to mine anger and according to mine indignation,- So shall they know mine avenging, Declareth My Lord. Yahweh,
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, Because of what the Philistines have done by way of vengeance,- In that they have taken vengeance with contempt in the soul, to destroy, with the enmity of age-past times.
Therefore, Thus, saith My Lord. Yahweh, Behold me! stretching forth my hand over the Philistines, And I will cut off the Cherethim,— And will cause to perish the remnant of the coast of the sea;
And I will execute upon them great vengeance, with rebukes of indignation: shall they know that I am Yahweh, when I put forth mine avenging against them.