After that, fourteen years later, I, again, went up unto Jerusalem, with Barnabas, taking with me Titus also;
And I went up by revelation, and laid before them the glad-message which I proclaim among the nations; privately, however, to them of repute,—lest, by any means, in vain, I should be running, or had run.
But, not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised;—
But, [this was] because of the false brethren secretly introduced,—who, indeed, came in secretly to spy out our freedom, which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage:—
Unto whom, not even for an hour, gave we place by the [required] submission,—in order that, the truth of the glad-message, might still abide with you.
Moreover, from them who were reputed to be something,—whatsoever at one time, they were, maketh no difference to me, God accepteth not a man’s person,—unto me, in fact, they who were of repute added nothing further;
But, on the contrary,—when they saw that I had been entrusted with the glad-message to the uncircumcision, even as, Peter, [with that] to the circumcision,
For, he that energised in Peter, into an apostleship to the circumcision, energised also in me, for the nations,—
And when they perceived the favour which had been given unto me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave, the right hand of fellowship, unto me and Barnabas, in order that, we, [should go] unto the nations, and, they, unto the circumcision:—
Only that we should remember, the destitute,—as to which I had given diligence, this very thing, to do.
But, when Cephas came unto Antioch, to the face, [even], him, I resisted, because he stood condemned;
For, before that certain came from James, with them of the nations, used he to eat; whereas, when they came, he used to withdraw, and keep himself separate, fearing them of the circumcision;
And the rest of the Jews [also] used hypocrisy with him, so that, even Barnabas, was carried away by their hypocrisy.
But, when I saw that they were not walking with straightforwardness as regardeth the truth of the glad-message, I said unto Cephas, before all: If, thou, although, a Jew, like them of the nations, and not like the Jews, dost live, how dost thou compel, them of the nations, to live like Jews?
We, by nature Jews, and not sinners from among the nations,
Knowing, however, that a man is not declared righteous by works of law, [nor at all] save through faith in Christ Jesus; even we, on Christ Jesus, believed, that we might be declared righteous—by faith in Christ, and not by works of law; because, by works of law, shall no flesh be declared righteous.
Now, if in seeking to be declared righteous in Christ we, ourselves also, were found sinners,—is Christ, therefore, a minister, of sin? Far be it!
For, if, the things that I pulled down, these, again, I build, a transgressor, I prove, myself, to be.
For, I, through means of law, unto law, died, that, unto God, I might live:—
With Christ, have I been crucified; and, living no longer, am, I, but, living in me, is, Christ,—while, so far as I now do live in flesh, by faith, I live—The faith in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself up in my behalf.
I do not set aside the favour of God; for, if, through law, is righteousness, then, Christ, without cause, died.