And Zophar the Naamathite answered and said,
Therefore my thoughts cause me to answer, even because of my haste in me.
I have heard the rebuke meant to shame me, and the spirit of my understanding causes me to answer.
Do you know this from days of old, from the setting of man on earth,
that the exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the ungodly is for a moment?
Though his honor mounts up to the heavens, and his head reaches to the clouds,
he shall perish forever like his dung; they who see him shall say, Where is he?
He flies away like a dream, and shall not be found, and shall be chased away like a vision of the night.
An eye glimpsed him, but will not again; yea, his place shall not see him again.
His sons shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall restore his wealth.
His bones are full of his youthful vigor, but it lies down with him in the dust.
Though wickedness is sweet in his mouth, though he hides it under his tongue;
though he spares it and will not leave it; yea, keeps it still in his mouth;
yet his food in his belly shall be turned; the gall of asps is within him.
He swallows riches, but vomits it; God shall cast them out of his belly.
He shall suck the poison of asps; the viper's tongue shall slay him.
He shall not see the rivers, the flowings of the brooks of honey and butter,
giving back his gain, and he will not eat. As to the wealth of his trading, even he shall not enjoy it.
For he pressed down and forsook the poor; he stole a house, but he had not built it.
Surely he shall not know quietness in his belly; he will not escape with the things of desire.
None of his food shall be left; therefore his good will not last.
In the fullness of his plenty he shall be in trouble; every wretched one shall come on him.
It shall happen at the filling of his belly, God shall cast the fury of His wrath on him, and He shall rain on him while he is eating.
He shall flee from the iron weapon, a bow of bronze shall pierce him.
One draws it, and treads it from behind, even lightning from his gall; terror is on him.
All darkness shall be hidden in his secret places; a fire not blown shall consume him; those left in his tent shall be broken.
The heavens shall reveal his iniquity, and the earth rise up against him.
The increase of his house shall depart, and shall flow away in the day of his wrath.
This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the inheritance of his word from God.