And the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the nations also received the Word of God.
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision contended with him,
saying, You went in to uncircumcised men and ate with them.
But beginning, Peter set out to them in order, saying,
I was being in the city of Joppa, praying. And in an ecstasy, I saw a vision: a certain vessel was coming down, like a huge sheet, being let down by four corners out of the heaven; and it came as far as me.
Looking intently on this , I observed. And I saw the four-footed animals of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the creeping things, and the birds of the heaven.
And I heard a voice saying to me, Peter, rise up, slay and eat.
But I said, Not at all, Lord, because never has anything common or unclean entered into my mouth.
But a voice answered me the second time out of the heaven, What God has cleansed, you do not make common.
And this took place three times , and all things were pulled up into the heaven again.
And, behold, at once three men stood at the house in which I was, having been sent from Caesarea to me.
And the Spirit said to me to go with them, not discriminating. And these six brothers also were with me, and we went into the man's house.
And he told us how he saw an angel in his house, standing and saying to him, Send men to Joppa, and send for Simon who is surnamed Peter,
who will speak words to you by which you and all your household will be saved.
And in my beginning to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, as also on us in the beginning.
And I recalled the Word of the Lord, how He said, John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit.
Then if God gave the same gift to them as also to us, believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, and I, who was I to be able to prevent God?
And hearing these things, they kept silent and glorified God, saying, Then God also has granted to the nations repentance unto life.
Then, indeed, they who were scattered by the oppression taking place over Stephen passed through to Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the Word to no one except only to Jews.
But some men from them, Cypriots and Cyrenians, who had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, announcing the gospel of the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believing, they turned to the Lord.
And the Word was heard in the ears of the church in Jerusalem concerning them. And they sent out Barnabas to go through as far as Antioch;
who having come, and seeing the grace of God, rejoiced. And he exhorted all with purpose of heart to abide near the Lord.
For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a considerable crowd was added to the Lord.
And Barnabas went out to Tarsus to seek Saul.
And finding him, he brought him to Antioch. And it happened that many of them were gathered to them in the church a whole year. And they taught a considerable crowd. And the disciples were first called Christians at Antioch.
And in these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And one of them named Agabus rising up, he signified through the Spirit that a great famine was about to be over all the habitable earth, which also happened on Claudius Caesar's time .
And according as any was prospered, the disciples, each of them, determined to send for ministry to those brothers living in Judea,
which they also did, sending to the elders through the hand of Barnabas and Saul.