Do not boast thyself of to-morrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.
Let another praise thee, and not thine own mouth, a stranger, and not thine own lips.
Heavy is a stone, and weighty is sand,—but, the vexation of a fool, is heavier than both.
The cruelty of rage, and the overflow of anger! But who can stand before, jealousy?
Better is a rebuke that is open, than love carefully concealed.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but lavished are the kisses of an enemy.
The surfeited soul, trampleth upon droppings from the comb, but, to the hungry soul, every bitter thing, is sweet.
As a bird wandering from her nest, so, is a man wandering from his place.
Oil and perfume, rejoice the heart, the sweetness of one’s friend, more than fragrant wood.
Thine own friend and thy father’s friend, do not thou forsake; but, the house of thy brother, do not enter, in thy day of calamity, Better a neighbour near, than a brother far off.
Be wise, my son, and rejoice my heart, that I may answer him that reproacheth me in a matter.
A prudent man, seeth calamity—he hideth himself, the simple, pass on—they suffer.
Take a man’s garment when he hath become pledge for a stranger, then, for a female unknown, accept him as surety.
He that blesseth his friend, with a loud voice, in the morning early, a reproach, shall it be reckoned to him.
A continuous dripping on a day of downpour, and a contentious wife, are alike:
He that hideth her, hideth the wind, and, perfume, his right hand may proclaim.
Let, iron, by iron, become sharp, and let, a man, sharpen the face of his friend.
He that guardeth the fig-tree, shall eat the fruit thereof, and, he that watcheth over his master, shall be honoured.
As in water, face [answereth] to face, so, the heart of man to man.
Hades and destruction, are not satisfied, and, the eyes of a man, are not satisfied.
Fining pot for silver, and crucible for gold, and, a man, [is to be tried] by what he praiseth.
Though thou pound a fool in a mortar, amidst grain, with a pestle, his folly, will not depart from him.
Note well, the appearance of thy flock, apply thy mind to thy herds;
For, not age-abiding, are riches, nor is the diadem, from generation to generation:—
The grass, is taken away, and the young shoot, showeth itself, and the herbage of the mountains, is gathered;
There are, lambs, for thy clothing, and, for the price of thy field, there are he-goats;
With, enough goats-milk, for thy food—for the food of thy household, and, a maintenance, for thy maidens.