And the divisions of the sons of Aaron were: The sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no sons. And Eleazar and Ithamar were priests.
And David distributed them according to their offices in their service, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar.
And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar. And so they were divided. Among the sons of Eleazar were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers, and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the house of their fathers.
So they divided them by lot, one sort with another. For the governors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.
And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, of the Levites, wrote them before the king, and the rulers, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites. One principal household was taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.
Now the first lot came out to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Aphses,
the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel,
the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
These were their orderings in their service to come into the house of the LORD, according to their manner, to Aaron their father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.
And the rest of the sons of Levi: Of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
Concerning Rehabiah, of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was Isshiah.
Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath.
And the sons of Hebron: Jeriah, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
Of the sons of Uzziel, Michah. Of the sons of Michah, Shamir.
The brother of Michah was Isshiah. Of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Jaaziah, Beno.
The sons of Merari by Jaaziah: Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.
Of Mahli was Eleazar, who had no sons.
Of Kish, the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.
The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to the house of their fathers.
And they also cast lots along with their brothers, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, the head of the fathers, as well as his younger brother.