Because of this (having this ministry), in as much as we received mercy, we do not become discouraged.
But we have renounced the covert things of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor misrepresenting the word of God, but by the disclosure of the truth, commending ourselves to every conscience of men before God.
But even if our good news is concealed, it is concealed in those who are perishing,
in whom the god of this age has blinded the minds of the unbelieving, in order for the light of the good news of the glory of the Christ (who is a likeness of God) not to shine forth to them.
For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves are your bondmen through Jesus.
Because it is God who said, Out of darkness light is to shine, who shone in our hearts for an enlightenment of the knowledge of the glory of God in the presence of Jesus Christ.
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the excellence of the power may be of God and not from us,
restricted in everything, yet not confined, perplexed but not despairing,
persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed.
Always carrying around in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, so that also the life of Jesus may be made visible in our body.
For we who live are always given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that also the life of Jesus may be made visible in our mortal flesh.
So death indeed works in us, but life in you.
And having the same spirit of faith, according to that which is written, I believed, therefore I spoke, we also believe, and therefore we speak,
knowing that he who raised up the Lord Jesus will also raise us up through Jesus, and will present us with you.
For all things are for your sakes, so that the grace, which has multiplied because of the thankfulness of the many, may abound for the glory of God.
Therefore we are not discouraged, but even if the outer man of us is perishing, yet the inner man is renewed day by day.
For our slight momentary affliction works for us an eternal weight of glory from extraordinariness to extraordinariness,
while we look not at things seen, but at things not seen. For things seen are temporal, but things not seen are eternal.