The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
as it has been written in the Prophets, "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You;
the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Prepare the way of the Lord, make His paths straight." Mal. 3:1; Isa. 40:3
John came baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for remission of sins.
And all the Judean country and those of Jerusalem went out to him, and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins.
And John was clothed in camel's hair, and a leather girdle about his loin, and eating locusts and wild honey.
And he proclaimed, saying, He who comes after me is mightier than I, of whom I am not fit to stoop down to loosen the thong of His sandals.
I indeed baptized you in water, but He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.
And it happened in those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
And going up from the water, immediately He saw the heavens being torn, and the Spirit coming down as a dove upon Him.
And there was a voice out of the heavens, You are My Son, the Beloved, in whom I take delight. Psa. 2:7; Gen. 22:2; Isa. 42:1
And the Spirit at once drove Him out into the wilderness.
And He was there in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts. And the angels ministered to Him.
And after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom of God,
and saying, The time has been fulfilled, and the kingdom of God draws near. Repent and believe in the gospel.
And walking along beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and his brother Andrew casting a small net in the sea; for they were fishers.
And Jesus said to them, Come after Me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.
And leaving their nets, they immediately followed Him.
And going forward from there a little, He saw James the son of Zebedee, and his brother John. And they were in the boat mending the nets.
And at once He called them. And leaving their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, they went after Him.
And they passed along into Capernaum. And entering into the synagogue, at once He taught on the sabbaths.
And they were astonished at His doctrine, for He was teaching them as having authority, and not as the scribes.
And a man with an unclean spirit was in their synagogue. And he cried out,
saying, What is to us and to You, Jesus, Nazarene? Have You come to destroy us? I know You, who You are, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet, and come out of him.
And the unclean spirit convulsing him, and crying out with a loud voice, he came out of him.
And all were astonished, so as to discuss to themselves, saying, What is this? What new teaching is this, that He commands even the unclean spirits with authority, and they obey Him?
And His fame went out at once into all the Galilean neighborhood.
And at once going out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
And the mother-in-law of Simon was laid out, stricken by fever. And at once they spoke to Him about her.
And coming near, He raised her up, holding her hand. And the fever left her instantly, and she served them.
And evening coming, when the sun set, they brought to Him all those having illness and those having been demon-possessed.
And the whole city was gathered at the door.
And He healed many who had illness of various diseases. And he cast out many demons, and He did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew Him.
And rising up quite early in the night, He went out and went away into a deserted place. And He was praying there.
And Simon and those with him searched for Him.
And finding Him, they said to Him, All are seeking You.
And He said to them, Let us go into the neighboring towns, that I may proclaim there also. For it was for this I came forth.
And He was proclaiming in their synagogues in all Galilee, and casting out the demons.
And a leper came to Him, begging Him, and falling on his knees to Him, and saying to Him, If You will, You are able to make me clean.
And being moved with pity, reaching out the hand, Jesus touched him, and said to him, I am willing. Be made clean!
And He having spoken, instantly the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean.
And strictly warning him, He at once put him out,
and said to him, See, tell no one a thing, but go show yourself to the priest, and offer what Moses directed concerning your cleansing, for a testimony to them.
But going out he began to proclaim much, and to spread about the matter, so that He no longer could openly enter into a city. But He was outside in deserted places. And they came to Him from every quarter.