In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia, a thing was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar. And the thing was true, and a great conflict. And he understood the thing and had understanding of the vision.
In those days, I, Daniel, was mourning three weeks of days.
I ate no food for delight, and no flesh or wine came into my mouth. I did not anoint myself at all until three weeks of days were fulfilled.
And in the twenty fourth day of the first month, as I was by the hand of the great river, which is Tigris,
then I lifted up my eyes and looked: And behold! A certain man was clothed in linen, whose loins were wrapped in fine gold from Uphaz.
His body was also like the beryl, and his face looked like lightning. And his eyes were like torches of fire; and his arms and his feet in color like polished bronze; and the sound of his words were as the noise of a multitude.
And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision. For the men who were with me did not see the vision. But a great trembling fell on them so that they fled to hide themselves.
Then I was left alone, and I saw his great vision, and there remained no strength in me. For my glory was turned within me into corruption, and I kept no strength.
Yet I heard the sound of his words. And when I heard the sound of his words, then I was on my face, stunned, and my face was toward the ground.
And, behold, a hand touched me and set me shaking on my knees and the palms of my hands.
And he said to me, O Daniel, a man greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak to you and stand up. For I am now sent to you. And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood, trembling.
And he said to me, Do not fear, Daniel. For from the first day that you set your heart to understand and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. And I have come because of your words.
But the king of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty one days. But, lo, Michael, one of the first rulers, came to help me. And I stayed there with the kings of Persia.
Now I have come to make you understand what shall happen to your people in the latter days. For the vision is yet for many days.
And when he had spoken such words to me, I set my face to the ground, and I became speechless.
And, behold, one in form as the sons of men touched my lips. And I opened my mouth and spoke and said to him who stood before me, O lord, my pangs have come over me because of the vision, and I have no strength left.
For how can the servant of my lord speak this with this my lord? For as for me, there is no power left in me; yea, there is no breath left in me.
And again one in form as a man touched me and made me strong.
And he said, O man greatly beloved, do not fear. Peace to you. Be strong. Yea, be strong! And when he had spoken to me I was made strong. And I said, Speak, my lord, for you have made me strong.
And he said, Do you know why I have come to you? And now I will return to fight with the ruler of Persia. And when I have gone out, then, lo, the ruler of Greece shall come.
But I will tell you what is written in the Scripture of Truth. And no one makes himself strong with Me in these things except Michael your ruler.