Praise ye Yah, Give ye thanks to Yahweh—For he is good, For age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Who can relate the mighty deeds of Yahweh? can cause to be heard, all his praise?
How happy! They who observe justice, He that executeth righteousness at all times.
Remember me, O Yahweh, when thou acceptest thy people, Visit me, with thy salvation;
That I may look upon the welfare of thy chosen ones, That I may rejoice in the joy of thy nation, That I may glory, with thine inheritance.
We have sinned—with our fathers, We have acted perversely, we have committed lawlessness;
Our fathers, in Egypt, understood not thy wonders, They remembered not the abounding of thy lovingkindnesses, but rebelled by the sea—at the Red Sea.
Yet he saved them, for the sake of his Name, to make known his mighty power;
So he rebuked the Red Sea, and it dried up, And he led them through deeps, as pasture-land;
And saved them from the hand of one full of hatred, And redeemed them out of the hand of the foe;
So the waters covered their adversaries, Not one from among them, was left.
They believed therefore in his words, They sang his praise.
Soon forgat they his works,—They waited not for his counsel;
But lusted a lust in the desert, and tested GOD in the waste.
So he gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul.
And they became jealous of Moses in the camp,—of Aaron the holy one of Yahweh;
The earth opened and engulfed Dathan, and covered up the assembly of Abiram;
Then was kindled a fire in their assembly,—a flame, consumed the lawless ones.
They made a calf in Horeb,—and bowed down to a molten image;
Thus changed they my glory, for the similitude of an ox that eateth grass.
They forgat GOD their saviour, who had done great things in Egypt:
Wonders in the land of Ham, Terrible things by the Red Sea.
Then would he have bidden to destroy them,—had not Moses his chosen, stood in the breach before him, To turn back his wrath from destroying.
And they refused the delightful land, They believed not his word;
But murmured in their tents,—They hearkened not unto the voice of Yahweh.
So he lifted up his hand unto them, that he would let them fall in the desert;
And would disperse their seed among the nations, and would scatter them throughout the lands.
Yet they let themselves be bound to Baal-peor,—and did eat sacrifices to the dead:
So they provoked to anger by their doings, and a plague, made a breach among them.
Then stood up Phinehas, and interposed, and stayed was the plague:
So it was counted unto him, for righteousness, To generation after generation, unto times age abiding.
And they provoked by the waters of Meribah,—And it fared ill with Moses, for their sakes;
For they embittered his spirit, and he spake rashly with his lips.
They destroyed not the peoples of which Yahweh had spoken to them;
But had fellowship with the nations, and learned their doings;
Yea they served their idols, and they became to them a snare:
Yea they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to mischievous demons;
And poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, And the land was polluted with blood-shed;
And they became unclean by their works, and became unchaste in their doings.
Then was kindled the anger of Yahweh with his people, and he abhorred his own inheritance.
So he delivered them up into the hand of the nations, And they who hated them, had dominion over them;
And their enemies oppressed them, And they were bowed down under their hand.
Many times, did he rescue them,—But, they, rebelled by their counsel, and sank low in their iniquity.
Then looked he on the distress which befell them,—when he heard their loud cry;
Then remembered he, for them, his covenant, and was moved to pity, according to the abounding of his lovingkindnesses;
And granted them compassion before all their captors.
Save us, O Yahweh our God, and gather us from among the nations, That we may give thanks unto thy holy Name, That we may triumph aloud in thy praise.
Blessed be Yahweh, God of Israel, from one age even unto another, And all the people, shall say, Amen! Praise ye Yah!