NOW as it was determined that we should sail for Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of the Augustan cohort.
And embarking in a ship of Adrymittium, ready to sail for the coast of Asia, we proceeded on our voyage, Aristarchus a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
And the next day we arrived at Sidon: and Julius treated Paul with the greatest humanity, and permitted him to go to his friends, to enjoy the benefit of their care.
And taking our departure from thence, we sailed under Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.
And traversing the sea opposite to Cilicia and Pamphylia, we arrived at Myra, a city of Lycia.
And the centurion finding there a ship of Alexandria bound for Italy, he put us on board of it.
Then for many days making very slow way, and scarce reaching over against Knidos, the wind not favouring us, we coasted Crete, opposite Cape Salmone:
and weathering it with difficulty, we came to a certain place called, The fair havens; near to which is the city Lasea.
And much time being consumed, and sailing now becoming dangerous, because the fast was already past, Paul admonished them,
saying unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be attended with much damage and loss, not only of the cargo and of the ship, but danger of our lives also.
But the centurion paid more attention to the master and to the pilot than to the things which were spoken by Paul.
And the harbour not being well situated for a winter station, the greater part advised to sail from thence, if they possibly could reach as far as Phenice to pass the winter, a harbour open to the south-west and north-west.
So when the south wind blew softly, supposing they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor, and kept near the coast of Crete.
But not long after a hurricane wind, called Euroclydon, drove us towards the island,
and the ship becoming ungovernable, and unable to bear up in the eye of the wind, we gave up the attempt, and let her drive.
And running under a little island called Clauda, it was with difficulty we were able to come at the boat:
which when they had hoisted out, they used all helps, carrying ropes round the ship’s bottom; and fearing lest they should run on the quick-sands, they lowered the mast, and so were driven.
And being exceedingly tossed with the storm, we the next day threw out the cargo.
And the third day with our own hands we threw overboard the tackling of the vessel.
So when neither sun nor stars had appeared for many days, and no small tempest beating on us, all hope of our being preserved was entirely taken from us.
Now after being a long while without food, then stood up Paul in the midst of them, and said, Ye ought, my friends, to have been persuaded by me, and not have sailed from Crete, and got this loss and damage.
Yet even now I exhort you to be of good courage: for there shall be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
For there stood by me this night an angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve,
saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must stand before Caesar: and behold! God hath graciously given thee all who are sailing with thee.
Wherefore, sirs, cheer up: for I believe God that it will be so, exactly as he hath spoken to me.
But we must be cast on a certain island.
Now as the fourteenth night was passing, whilst we were driving about in the Adriatic sea, about midnight the sailors imagined that some land was near to them:
and sounding, had twenty fathoms; then passing on a little farther, and sounding again, they had fifteen fathoms.
And fearing lest they might run on some rocky coast, they cast out four anchors astern, and wished eagerly for the day to break.
Now as the sailors were seeking to escape out of the ship, and had hoisted out the boat into the sea, under pretence as if they were going to carry out anchors a-head,
Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these men abide in the ship, ye cannot be preserved.
Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let her fall off.
And while they waited until the day should break, Paul exhorted them all to take some nourishment, saying, To day, expecting the fourteenth day, ye are continuing without food, taking nothing.
Wherefore I exhort you to take some food, for this is for your preservation: for a hair shall not fall from the head of any one of you.
And so saying, and taking a loaf, he gave thanks to God before them all, and breaking it, began to eat.
Then were they all cheered up, and they too took refreshment.
Now all the souls which were in the ship amounted to two hundred seventy-six:
and having made a hearty meal, they lightened the vessel, throwing the wheat into the sea.
And when the day broke, they knew not the land: but they observed a certain creek with a beach, into which they resolved, if they could, to run the vessel aground.
And weighing the anchors, they committed her to the sea, and loosing at the same time the chains of the rudders, and hoisting the foresail to the breeze, they made for the beach.
But falling on a shoal where two currents met, they ran the ship aground; and the forecastle stuck fast, and remained immoveable, but the stern was stove in by the violence of the waves.
Then the soldiers’ design was to have murdered the prisoners, lest any of them should swim ashore and escape.
But the centurion, desirous to preserve Paul, withheld them from their purpose, and commanded those who were able to swim to jump overboard first, and reach the land:
and that the rest should make the attempt, some on planks, and some on the floating materials of the ship: and in this manner so it was that they all safely reached the shore.