Having, therefore, been declared righteous by faith, let us have, peace, towards God, through our Lord Jesus Christ,—
Through whom also we have had, our introduction, [by our faith] into this favour wherein we stand; and let us boast in hope of the glory of God.
And, not only so, but let us boast also in our tribulations; knowing that, our tribulation, worketh out endurance.
And, our endurance, a testing, and, our testing, hope,
And, our hope, putteth not to shame. Because, the love of God, hath been poured out in our hearts, through the Holy Spirit that hath been given unto us:
Seeing that, Christ, we being weak as yet, seasonably, in behalf of such as were ungodly, died.
For, scarcely in behalf of a righteous man, will one die,—in behalf of the good man indeed, peradventure one even dareth to die;
But God commendeth his own love unto us in that—we as yet being sinners, Christ in our behalf died.
Much more, then, having now been declared righteous by his blood, shall we be saved through him from the anger.
For, if being enemies we were reconciled unto God through the death of his Son, much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
And, not only, so, but are even boasting in God, through our Lord Jesus [Christ],—through whom, now, the reconciliation we have received.
For this cause,—just as, through one man, sin into the world entered, and through sin, death,—and, so, unto all men death passed through, for that all had sinned;—
For, until law, sin was in the world, although sin is not reckoned when there is no law,—
Yet still, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over them who had not sinned after the likeness of the transgression of Adam,—who is a type of the Coming One;—
But, not as the fault, so, [also] the decree of favour, for, if, by the fault of the one, the many died, much more, the favour of God and the free-gift in favour, by the one man Jesus Christ, unto the many superabounded;
And, not as through one that sinned, is that which is freely given, for, the sentence of judgment, indeed, was—out of one [fault] into condemnation, whereas, the decree of favour, is—out of many faults, into a recovery of righteousness.
For, if, by the fault of the one, death reigned through the one, much more, they who the superabundance of the favour and of [the free-gift of] the righteousness do receive, in life, shall reign through the one, Jesus Christ.
Hence then, as through one fault, [the sentence was] unto all men unto condemnation, so, also, through one recovery of righteousness, [the decree of favour] is unto all men for righteous acquittal unto life;
For, just as, through the disobedience of the one man, sinners, the many were constituted, so, also, through the obedience of the one, righteous, the many shall be constituted—
Law, however, gained admission, in order that the fault might abound, but, where the sin abounded, the favour greatly superabounded:
In order that—just as sin reigned in death, so, also, favour, might reign through righteousness unto life age-abiding, through Jesus Christ our Lord.