In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God.
All things were made through him; and without him was nothing made that hath been made.
In him is life; and the life was the light of men.
And the light hath been shining in the darkness; and the darkness received it not.
There was a man, sent from God, whose name was John.
He came as a witness, to bear witness of the light, that through him all might believe.
He was not the light, but came to bear witness of the light.
The true light, which enlighteneth every man, was coming into the world.
He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world knew him not.
He came to his own, and his own received him not.
But as many as received him, to them he gave power to become children of God,—to those who believed in his name;
who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth; and we beheld his glory, a glory as of an only begotten of a father.
John beareth witness of him, and crieth, saying, This was he of whom I said, He that cometh after me hath gone before me; for he was before me.
For out of his fullness have we all received, and grace upon grace.
For the Law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
No one hath ever seen God; the only begotten God, who is in the bosom of the Father, he hath made him known.
And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem, to ask him, Who art thou?
And he declared, and did not deny; and he declared, I am not the Christ.
And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elijah? And he said, I am not. Art thou the prophet? And he answered, No.
They said therefore to him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to those who sent us; what sayest thou of thyself?
He said, I am "a voice of one crying aloud in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord," as said Isaiah the prophet.
And they were sent from the Pharisees;
and they asked him and said to him, Why then dost thou baptize, if thou art not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?
John answered them, saying, I baptize in water. There standeth one among you whom ye know not,
he who cometh after me, the latchet of whose sandal I am not worthy to loose.
These things took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day he seeth Jesus coming to him, and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sin of the world!
This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man, who hath gone before me; for he was before me.
And I knew him not; but that he might be made manifest to Israel, therefore I came baptizing in water.
And John bore witness, saying, I have seen the Spirit descending as a dove from heaven, and it abode upon him.
And I knew him not; but he who sent me to baptize in water, the same said to me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and abiding on him, he it is that baptizeth in the Holy Spirit.
And I have seen and have borne witness, that this is the Son of God.
On the morrow John was again standing, and two of his disciples;
and looking upon Jesus as he was walking, he saith, Behold, the Lamb of God!
The two disciples heard him speaking, and they followed Jesus.
Jesus turning and seeing them following, saith to them, What seek ye? And they said to him, Rabbi, (that is to say, when interpreted, Teacher,) where dost thou dwell?
He saith to them, Come, and ye shall see. They came therefore and saw where he dwelt; and they abode with him that day. It was about the tenth hour.
One of the two who heard what John said, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith to him, We have found the Messiah; (which is, when interpreted, the Christ.)
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looking upon him said, Thou art Simon, the son of John; thou shalt be called Cephas; (which signifieth Peter, that is, Rock.)
On the morrow he determined to go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip. And Jesus saith to him, Follow me.
Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith to him, We have found him of whom Moses in the Law, and the Prophets wrote, Jesus, the son of Joseph, who is of Nazareth.
And Nathanael said to him, Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith to him, Come and see.
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile.
Nathanael saith to him, Whence dost thou know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig-tree, I saw thee.
Nathanael answered him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God, thou art the king of Israel.
Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to thee, I saw thee under the fig-tree, dost thou believe? Thou shalt see greater things than these.
And he saith to him, Truly, truly do I say to you, Ye will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.