And two days after was the passover, and the feast of unleavened bread; and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might seize him by craft, and put him to death.
For they said, Not at the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people.
And when he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he was reclining at table, there came a woman having an alabaster bottle of ointment of pure spikenard, very precious; and breaking the bottle, she poured it on his head.
And there were some that were much displeased, [and said] among themselves, Why is this waste of the ointment made?
For this ointment might have been sold for more than three hundred denaries, and given to the poor. And they chid her harshly.
But Jesus said, Let her alone; why do ye trouble her? A good deed hath she done for me.
For the poor ye have always with you, and whenever ye will, ye can do good to them; but me ye have not always.
She hath done what she could; she hath anointed my body beforehand for its burial.
And truly do I say to you, Wherever the glad tidings shall be published throughout the whole world, this too which she hath done will be told for a memorial of her.
And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priests, that he might deliver him up to them.
And they when they heard it were glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought a good opportunity to deliver him up.
And on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, when they used to kill the passover, his disciples say to him, Where wilt thou that we go and make ready for thee to eat the passover?
And he sendeth forth two of his disciples, and saith to them, Go into the city, and there will meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water; follow him;
and wherever he goeth in, say to the master of the house, The Teacher saith, Where is my guest-chamber, where I may eat the passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room furnished and prepared; and there make ready for us.
And the disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found as he had told them; and they made ready the passover.
And when it was evening, he cometh with the twelve.
And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly do I say to you, that one of you will betray me,—one that is eating with me.
They began to be sorrowful, and to say to him one by one, Is it I?
And he said to them, It is one of the twelve, one that is dipping with me in the dish.
For the Son of man indeed goeth away, as it hath been written concerning him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! Well were it for that man if he had not been born.
And as they were eating, he took a loaf, and blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them, and said, Take; this is my body.
And he took a cup, and having given thanks, gave it to them; and they all drank of it.
And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is shed for many.
Truly do I say to you, I shall not drink hereafter of the fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And having sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
And Jesus saith to them, Ye will all fall away from me; for it is written, "I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered."
But after I have risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
But Peter said to him, Even if all shall fall away, yet will not I.
And Jesus saith to him, Truly do I say to thee, that even thou, to-day, on this night, before a cock crow twice, wilt thrice deny me.
But he spoke the more vehemently: If I must die with thee, I will not deny thee. And so also said they all.
And they come to a place called Gethsemane; and he saith to his disciples, Sit here, while I pray.
And he taketh with him Peter and James and John; and began to be in great consternation and anguish.
And he saith to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death; remain here and watch.
And going on a little farther, he fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it was possible, the hour might pass from him.
And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible to thee! take away this cup from me. But not what I will, but what thou wilt.
And he cometh and findeth them sleeping; and he saith to Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? Couldst not thou watch one hour?
Watch, and pray that ye enter not into temptation; the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words.
And returning, he found them again sleeping, for their eyes were heavy; and they knew not what to answer him.
And he cometh the third time, and saith to them, Sleep on, and take your rest! It is enough! the hour is come: lo! the Son of man is delivered up into the hands of sinners.
Rise, let us be going; lo! he that delivereth me up is at hand.
And immediately, while he was yet speaking, cometh Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, and with him a multitude with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and elders.
And his betrayer had given them a signal, saying, Whomever I shall kiss, he is the man; seize him, and lead him away securely.
And on coming he immediately went up to him, and said, Rabbi! and kissed him.
And they laid hands on him and seized him.
And one of those who stood by drew his sword, and smote the servant of the high-priest, and cut off his ear.
And Jesus answering said to them, Ye have come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs, to take me.
I was daily with you in the temple, teaching, and ye did not lay hands on me; but [thus it is], that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.
And all forsook him and fled.
And there followed him a certain young man having a linen cloth wrapped round his naked body; and they laid hold of him.
And he left the linen cloth behind, and fled naked.
And they led Jesus away to the high-priest; and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes come together.
And Peter followed him afar off, even into the court of the palace of the high-priest, and was sitting with the officers, and warming himself at the fire.
And the chief priests and the whole council sought for testimony against Jesus in order to put him to death; and they found none.
For many bore false witness against him, but their testimonies did not agree together.
And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying,
We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made with hands.
And not even so did their testimony agree.
And the high-priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Dost thou make no answer to what these men testify against thee?
But he was silent, and answered nothing. Again the high-priest asked him, and saith to him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
And Jesus said, I am; and ye will see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven.
Then the high-priest rent his garments, and said, What further need have we of witnesses?
Ye have heard the blasphemy; what think ye? And they all condemned him as deserving the punishment of death.
And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face and buffet him, and say to him, Prophesy! And the officers, with blows, took him in charge.
And as Peter was below in the court, there cometh one of the maid-servants of the high-priest;
and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, Thou too wast with the Nazarene, Jesus.
But he denied, saying, I do not know nor understand what thou sayest. And he went out into the fore-court; and a cock crew.
And the maid-servant, seeing him, began again to say to those who were standing by, This is one of them.
And he denied it again. And shortly after, those who were standing by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them; for thou art a Galilaean.
But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak.
And immediately a cock crew a second time. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus had said to him, Before a cock crows twice, thou wilt thrice deny me. And when he thought thereon, he wept.