WHEREFORE, desisting from initiatory discourse respecting Christ, let us advance towards perfection; not again laying a foundation of repentance from dead works, and faith in God,
of the doctrine of ablutions, and of imposition of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And so we will do, if God permit.
For it is not possible to renew again unto repentance those who have been once illuminated, and have tasted the celestial gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Ghost,
and have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
and yet have fallen away: for they crucify again to themselves the Son of God, and expose him to public infamy.
For the earth which imbibes the rain which often falls upon it, and bringeth forth herbage suitable for those by whom it is cultured, receiveth a blessing from God;
but if it produceth thorns and thistles, it is abandoned, and near the curse of barrenness, whose end will be for burning.
But, beloved, we are persuaded concerning you that things are better, and connected with salvation, though we thus speak.
For God is not unjust, to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have demonstrated in his name, having ministered assistance to the saints, and still ministering.
But we earnestly desire that every one of you do manifest the same diligence, in order to obtain the full assurance of hope unto the end:
that ye be not slothful, but imitators of those who, by faith and long suffering, are inheriting the promises.
For God when he gave the promise to Abraham forasmuch as he had nothing greater to swear by, sware by himself,
saying, “Verily, blessing, I will bless thee, and multiplying, I will multiply thee.”
And so after long patient waiting he obtained the promise.
For men indeed swear by something greater than themselves; and an oath for confirmation is with them conclusive in all disputes.
And thus God, designing more abundantly to demonstrate to the heirs of promise the immutability of his will, pledged himself by oath,
that by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us;
which, as an anchor for our soul, we hold both sure and stedfast, and entering into the sanctuary within the vail,
into which the forerunner for us is entered, even Jesus, made after the order of Melchisedec an high-priest for ever.