And it happened in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first of the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, take up a lament over Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and say to him, You were like a young lion of the nations, and you were like the monster in the seas. And you gushed in your rivers and stirred up the waters with your feet and fouled their rivers.
So says the Lord Jehovah: So I will spread out My net over you with an assembly of many peoples, and they will lift you up in My net.
Then I will leave you on the land; I will hurl you on the face of the field and will make all the birds of the heavens to dwell on you, And I will fill the beasts of all the earth from you.
And I will put your flesh on the mountains and fill the valleys with your height.
And I will also make the land drink your discharge of your blood, to the mountains, and the ravines shall be full of you.
And I will cover the heavens when I quench you, and I will darken their stars. I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give its light.
I will darken all the shining lights in the heavens over you and will give darkness on your land, declares the Lord Jehovah.
I will also vex the heart of many peoples when I bring your breaking among the nations, to the lands which you have not known.
And I will make many people appalled at you, and their kings will be horribly afraid at you, when I make My sword fly before their faces. And they shall quake at every moment, each man for his own life, in the day of your fall.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: The sword of the king of Babylon shall come on you.
By the swords of the mighty I will make your host fall, by the fearful of the nations, all of them. And they shall spoil the pride of Egypt, and all its host shall be destroyed.
I will also destroy all her beasts from on the great waters, and the foot of man shall not stir them any longer, and the hoofs of beasts shall not stir them up.
Then I will make their waters sink and cause their rivers to run as oil, says the Lord Jehovah.
When I shall make the land of Egypt a ruin, and the land shall be stripped of its fullness when I shall strike all those who dwell in it; then they shall know that I am Jehovah.
This is the lament, and they shall lament her; the daughters of the nations shall lament her. Over Egypt and over all her multitude, they shall lament her, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And it happened in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth of the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, wail over the host of Egypt, and bring it down, her and the daughters of the majestic nations, to the earth's lowest parts, with those going down to the Pit.
Than whom are you more lovely? Go down and be laid with the uncircumcised.
They shall fall in the midst of the slain of the sword. She is given to the sword, they draw her and all her multitudes.
The strong of the mighty shall speak to him from the midst of Sheol, they went with his helpers; they, the uncircumcised, lie slain by the sword.
There is Assyria and all her assembly. All around him are his graves, all of them are slain, fallen by the sword;
of whom are given her graves in the recesses of the Pit, and her assembly is all around her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, because they gave terror in the land of the living.
There is Elam and all her multitude around her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who went down uncircumcised into the earth's lowest parts, who gave their terror in the land of the living. Yet they bore their shame with those going down to the Pit.
In the midst of the slain they have put a bed for her, with all her multitude. Her graves are all around him, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword. Though their terror was given in the land of the living, yet they have borne their shame with those going down to the Pit; he is put among the slain.
There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude. All around him are her graves, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, though they gave their terror in the land of the living.
And they shall not lie with the mighty of the uncircumcised who are fallen, who have gone down to Sheol with their weapons of war. And they have put their swords under their heads, but their iniquities shall be on their bones, though the terror of the mighty was in the land of the living.
And you shall be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised and shall lie with the slain by the sword.
There is Edom, her kings, and all her rulers, who are placed in their might with the slain of the sword. They shall lie with the uncircumcised, and with those going down to the Pit.
These are the rulers of the north, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who have gone down with the slain in their terror. They are ashamed of their might. And they lie uncircumcised with those slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those going down to the Pit.
Pharaoh shall see them and be cheered over all his multitude, those slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all the army, declares the Lord Jehovah.
For I had put his terror in the land of the living, but he will be laid among the uncircumcised, with those slain by sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares Jehovah.