PAUL an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy a brother, to the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints which are in all Achaia:
grace unto you, and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and God of all consolation;
who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we might be able to comfort those who are in all tribulation, by the consolation with which we ourselves are comforted of God.
Because as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so through Christ aboundeth also our consolation.
But whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectually wrought by patient endurance of the same sufferings which we also suffer; or if we are comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation.
And our hope of you is sure, knowing that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so also of the consolation.
For we would not have you ignorant, brethren, of the tribulation which came to us in Asia, that above measure we have been burdened beyond our strength, so that we despaired even of life:
for we ourselves, in ourselves have received the sentence of death, that we should have no confidence in ourselves, but in God who raiseth the dead.
Who from so imminent a prospect of death hath delivered us, and still delivers: in whom we trust also that he will yet deliver us:
ye also labouring together for us in prayer, that from many persons thanks may be given on our behalf for the gifts bestowed on us by many.
For our glorying is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with carnal wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world, and peculiarly towards you.
For we write no other things to you than those which you know and acknowledge; and I trust also ye will acknowledge them even to the end.
As also ye have acknowledged us in part, that we are your glory, as also ye are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus.
And in this confidence I was intending to come unto you a second time, that ye might receive a second blessing;
and through you to pass into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia return unto you, and by you to be forwarded on my journey towards Judea.
Such then being my intention, did I indeed change it with levity? or the things which I purpose, do I purpose after the flesh, that with me there should be yea, yea, and nay, nay?
But as sure as God is true, our word to you was not yea and nay.
For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us―by me and Silvanus and Timotheus―was not yea and nay, but there was yea in him;
for all the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen, to the glory of God by us.
Now he that confirmeth us with you in Christ, and hath anointed us, is God;
who also hath put his seal upon us, and given us the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
But I appeal to God as a witness unto my soul, that to spare you I have not yet come to Corinth:
not that we have dominion over your faith, but are fellow-helpers of your joy; for by faith ye stand.