Then Jesus was led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterwards he was hungry.
And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou art the Son of God, command that these stones be made [into] bread.
But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.
Then the devil took him up into the holy city and set him on a pinnacle of the temple
and said unto him, If thou art the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in [their] hands they shall bear thee up lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
Again, the devil took him up into an exceeding high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them
and said unto him, All these things I will give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me.
Then Jesus said unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
Then the devil left him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him.
Now when Jesus had heard that John was cast into prison, he returned to Galilee;
and leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zepulun and Naphtali,
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying,
The land of Zepulun, and the land of Naphtali, [by] the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles;
the people who sat in darkness saw great light, and to those who sat in the region and shadow of death, light is sprung up.
From that time Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens is at hand.
And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers.
And he said unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And they straightway left [their] nets and followed him.
And going on from there, he saw another two brothers, James [the son] of Zebedee and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them.
And they immediately left the ship and their father and followed him.
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every of sickness and every [bodily] weakness among the people.
And his fame went throughout all Syria; and they brought unto him all sick people that were taken with diverse diseases and torments and those who were possessed with devils and those who were lunatic and those that were paralyzed; and he healed them.
And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee, [from] Decapolis, [from] Jerusalem, [from] Judaea and [from] beyond Jordan.: