For the Leader; with string-music. Maschil of David.
Give ear, O G-d, to my prayer; and hide not Thyself from my supplication.
Attend unto me, and hear me; I am distraught in my complaint, and will moan;
Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked; for they cast mischief upon me, and in anger they persecute me.
My heart doth writhe within me; and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.
Fear and trembling come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me.
And I said: 'Oh that I had wings like a dove! then would I fly away, and be at rest.
Lo, then would I wander far off, I would lodge in the wilderness. Selah
I would haste me to a shelter from the stormy wind and tempest.'
Destroy, O L-rd, and divide their tongue; for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof; iniquity also and mischief are in the midst of it.
Wickedness is in the midst thereof; oppression and guile depart not from her broad place.
For it was not an enemy that taunted me, then I could have borne it; neither was it mine adversary that did magnify himself against me, then I would have hid myself from him.
But it was thou, a man mine equal, my companion, and my familiar friend;
We took sweet counsel together, in the house of G-d we walked with the throng.
May He incite death against them, let them go down alive into the nether-world; for evil is in their dwelling, and within them.
As for me, I will call upon G-d; and HaShem shall save me.
Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I complain, and moan; and He hath heard my voice.
He hath redeemed my soul in peace so that none came nigh me; for they were many that strove with me.
G-d shall hear, and humble them, even He that is enthroned of old, Selah, such as have no changes, and fear not G-d.
He hath put forth his hands against them that were at peace with him; he hath profaned his covenant.
Smoother than cream were the speeches of his mouth, but his heart was war; his words were softer than oil, yet were they keen-edged swords.
Cast thy burden upon HaShem, and He will sustain thee; He will never suffer the righteous to be moved.
But Thou, O G-d, wilt bring them down into the nethermost pit; men of blood and deceit shall not live out half their days; but as for me, I will trust in Thee.