Man, born of woman, living for a short time, is filled with many miseries.
He comes forth like a flower, and is crushed, and he flees, as if a shadow, and never remains in the same state.
And do you consider it fitting to look down with your eyes on someone in this way and to lead him into judgment with you?
Who can make him clean who is conceived of unclean seed? Are you not the only one who can?
The days of man are short, and the number of his months is with you; you have determined his limits, which cannot be surpassed.
Withdraw a little from him, so that he may rest, until his awaited day arrives, like that of the hired hand.
A tree has hope: if it has been cut, it turns green again, and its branches spring forth.
If its roots grow old in the earth, and its trunk passes into dust,
at the scent of water, it will sprout and bring forth leaves, as when it had first been planted.
Truly, when a man dies, and has been left unprotected, and has decayed, I ask you where is he?
It is as if the waters had receded from the sea and an emptied river had dried up;
just so, when a man is fallen asleep, he will not rise again, until the heavens are worn away; he will not awaken, nor rise from his sleep.
Who will grant this to me, that you will protect me in the underworld, and hide me until your fury passes by, and establish a time for me, in which you will remember me?
Do you suppose that a dead man will live again? On each of the days in which I now battle, I wait until my transformation occurs.
You will call me and I will answer you; to the work of your hands, you will extend your right hand.
Indeed, you have numbered my steps, but you have been lenient with my sins.
You have sealed up my offenses, as if in a purse, but you have cured my iniquity.
A falling mountain flows away, and a stone is transferred from its place.
Waters wear away stones, and with a flood the land is reduced little by little; and similarly, you will destroy man.
You have strengthened him for a little while, so that he may cross over into eternity. You will change his face and send him forth.
Whether his sons have been noble or ignoble, he will not understand.
And in this way his body, while he yet lives, will have grief, and his soul will mourn over himself.