And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel and thou shalt say unto them, As for the appointed seasons of Yahweh, which ye shall proclaim as holy convocations, these, are they—my appointed seasons:—
Six days, shall work be done, but, on the seventh day, shall there be a sabbath of sacred rest a holy convocation, no work, shall ye do,—a sabbath, shall it be unto Yahweh, in all your dwellings.
These, are the appointed seasons of Yahweh, holy convocations,—which ye shall proclaim in their appointed season:—
In the first month, on the fourteenth of the month, between the evenings, is a Passover unto Yahweh;
and on the fifteenth day of this month, is the festival of unleavened cakes unto Yahweh,—seven days—unleavened cakes, shall ye eat.
On the first day—a holy convocation, shall there be to you: no laborious work, shall ye do.
So then ye shall bring near an altar-flame unto Yahweh, seven days,—on the seventh day, [shall there be] a holy convocation, no laborious work, shall ye do.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them:—When ye enter into the land which, I, am giving you, and ye reap the harvest thereof, then shall ye bring in a sheaf of the first-ripe corn of your harvest, unto the priest;
and he shall wave the sheaf before Yahweh, that ye may be accepted,—on the morrow of the sabbath, shall the priest wave it.
And ye shall offer on the day when ye wave the sheaf, a he-lamb without defect, the finest of its year for an ascending-sacrifice unto Yahweh;
and the, meal-offering thereof shall be two-tenth parts of fine meal overflowed with oil, as an altar-flame unto Yahweh a satisfying odour,—and, the drink-offering thereof, [shall be] mine, the fourth of a hin.
And neither bread, nor roasted corn, nor garden-land grain, shall ye eat, until this selfsame day, until ye have brought in the oblation of your God,—an age-abiding statute unto your generations, in all your dwellings.
Then shall ye keep count to yourselves from the morrow of the sabbath, from the day ye brought in the wave sheaf,—seven sabbaths complete, shall there be:
until on the morrow of the seventh sabbath, ye count fifty days,—then shall ye bring near a new meal-offering unto Yahweh.
Out of your dwellings, shall ye bring in two wave loaves of two-tenths of an ephah, of fine meal, shall they be, with leaven, shall they be baked,—first-fruits unto Yahweh.
Then shall ye bring near with the bread seven he-lambs without defect of the first year, and one young bullock, and two rams,—they shall be an ascending-sacrifice unto Yahweh, with their meal-offering, and their drink-offerings, an altar-flame of satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
Then shall ye offer one he-goat, as a sin-bearer,—and two he-lambs, of the first year, as a peace-offering.
And the priest shall wave them, with the firstfruits’ bread, as a wave-offering before Yahweh, with the two he-lambs,—holy, shall they be unto Yahweh, for the priest.
And ye shall make proclamation on this self-same day—a holy convocation, shall it be unto you; no laborious work, shall ye do,—an age-abiding statute in all your dwellings, unto your generations.
And, when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly clear the border of thy field when thou reapest, and, the gleanings of thy field, shalt thou not glean,—for the poor and for the sojourner, shalt thou leave them. I—Yahweh, am your God.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, saying:—In the seventh month on the first of the month, shall there be unto you a sacred rest, a trumpet-blowing commemoration a holy convocation:
no laborious work, shall ye do,—but ye shall bring near an altar-flame unto Yahweh.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying,
Surely on the tenth of this seventh month, is, the Day of Propitiation, a holy convocation, shall it be to you, therefore shall ye humble your souls,—and bring near an altar-flame unto Yahweh.
And, no work, shall ye do, on this selfsame day,—for a day of propitiation, it is, to put a propitiatory-covering over you before Yahweh your God.
For, whosoever be the person that shall not be humbled on this selfsame day, then shall he be cut off from among his kinsfolk.
And, whosoever be the person that shall do any work on this selfsame day, then will I destroy that person from the midst of his people.
No work, shall ye do,—an age-abiding statute to your generations, in all your dwellings.
A sabbath of sacred rest, shall it be unto you, so shall ye humble your souls,—on the ninth of the month in the evening, from evening to evening, shall ye keep your sabbath.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, saying:—On the fifteenth day of this seventh month, shall be the festival of booths, for seven days, unto Yahweh.
On the first day, [shall be] a holy convocation,—no laborious work, shall ye do.
Seven days, shall ye bring near an altar-flame unto Yahweh: on the eighth day—a holy convocation, shall there be unto you so shall ye bring near an altar-flame unto Yahweh—the closing of the feast, it is, no laborious work, shall ye do.
These, are the appointed seasons of Yahweh, which ye shall proclaim, as holy convocations,—for bringing near as an altar-flame unto Yahweh, an ascending-sacrifice, and a meal-offering, a sacrifice and a drink-offering, each day’s appointment on its own day:—
besides the sabbaths of Yahweh, and besides your presents, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill offerings which ye shall give unto Yahweh.
Surely, on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the yield of the land, shall ye celebrate the festival of Yahweh seven days,—on the first day, a sacred rest, and, on the eighth day, a sacred rest.
So then ye shall take you, on the first day, boughs of goodly trees, branches, of palm-trees, and boughs of thick trees, and poplars of the ravine,—and shall rejoice before Yahweh your God, seven days.
So shall ye celebrate it as a festival unto Yahweh, seven days in the year,—a statute age-abiding, to your generations. In the seventh month, shall ye celebrate it;
In booths, shall ye dwell seven days;—All the home-born in Israel, shall dwell in booths:
To the end that your generations may know, that, in booths, made I the sons of Israel to dwell, when I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt,—I—Yahweh, am your God.
So then Moses declared, the appointed seasons of Yahweh, unto the sons of Israel.