And Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, took both Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, the sons of Reuben;
and they rose up before Moses, with certain of the sons of Israel, two hundred and fifty rulers of the congregation, elect men of the assembly, men of name.
And they were assembled against Moses and against Aaron, and said to them, You take too much! For all the congregation, all of them are holy, and Jehovah is among them. Why then do you lift up yourselves above the assembly of Jehovah?
And Moses heard and fell on his face.
And he spoke to Korah, and to all his company, saying, In the morning Jehovah will show who are His, and him who is holy, and shall cause him to come near Him; even him whom He may choose, He will cause to come near to Him.
Do this: take fire-pans for yourselves, Korah, and all his company,
and put fire in them, and put incense on them before Jehovah tomorrow; and it shall be, the man whom Jehovah chooses, he shall be the holy one. You take too much, sons of Levi!
And Moses said to Korah, Hear now, you sons of Levi,
is it but a small thing to you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel to bring you near to Himself, to do the service of the tabernacle of Jehovah, and to stand before the congregation to minister to them?
Yea, He has brought you near, and all your brothers, the sons of Levi, with you. And will you seek the priesthood also?
Therefore, you and all your company that have gathered against Jehovah, What is Aaron that you murmur against him?
And Moses sent to call for Dathan and for Abiram, the sons of Eliab; and they said, We will not come up.
Is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, but must you also certainly seize dominion over us?
Yea, you have not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance in fields and vineyards; will you put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up!
And Moses was very angry, and said to Jehovah, Do not respect their offering; I have not taken one ass from them, nor have I done evil to one of them.
And Moses said to Korah, You and all your company, you be there before Jehovah, you and they, and Aaron tomorrow.
And each one take his fire-pan, and you shall put incense on them, and shall offer before Jehovah, each his fire-pan, two hundred and fifty fire-pans; even you and Aaron, each his fire-pan.
And they each took his fire-pan, and put fire on them, and lay incense on them, and they stood at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, with Moses and Aaron.
And Korah assembled all the congregation against them, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the glory of Jehovah was seen by all the congregation.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
separate yourselves from the midst of this company, and I will consume them in a moment.
And they fell on their faces, and said, O God, God of the spirits of all flesh; shall one man sin, and will You be angry with all the congregation?
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the congregation, saying, You get away from around the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.
And Moses rose up and went to Dathan and Abiram, and the elders of Israel went after him.
And he spoke to the congregation, saying, Please turn away from the tents of these wicked men, and do not touch anything that they have, lest you be consumed in all their sins.
And they got away from around the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram; and Dathan and Abiram came out, standing at the door of their tents, and their wives, their sons, and their infants.
And Moses said, By this you shall know that Jehovah has sent me to do all these works, and that not from my own heart.
If these die according to the death of all men, and are visited according to the visitation of all men, then Jehovah has not sent me.
And if Jehovah makes a new thing, and the ground opens her mouth and swallows them, and all that they have, and they go down alive to Sheol, then you shall know that these men have despised Jehovah.
And it happened, as he made an end of speaking all these words, the ground which was under them split apart,
and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them, and their houses, and all the men who were for Korah, and all their possessions.
And they went down, they and all that they had, alive to Sheol, and the earth covered over them; and they perished from the midst of the assembly.
And all Israel who were around them fled at their cry; for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up.
And fire came forth from Jehovah and consumed the two hundred and fifty men that offered the incense.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the priest, and he shall lift up the fire-pans from the midst of the burning, and shall scatter the fire yonder, for they have become holy,
the fire-pans of these sinners against their own souls. And they shall make of them spreadout plates, a covering for the altar, for they have brought them near before Jehovah, and they are holy. And they shall become a sign to the sons of Israel.
And Eleazar the priest took the bronze fire-pans, which they who were burned had brought near, and they spread them out, a covering for the altar,
a memorial to the sons of Israel, so that an alien who is not of the seed of Aaron shall not draw near to offer incense before Jehovah, and shall not be as Korah, and as his company; as Jehovah had spoken by the hand of Moses to him.
And all the congregation of the sons of Israel murmured on the next day against Moses and against Aaron, saying, You have killed the people of Jehovah.
And it happened, as the company was called together against Moses and against Aaron, that they turned toward the tabernacle of the congregation. And, behold, the cloud had covered it, and the glory of Jehovah appeared!
And Moses and Aaron came to the front of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Get away from the midst of this company, and I shall consume them in a moment; and they fell on their faces.
And Moses said to Aaron, Take the fire-pan, and put fire on it from the altar, and lay on incense, and go, hurry to the congregation, and atone for them, for the wrath has gone out from the presence of Jehovah; the plague has begun.
And Aaron did as Moses had spoken, and ran into the midst of the assembly. And, behold, the plague had begun among the people! And he laid on the incense and atoned for the people,
and stood between the dead and the living, and the plague was stayed.
And those who died by the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, besides those who died for the matter of Korah.
And Aaron turned back to Moses, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation; and the plague was stayed.