STAND fast therefore in the liberty with which Christ has made you free, and be not again held under a yoke of bondage.
Behold, I Paul declare to you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ will be of no advantage to you.
And again, I testify to every man who is circumcised, that he is under an obligation to keep the whole law.
Ye have vacated all expectations from Christ, as many of you as are justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace.
For we in spirit by faith expect the hope of righteousness.
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but faith exerting its energy by love.
Ye were running well: who hath hindered you that ye should not obey the truth?
This persuasion cometh not from him who called you.
A little leaven leaveneth the whole mass.
I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be no otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear condign punishment whosoever he be.
But I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? then indeed the offence of the cross is at an end.
I wish that they who trouble you were cut off from you.
For ye have been called unto liberty, brethren; only use not that liberty as a pretext for carnality, but in love be subject one to another.
For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, even in this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed by one another.
But I say, Walk in the Spirit, and ye will not fulfil the lust of the flesh.
For the flesh hath appetites contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit contrary to the flesh, and these act in opposition the one to the other: so that ye do not the things which ye would.
But if ye are under the conduct of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.
Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are these: adultery, whoredom, impurity, lasciviousness,
idolatry, magical charms, enmities, strifes, jealousies, animosities, quarrels, divisions, heresies,
envyings, murders, drunkenness, revels, and the like of these, concerning which I tell you now, as I have told you already, that they who live in such practices shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, fidelity,
meekness, temperance; against such there is no law.
But they who are Christ’s have crucified the flesh with its passions and irregular appetites.
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Let us not be vain-glorious, irritating one another, envying one another.