The word which came to Jeremiah from the LORD, when king Zedekiah sent to him Pashur the son of Melchiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, saying,
Please inquire of the LORD for us. For Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon is warring against us. Perhaps the LORD will deal with us according to all His wonderful works, that he may go up from us.
Then Jeremiah said to them, You shall say this to Zedekiah,
So says the Jehovah, God of Israel: Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war in your hands, with which you fight against the king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans who besiege you outside the walls. And I will gather them together in the middle of this city.
And I Myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a strong arm, even in anger, and in fury, and in great wrath.
And I will strike the people of this city, both man and beast. They shall die of a great plague.
And afterward, says the LORD, I will deliver Zedekiah king of Judah, and his servants, and the people, and those who are left in this city from the plague, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life. And he shall strike them with the edge of the sword; he shall not spare them, nor have pity, nor have mercy.
And to this people you shall say, So says the LORD, Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death.
He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the plague. But he who goes out and falls to the Chaldeans who are all around you, he shall live, and his life shall be his prize.
For I have set My face against this city for evil, and not for good, says the LORD. It shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
And concerning the house of the king of Judah, say, Hear the word of the LORD.
O house of David, so says the LORD: Do judgment in the morning, and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor, lest My fury go out like fire, and burn so that none can put it out, because of the evil of your doings.
Behold, I am against you, O dweller of the valley, rock of the plain, says the LORD; those who say, Who shall come down against us? Or who shall enter into our homes?
But I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, says the LORD; and I will kindle a fire in the forest of it, and it shall devour all things around it.