Brethren, my heart’s desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they may be saved.
For I testify for them, that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge.
For being ignorant of God’s righteousness, and seeking to establish their own plan of justification, they have not submitted to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is the end of the law for justification, to every one that believes.
For Moses describes the justification which is by the law: That the man who does these things shall live by them.
But the justification by faith speaks thus: Say not in your heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? that is, to bring Christ down;
or, Who shall descend into the abyss? that is, to bring Christ again from the dead.
But what says it? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart; that is, the word of faith which we preach;
that if you will confess with your mouth, that Jesus is Lord, and will believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you shall be saved.
For with the heart we believe, in order to justification; and with the mouth we make confession, it order to salvation.
For the scripture says: He that believes on him shall not be ashamed.
For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek; for the same Lord of all is rich to all that call on him:
For every one that calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
How, then, shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher?
And how shall they preach, unless they be sent? As it is written: How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring joyous news of good things!
But they have not all obeyed the gospel; for Isaiah says: Lord, who has believed our report?
So, then, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
But I say: Have they not heard? Yes, verily; their voice has gone forth into all the earth: and their words to the ends of the world.
But I say: Did not Israel know? First, Moses says: I will excite you to jealousy by that which is no nation; and by a foolish nation I will provoke you to wrath.
But Isaiah is very bold, and says: I was found by them that sought me not: I was made manifest to them that asked not after me.
But with respect to Israel, he says: All day long have I stretched out my hands to a disobedient and contradicting people.