In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying,
"Jehovah was very displeased with your fathers.
Therefore tell them: Thus says Jehovah of hosts: 'Return to me,' says Jehovah of hosts, 'and I will return to you,' says Jehovah of hosts.
Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets proclaimed, saying: Thus says Jehovah of hosts, 'Return now from your evil ways, and from your evil doings;' but they did not hear, nor listen to me, says Jehovah.
Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?
But my words and my decrees, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did not they overtake your fathers? "Then they repented and said, 'Just as Jehovah of hosts determined to do to us, according to our ways, and according to our practices, so he has dealt with us.'"
On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying,
"I had a vision in the night, and behold, a man riding on a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees that were in a ravine; and behind him there were red, brown, and white horses.
Then I asked, 'My lord, what are these?'" The angel who talked with me said to me, "I will show you what these are."
The man who stood among the myrtle trees answered, "They are the ones Jehovah has sent to go back and forth through the earth."
They reported to the angel of Jehovah who stood among the myrtle trees, and said, "We have walked back and forth through the earth, and behold, all the earth is at rest and in peace."
Then the angel of Jehovah replied, "O Jehovah of hosts, how long will you not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which you have had indignation these seventy years?"
Jehovah answered the angel who talked with me with kind and comforting words.
So the angel who talked with me said to me, "Proclaim, saying, 'Thus says Jehovah of hosts: "I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy.
I am very angry with the nations that are at ease; for I was but only a little angry, but they added to the calamity."
Therefore thus says Jehovah: "I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy. My house shall be built in it," says Jehovah of hosts, "and a line shall be stretched forth over Jerusalem."'
"Proclaim further, saying, 'Thus says Jehovah of hosts: "My cities will again overflow with prosperity, and Jehovah will again comfort Zion, and will again choose Jerusalem."'"
I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and behold, four horns.
I asked the angel who talked with me, "What are these?" He answered me, "These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem."
Jehovah showed me four craftsmen.
Then I asked, "What are these coming to do?" He said, "These are the horns which scattered Judah, so that no man lifted up his head; but these have come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations, which lifted up their horn against the land of Judah to scatter it."