In you, O Lord, I take refuge; let me never be put to shame. Rescue me in your faithfulness;
incline to me your ear. Deliver me speedily. Be to me a rock of defence, a fortified house, to save me.
For my rock and my fortress are you; lead me and guide me so your name will be honoured.
Draw me out of the net they have hid for me, for you yourself are my refuge.
Into your hand I commend my spirit: you ransom me, Lord, faithful God.
I hate those devoted to worthless idols; I trust in the Lord.
I will rejoice and be glad in your love, because you have looked on my misery, and cared for me in my distress.
You have not given me into the enemy’s hand, you have set my feet in a spacious place.
Be gracious to me, Lord, for I am distressed; my eye is wasted away with sorrow.
For my life is consumed with grief, and my years with sighing. My strength is broken with misery, my bones waste away.
The scorn of all my foes, the butt of my neighbours am I, a terror to my acquaintance. At the sight of me in the street people turn quickly away.
I am clean forgotten like the dead, am become like a ruined vessel.
I hear the whispers of many --- terror on every side --- scheming together against me, plotting to take my life.
But my trust is in you, Lord. “You are my God,” I say;
my times are in your hand, save me from the hand of the foes who pursue me.
Make your face to shine on your servant, save me in your love.
Put me not, O Lord, to shame, for I have called upon you. Let the wicked be put to shame silent in Sheol.
Strike the false lips dumb, that speak proudly against the righteous with haughtiness and contempt.
How great is the goodness you have treasured for those who fear you, and wrought for those who take refuge in you, in plain sight of all!
In your sheltering wings you hide them from plottings of people, you keep them safe in a bower from the chiding of tongues.
Blest be the Lord for the wonderful love he has shown me in time of distress.
For I had said in panic, “I am driven clean out of your sight.” But you heard my plea, when I cried to you for help.
Love the Lord, all you faithful; the Lord protects the loyal, but repays the haughty in full.
Let your hearts be courageous and strong, all you who wait on the Lord.