And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples,
You know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.
Then assembled together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people, to the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas,
And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtlety, and kill him.
But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people.   ¶
Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
There came to him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at meat.
But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste?
For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor.
When Jesus understood it, he said to them, Why trouble you the woman? for she has worked a good work on me.
For you have the poor always with you; but me you have not always.
For in that she has poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial.
Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman has done, be told for a memorial of her.   ¶
Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests,
And said to them, What will you give me, and I will deliver him to you? And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver.
And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him.   ¶
Now the first day of the feast of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying to him, Where will you that we prepare for you to eat the passover?
And he says, Go into the city to such a man, and say to him, The Master said, My time is at hand; I will keep the passover at your house with my disciples.
And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and they made ready the passover.
Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve.
And as they did eat, he said, Truly I say to you, that one of you shall betray me.
And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say to him, Lord, is it I?
And he answered and said, He that dips his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me.
The Son of man goes as it is written of him: but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! it had been good for that man if he had not been born.
Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said to him, You have said.   ¶
And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body.
And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink you all of it;
For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins.
But I say to you, I will not drink from now on of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father’s kingdom.
And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.
Then says Jesus to them, All you shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad.
But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee.
Peter answered and said to him, Though all men shall be offended because of you, yet will I never be offended.
Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, That this night, before the cock crow, you shall deny me thrice.
Peter said to him, Though I should die with you, yet will I not deny you. Likewise also said all the disciples.   ¶
Then comes Jesus with them to a place called Gethsemane, and says to the disciples, Sit you here, while I go and pray yonder.
And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy.
Then says he to them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even to death: tarry you here, and watch with me.
And he went a little farther, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as you will.
And he comes to the disciples, and finds them asleep, and says to Peter, What, could you not watch with me one hour?
Watch and pray, that you enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
He went away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, your will be done.
And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy.
And he left them, and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words.
Then comes he to his disciples, and says to them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Rise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that does betray me.   ¶
And while he yet spoke, see, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and elders of the people.
Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he: hold him fast.
And immediately he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, master; and kissed him.
And Jesus said to him, Friend, why are you come? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus and took him.
And, behold, one of them which were with Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck a servant of the high priest’s, and smote off his ear.
Then said Jesus to him, Put up again your sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.
Think you that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?
But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be?
In that same hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are you come out as against a thief with swords and staves for to take me? I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and you laid no hold on me.
But all this was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him, and fled.   ¶
And they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled.
But Peter followed him afar off to the high priest’s palace, and went in, and sat with the servants, to see the end.
Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the council, sought false witness against Jesus, to put him to death;
But found none: yes, though many false witnesses came, yet found they none. At the last came two false witnesses,
And said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days.
And the high priest arose, and said to him, Answer you nothing? what is it which these witness against you?
But Jesus held his peace, And the high priest answered and said to him, I adjure you by the living God, that you tell us whether you be the Christ, the Son of God.
Jesus says to him, You have said: nevertheless I say to you, Hereafter shall you see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.
Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He has spoken blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? behold, now you have heard his blasphemy.
What think you? They answered and said, He is guilty of death.
Then did they spit in his face, and buffeted him; and others smote him with the palms of their hands,
Saying, Prophesy to us, you Christ, Who is he that smote you?   ¶
Now Peter sat without in the palace: and a damsel came to him, saying, You also were with Jesus of Galilee.
But he denied before them all, saying, I know not what you say.
And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him, and said to them that were there, This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth.
And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man.
And after a while came to him they that stood by, and said to Peter, Surely you also are one of them; for your speech denudes you.
Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew.
And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which said to him, Before the cock crow, you shall deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly.