Hear, ye sons, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding.
For I give you good doctrine. Forsake ye not my law.
For I was a son to my father, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother.
And he taught me, and said to me, Let thy heart retain my words. Keep my commandments, and live.
Get wisdom, get understanding. Do not forget, nor decline from the words of my mouth.
Do not forsake her, and she will preserve thee. Love her, and she will keep thee.
Wisdom is the principal thing. Get wisdom, yea, with all thy getting get understanding.
Exalt her, and she will promote thee. She will bring thee to honor when thou embrace her.
She will give to thy head a garland of grace, a crown of beauty she will deliver to thee.
Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of thy life shall be many.
I have taught thee in the way of wisdom. I have led thee in paths of uprightness.
When thou go, thy steps shall not be restricted. And if thou run, thou shall not stumble.
Take firm hold of instruction. Do not let her go. Keep her, for she is thy life.
Enter not into the path of the wicked, and walk not in the way of evil men.
Avoid it. Do not pass by it. Turn from it, and pass on.
For they do not sleep unless they do evil. And their sleep is taken away unless they cause to fall.
For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.
But the path of the righteous is as the dawning light, that shines more and more to the perfect day.
The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble.
My son, attend to my words. Incline thine ear to my sayings.
Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thy heart.
For they are life to those who find them, and health to all their flesh.
Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life.
Put away from thee a wayward mouth, and put perverse lips far from thee.
Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee.
Make the path of thy feet level, and let all thy ways be established.
Turn not to the right hand nor to the left. Remove thy foot from evil.