Then came near the ancestral heads of the Levites, unto Eleazar, the priest, and unto Joshua son of Nun,—and unto the ancestral heads of the tribes, of the sons of Israel;
and spake unto them in Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying: Yahweh himself, commanded, by the hand of Moses, that there should be given unto us cities to dwell in,—with their pasture-lands for our cattle.
So the sons of Israel gave unto the Levites, out of their own inheritance, at the bidding of Yahweh,—these cities, with their pasture-lands.
And, when the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites, then had the sons of Aaron the priest, from among the Levites—out of the tribe of Judah and out of the tribe of the Simeonites and out of the tribe of Benjamin—by lot, thirteen cities.
And, the sons of Kohath that remained, had—out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim and out of the tribe of Dan and out of the half tribe of Manasseh—by lot, ten cities.
And, the sons of Gershon, had—out of families of the tribe of Issachar and out of the tribe of Asher and out of the tribe of Naphtali and out of the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan—by lot, thirteen cities.
The sons of Merari, by their families, had—out of the tribe of Reuben and out of the tribe of Gad and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
So the sons of Israel gave unto the Levites these cities, with their pasture lands,—as Yahweh commanded, by the hand of Moses, by lot.
Thus then they gave—out of the tribe of the sons of Judah and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon—these cities which are mentioned by name.
And the sons of Aaron, from among the sons of Kohath, from among the sons of Levi, had them,—because, theirs, was the first lot;
yea there was given unto them, the city of Arba, the father of Anak, the same, is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah,—with the pasture land thereof, round about it;
whereas, the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, gave they unto Caleb son of Jephunneh, as his possession.
But, unto the sons of Aaron the priest, gave they the city of refuge for the manslayer, even Hebron, with the pasture lands thereof,—Libnah also, with her pasture lands;
and Jattir with her pasture land, and Eshtemoa with her pasture land;
and Holon, with her pasture land, and Debir, with her pasture land;
and Ain, with her pasture land, and Juttah, with her pasture land, Beth-shemesh, with her pasture land,—nine cities, out of these two tribes.
And, out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon, with her pasture land,—Geba, with her pasture land;
Anathoth, with her pasture land, and Almon, with her pasture land,—four cities.
All the cities of the sons of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities, with their pasture lands.
And, as for the families of the sons of Kohath, the Levites, which remained of the sons of Kohath, the cities of their lot were out of the tribe of Ephraim.
So they gave unto them a city of refuge for the manslayer, even Shechem with her pasture land, in the hill country of Ephraim,—also Gezer, with her pasture land;
and Kibzaim, with her pasture land, and Beth-horon, with her pasture land,—four cities.
And, out of the tribe of Dan, Elteke, with her pasture land,—Gibbethon, with her pasture land;
Aijalon, with her pasture land, Gath-rimmon, with her pasture land,—four cities.
And, out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Taanach, with her pasture land, and Gath-rimmon, with her pasture land,—two cities.
All the cities, were ten, with their pasture lands: for the families of the sons of Kohath which remained.
And, the sons of Gershon, of the families of the Levites, had, out of the half tribe of Manasseh, a city of refuge for the manslayer, even Golan in Bashan, with her pasture land, and Be-eshterah, with her pasture land,—two cities.
And, out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishion, with her pasture land,—Daberath, with her pasture land;
Jarmuth, with her pasture land, En-gannim, with her pasture land,—four cities.
And, out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal, with her pasture land, Abdon, with her pasture land;
Helkath, with her pasture land, and Rehob, with her pasture land,—four cities.
And, out of the tribe of Naphtali, a city of refuge for the manslayer—even Kedesh in Galilee, with her pasture land, and Hammoth-dor, with her pasture land, and Kartan, with her pasture land,—three cities.
All, the cities of the Gershonites, by their families, were thirteen cities, with their pasture lands.
And, unto the families of the sons of Merari, the Levites that remained, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam, with her pasture land,—Kartah, with her pasture land;
Dimnah, with her pasture land, Nahalal, with her pasture land,—four cities.
And, out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer, with her pasture land,—and Jahaz, with her pasture land;
Kedemoth, with her pasture land and Mephaath, with her pasture land,—four cities.
And, out of the tribe of Gad, a city of refuge for the manslayer—even Ramoth in Gilead, with her pasture land,—and Mahanaim, with her pasture land;
Heshbon, with her pasture land, Jazer, with her pasture land,—in all, four cities.
All the cities for the sons of Merari, by their families, who remained of the families of the Levites, yea their lot was, twelve, cities.
All the cities of the Levites, in the midst of the possession of the sons of Israel, were forty-eight cities, with their pasture lands:
these cities passed, each severally, with its pasture lands round about it; thus, was it with all these cities.
So Yahweh gave unto Israel, all the land which he had sworn to give unto their fathers,—and they took possession thereof, and dwelt therein.
And Yahweh gave them rest round about, according to all that he had sworn unto their fathers,—and there stood not a man before them, of all their enemies; all their enemies, did Yahweh deliver into their hand.
There failed not a thing, out of all the good things, whereof Yahweh had spoken unto the house of Israel,—the whole, came to pass.