Paul, a called apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, and Sosthenes the brother,
to the church of God which is in Corinth, those having been sanctified in Christ Jesus, called-out saints, with all those calling on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, both theirs and ours:
Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I give thanks to my God always concerning you for the grace of God given to you in Christ Jesus,
that in everything you were enriched in Him, in all discourse and all knowledge,
even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you,
so that you are not lacking in any gift, awaiting the revelation of our Lord, Jesus Christ,
who also will confirm you until the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord.
Now I exhort you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ that you all say the same thing, and there be no divisions among you, but you be united in the same mind and in the same judgment.
For concerning you, my brothers, it was shown to me by those of Chloe that there are strifes among you.
But I say this, that each of you says, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ.
Has Christ been divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul?
I give thanks to God that I did not baptize one of you, except Crispus and Gaius,
that not anyone should say that you were baptized in my name.
And I also baptized the house of Stephanas. For the rest, I do not know if I baptized any other.
For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to announce the gospel, not in wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ be made of no effect.
For the word of the cross is foolishness to those being lost, but to us being saved, it is the power of God.
For it has been written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and I will set aside the understanding of the understanding ones." Isa. 29:14
Where is the wise? Where the scribe? Where the lawyer of this world? Did God not make the wisdom of this world foolish?
For since in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom did not know God, God was pleased through the foolishness of preaching to save the ones believing.
And since Jews ask for a sign, and Greeks seek wisdom,
we on the other hand preach Christ crucified (truly an offense to Jews, and foolishness to Greeks),
but to the called-out ones, both to Jews and to Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God;
because the foolish thing of God is wiser than men, and the weak thing of God is stronger than men.
For you see your calling, brothers, that there are not many wise according to flesh, nor many powerful, not many wellborn.
But God chose the foolish things of the world that the wise might be put to shame, and God chose the weak things of the world so that He might put to shame the strong things.
And God chose the low-born of the world, and the despised, and the things that are not, so that He might bring to nothing the things that are,
so that no flesh might glory in His presence.
But of Him, you are in Christ Jesus, who was made to us wisdom from God, both righteousness and sanctification and redemption,
so that even as it has been written, "He that glories, let him glory in" the "Lord." Jer. 9:24