Therefore, my brothers, ones loved and longed for, my joy and crown, stand fast in this way in the Lord, beloved ones.
I beg Euodia and Syntyche that they be of the same mind in the Lord.
And I also beg you, true yoke-fellow, help those women who labored in the gospel with me and with Clement, and others of my fellow-laborers, whose names are in the Book of Life.
Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say, Rejoice!
Let your moderation be known to all men. The Lord is at hand.
Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.
And the peace of God which passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.
Finally, my brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honest, whatever things are right, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report; if there is any virtue and if there is any praise, think on these things.
Do those things which you have also learned and received and heard and seen in me. And the God of peace shall be with you.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me has flourished again. Although you indeed did think, but you lacked opportunity.
Not that I speak according to need, for I have learned to be content in whatever state I am.
I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound. In everything and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
Yet you did well in sharing my troubles.
Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as regards giving and receiving, except you alone.
For even in Thessalonica you sent once and again to my necessity.
I do not say this because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account.
But I have all, and abound. I have been filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things which you sent, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable and well-pleasing to God.
But my God shall supply all your need according to His riches in glory by Christ Jesus.
Now unto God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
All the saints greet you, most of all those who are of Caesar's household.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.