And Joseph could not restrain himself before all who were stationed near him, so he cried out—Have forth every man from me! And there stood no man with him, when Joseph made himself known unto his brethren,
Then gave he forth his voice in weeping,—and the Egyptians heard, and the house of Pharaoh heard.
Then said Joseph unto his brethren: I, am Joseph, is my father yet alive? But his brethren could not answer him, for they were terrified because of him.
Then said Joseph unto his brethren—Draw near I pray you, unto me. And they drew near. And he said—I, am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.
But, now, do not grieve, neither let it be vexing in your eyes, that ye sold me hither,—for, to save life, did God send me before you.
For these two years, hath the famine been in the midst of the land,—and, yet five years, are there, in which there shall be neither ploughing, nor harvest.
So then God sent me before you, to plant for you a remainder in the earth,—and to save you alive, by a great deliverance,
Now, therefore it was not ye, who sent me hither, but, God, himself,—who also appointed me to be a father to Pharaoh, and a lord to all his house, and a ruler over all the land of Egypt.
Haste ye and go up unto my father, then shall ye say unto him—Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath appointed me lord to all Egypt,—come down unto me do not delay;
so shalt thou dwell in the land of Goshen, and shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy sons, and thy sons’ sons,—and thy flocks and thy herds and all that is thine;
so will I sustain thee, there, for there are yet five years of famine,—lest thou come to poverty—thou and thy house and all who are thine.
Now lo! your own eyes do see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin,—that it is my own mouth, that doth speak unto you.
As soon as ye have told my father all my honour in Egypt, and all that ye have seen, so soon shall ye hasten and bring down my father hither.
Then fell he upon the neck of Benjamin his brother, and wept,—and Benjamin wept on his neck.
Then kissed he all his brethren, and wept upon them,—and, thereafter, his brethren spake with him.
Now, the report, was heard by the house of Pharaoh, saying, The brethren of Joseph have come in, And it was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants.
So then Pharaoh said unto Joseph—Say unto thy brethren This, do,—lade your asses, and go enter into the land of Canaan;
and fetch your father and your households and come in unto me,—that I may give you the best of the land of Egypt, and eat ye the fat of the land.
Thou, therefore command them, This, do ye,—Take you out of the land of Egypt, waggons for your little ones and for your wives, so shall ye bring your father and come in.
Your eye, moreover, let it not look with pity upon your goods,—for, the best of all the land of Egypt, is, yours.
And the sons of Israel did so, and Joseph gave them waggons, at the bidding of Pharaoh,—and gave them provisions for the way:
to all of them, gave he to each man changes of raiment,—but, to Benjamin, he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment.
Moreover, to his father, sent he as followeth—ten he-asses, laden from the best of Egypt,—and ten she-asses laden with corn and bread and nourishing food for his father for the way.
Thus sent he forth his brethren and they departed,—and he said unto them, Do not fall out by the way.
And they went up out of Egypt,—and came into the land of Canaan, unto Jacob their father.
And they told him saying—Joseph: is, yet alive, yea, indeed, he, is ruler in all the land of Egypt. And his heart became faint, for he believed them not.
So they spake unto him all the words of Joseph which he had spoken unto them h then saw he the waggons, which Joseph had sent to carry him,—and the spirit of Jacob their father revived.
And Israel said, Enough! Joseph my son is, yet alive, I must go and see him before I die!