And Jehovah said to Moses, Go in to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants, so that I may set these signs of Mine in their midst;
and so that you may recount in the ears of your son and the son of your son what I exerted Myself to do against Egypt, and My signs which I have done among them, and you may know that I am Jehovah.
And Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh and said to him, So says Jehovah the God of the Hebrews, Until when will you refuse to humble yourself before Me? Send away My people so that they may serve Me.
For if you refuse to send away My people, behold, I am going to bring locusts into your territory tomorrow.
And they will cover the eye of the land, and no one will be able to see the land. And they will eat the rest of that which escaped, that which is left to you from the hail. And they will eat every tree that sprouts to you from the field.
And your houses will be full, and the houses of all your servants, and the houses of the Egyptians, which neither your fathers nor the fathers of your fathers have seen; from the day of their being on the earth until this day. And he turned and went out from Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh's servants said to him, How long shall this one be a snare to us? Send away the men that they may serve Jehovah their God. Do you not yet know that Egypt is perishing?
And Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh. And he said to them, Go, serve Jehovah your God. Who and who are the ones going?
And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons and with our daughters. We will go with our flocks and with our herds. For it is a feast of Jehovah to us.
And he said to them, May Jehovah be so with you, as I send you away, and your little ones. Watch! For evil is before your face!
Not so! You and the men go now and serve Jehovah. For you were seeking it. And he drove them out from the face of Pharaoh.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand for the locusts over the land of Egypt, so that they may go up on the land of Egypt and may eat every plant of the land, all that the hail left.
And Moses stretched out his staff over the land of Egypt. And Jehovah brought an east wind on the land all that day and all that night. And at morning the east wind lifted up the locusts.
And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested on all the territory of Egypt, exceedingly many. Never were there locusts like them before, and afterward none will be like them.
And they covered the eye of the earth, and the land became dark. And they ate every plant of the land, and all the fruit of the trees that the hail had left. And no greenness was left in the trees and in the plants of the field in all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh hurried to call Moses and Aaron. And he said, I have sinned against Jehovah your God and against you.
And now pray forgive my sins only this time, and pray to Jehovah your God that He may take away from me this death only.
And he went out from Pharaoh, and he prayed to Jehovah.
And Jehovah changed to a west wind, very strong. And it carried the locusts and threw them into the Sea of Reeds. Not one locust was left in all the territory of Egypt.
And Jehovah hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not send away the sons of Israel.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand to the heavens so that darkness may be on the land of Egypt, and one may feel darkness.
And Moses stretched out his hand to the heavens, and darkness of gloom was in all the land of Egypt three days.
They did not see each one his brother, and they did not rise up, each one from his place for three days. Yet to all the sons of Israel there was light in their dwellings.
And Pharaoh called to Moses and said, Go, serve Jehovah. Only leave your flocks and your herds behind. Your little ones may go with you.
And Moses said, You must also give into our hands sacrifices and burnt offerings so that we may prepare for Jehovah our God.
And also our livestock shall go with us. Not a hoof shall be left. For we shall take from them to serve Jehovah our God. And we do not know with what we shall serve Jehovah until we come there.
And Jehovah hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he was not willing to send them away.
And Pharaoh said to him, Go away from me. Be careful for yourself. Do not see my face again, for in the day you see my face you shall die.
And Moses said, You have spoken rightly. I will not see your face again.