And I saw, when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying, as with a voice of thunder—Go!
And I saw, and lo! a white horse,—and he that was sitting thereon holding a bow; and there was given unto him a crown, and he went forth conquering, and that he might conquer.
And, when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature, saying—Go!
And there went forth another, a red horse,—and, unto him that was sitting thereon, it was given, [unto him], to take away peace from the earth, and that, one another, they should slay; and there was given unto him a great sword.
And, when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature, saying—Go! And I saw, and lo! a black horse, and he that was sitting thereon holding a pair of balances in his hand.
And I heard as a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying—A quart of wheat for, a denary, and three quarts of barley, for a denary,—and, the oil and the wine, do not wrong.
And, when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature, saying—Go!
And I saw, and lo! a livid horse,—and he that was sitting thereupon had for a name, Death, and, Hades, was following with him; and there was given unto them authority over the fourth of the earth, to slay with sword, and with famine, and with death, and by the wild beasts of the earth.
And, when he opened the fifth seal, I saw, beneath the altar, the souls of them who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the witness which they held.
And they cried out with a loud voice, saying—How long, O Sovereign, the Holy and True, dost thou not vindicate and avenge our blood from them that dwell upon the earth?
And there was given to them, each one, a white robe, and it was bidden them, that they should rest yet a little while—until the number should be made full of their fellow-servants also, and their brethren, who were about to be slain as even, they.
And I saw, when he opened the sixth seal, that a, great earthquake, took place; and, the sun, became black as sackcloth of hair, and, the full moon, became as blood,
and, the stars of heaven, fell to the earth, as, a fig-tree, sheddeth her winter figs, when, by a great wind, it is shaken,
and, the heaven, was withdrawn, as a scroll rolling itself up, and, every mountain and island, out of their places, were shaken.
And, the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rulers of thousands, and the rich, and the mighty, and every bondman and freeman, hid themselves within the caves and within the rocks of the mountains;
and they say, unto the mountains and unto the rocks—Fall upon us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth upon the throne, and from the anger of the Lamb;
Because the great day of their anger is come, and who is able to stand?