The poor who walks in his integrity is better than he who is perverse in his lips, who is a fool.
Also, without knowledge the soul is not good, and he who hurries with his feet sins.
The foolishness of man overturns his way, and his heart rages against Jehovah.
Wealth makes many friends, but the poor is separated from his neighbor.
A false witness shall not be acquitted; yea, a breather of lies shall not escape.
Many will beg the favor of a noble, and all are friends to him who give gifts.
All the poor man's brothers hate him, and his friends also surely leave him; he pursues them with words, yet they are not.
He who gets heart loves his own soul, he who keeps understanding finds good.
A false witness shall not be acquitted; yea, he who speaks lies shall perish.
Luxury is not becoming for a fool, much less for a servant to rule over princes.
A man's discretion makes his anger slow, and his glory is to pass over a transgression.
The king's wrath is like a lion's roar, but his favor is like dew on the grass.
A foolish son is calamity to his father, and a wife's quarreling a never ending dripping.
House and riches are the inheritance of fathers, but a prudent wife is from Jehovah.
Laziness makes one fall into a deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.
He who keeps the commandment keeps his own soul, he who despises His ways shall die.
He who has pity on the poor lends to Jehovah, and He will reward his dealing to him.
Chasten your son, for there is hope, and do not set your soul on making him die.
A man great of fury will have to pay the fine, for if you deliver him , then you must do it again.
Hear advice and receive instruction, that you may be wise in your latter end.
Many purposes are in a man's heart, but the counsel of Jehovah shall stand.
The desire of a man is his kindness, and a poor man is better than a liar.
The fear of Jehovah tends to life, and he shall rest satisfied, he shall not be visited with evil.
A lazy one puts his hand in a dish, and he will not return it to his mouth.
Strike a scorner and the simple will become careful; reprove a discerner, and he will discern knowledge.
He who assaults his father chases his mother away, he is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.
My son, cease to hear the discipline, and you will err from the words of knowledge.
A worthless witness scorns justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours evil.
Judgments are prepared for scorners, and blows for the backs of fools.