How the gold has become dim, the most pure gold changed! The stones of the sanctuary are poured out at the head of every street.
The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, how they are esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter!
Even the jackals draw out the breast; they give suck to their young ones. The daughter of my people has become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.
The tongue of the sucking child clings to the roof of his mouth for thirst. The young sons ask bread, and no man breaks it to them.
Those who fed luxuriously are desolate in the streets. Those who were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.
For the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the sin of Sodom, that was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands were laid upon her.
Her ranking men were purer than snow. They were whiter than milk. They were more ruddy in body than rubies. Their polishing was as of sapphire.
Their visage is blacker than a coal. They are not known in the streets. Their skin clings to their bones. It is withered. It has become like a stick.
Those who are slain with the sword are better than those who are slain with hunger, for these pine away, stricken through, for want of the fruits of the field.
The hands of the pitiful women have boiled their own children. They were their food in the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Jehovah has accomplished his wrath. He has poured out his fierce anger, and he has kindled a fire in Zion, which has devoured the foundations thereof.
The kings of the earth did not believe, nor all the inhabitants of the world, that the adversary and the enemy would enter into the gates of Jerusalem.
It is because of the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests, who have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her.
They wander as blind men in the streets. They are polluted with blood, so that men cannot touch their garments.
Depart ye, they cried to them. Unclean! Depart, depart, do not touch! When they fled away and wandered, men said among the nations, They shall no more sojourn here.
The anger of Jehovah has scattered them. He will no more regard them. They did not respect the persons of the priests. They did not favor the elders.
Our eyes do yet fail in looking for our vain help. In our watching we have watched for a nation that could not save.
They hunt our steps, so that we cannot go in our streets. Our end is near, our days are fulfilled, for our end has come.
Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the heavens. They chased us upon the mountains. They laid wait for us in the wilderness.
The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Jehovah, was taken in their pits, of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the nations.
Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, who dwells in the land of Uz. Yet the cup shall pass through to thee also. Thou shall be drunken, and shall make thyself naked.
The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion. He will no more carry thee away into captivity. He will visit thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom. He will uncover thy sins.