Him that is weak in the faith, receive kindly, but not to judge his reasonings.
One believes that he may eat all things; another, who is weak, eats herbs.
Let not him that eats, despise him that eats not; and let not him that eats not, judge him that eats: for God has received him.
Who are you that judge another man’s servant? To his own master he stands or falls; indeed, he shall stand, for God is able to make him stand.
One man thinks that one day is better than another; another thinks that every day is alike. Let each be fully assured in his own mind.
He that regards the day, to the Lord he regards it; and he that does not regard the day, to the Lord he does not regard it. He that eats, eats to the Lord; for he gives God thanks: and he that eats not, to the Lord he eats not, and gives God thanks.
For no one lives to himself, and no one dies to himself.
For if we live, we live to the Lord; or if we die, we die to the Lord. Whether, therefore, we live or die, we are the Lord’s.
For this very purpose, Christ both died and rose, and lived again, that he might have dominion over the dead and the living.
But why do you judge your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For we all shall stand before the judgment-seat of the Christ.
For it is written: As I live, says the Lord, to me every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess to God.
Therefore, every one of us shall give an account of himself to God.
Let us, therefore, no longer judge one another: but rather decide to put no stumbling-block or snare in your brother’s way.
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean of itself; but if any one thinks that any thing is unclean, to him it is unclean.
But if your brother is grieved on account of your food, you no longer walk according to love. Do not, with your food, destroy him, for whom Christ died.
Therefore, let not that which is your good be evil spoken of.
For the kingdom of God is not food and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
For he who serves the Christ in these things is acceptable to God, and approved by men.
Therefore, let us seek those things which belong to peace, and those which tend to mutual edification.
Destroy not the work of God on account of food. All meats, indeed, are clean; but meat is an evil to that man who, by eating, causes another to stumble.
It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor to do any thing by which your brother stumbles, or is ensnared, or is made weak.
Have you faith? Have it to yourself before God. Blessed is he who condemns not himself in that which he approves.
But he that doubts is condemned, if he eat, because he eats not with faith. Every thing that is not of faith, is sin.