In those days, was Hezekiah sick, unto death,—and Isaiah son of Amoz, the prophet, came unto him, and said unto him—Thus, saith Yahweh Set in order thy house, for, about to die, thou, art, and shalt not recover.
Then he turned his face unto the wall,—and prayed unto Yahweh, saying:
I beseech thee, O Yahweh, remember, I pray thee, how I have walked before thee, in truth, and with a whole heart, and, that which is good in thine eyes, have I done! And Hezekiah wept aloud.
And it came to pass that Isaiah, had not gone out into the middle court, when the word of Yahweh came unto him, saying:
Return, and thou shalt say unto Hezekiah the leader of my people—Thus, saith Yahweh, God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears,—Behold me! about to heal thee, On the third day, shalt thou go up unto the house of Yahweh;
And I will add unto thy days, fifteen years, and, out of the hand of the king of Assyria, will I deliver thee, and this city,—and will throw a covering over this city, for my own sake, and for the sake of David my servant.
And Isaiah said—Take ye a cake of figs. So they took and laid it upon the boil, and he recovered,
Now Hezekiah had said unto Isaiah, What sign is there, that Yahweh will heal me,—and that I shall go up on the third day, to the house of Yahweh?
And Isaiah said,—This unto thee, is the sign from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do the thing which he hath spoken, The shadow hath gone forward ten steps, shall it return ten steps?
And Hezekiah said—It is, a light thing, for the shadow, to decline ten steps,—Nay, but let the shadow go back ten steps.
And Isaiah the prophet cried unto Yahweh, and he caused the shadow on the steps by which it had gone down on the steps of Ahaz to go back, ten steps.
At that time, Berodach-baladan son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present, unto Hezekiah,—for he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
And Hezekiah hearkened unto them, and shewed them all his house of precious things—the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious ointment, and his armoury, and all that was found among his treasures,—there was, nothing, that Hezekiah shewed them not, in his house or in all his dominion.
Then came Isaiah the prophet unto King Hezekiah,—and said unto him—What said these men, and from whence came they unto thee? And Hezekiah said, From a land far off, came they—from Babylon.
And he said—What have they seen in thy house? Then said Hezekiah—All that is in my house, have they seen, there was, nothing, that I shewed them not, among my treasures.
Then said Isaiah unto Hezekiah,—Hear thou the word of Yahweh:
Lo! days are coming, when all that is in thine house, and that thy fathers have treasured up, unto this day, shall be carried into Babylon,—nothing shall be left, saith Yahweh;
and, of thy sons who shall issue from thee, whom thou shalt beget, shall they take away,—and they shall become eunuchs, in the palace of the king of Babylon.
And Hezekiah said unto Isaiah—Good, is the word of Yahweh, which thou hast spoken. And he said—Is it not, that, peace and stability, there shall be in my days?
Now, the rest of the story of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made a pool and an aqueduct, and brought water into the city, are, they, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
So Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and, Manasseh his son, reigned, in his stead.