And, after these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee; for he was not wishing, in Judaea, to be walking, because the Jews were seeking to slay him.
But the feast of the Jews was near, that of the pitching of tents.
His brethren, therefore, said unto him—Remove hence, and withdraw into Judaea, that, thy disciples also, may view thy works which thou art doing.
For, no one, anything in secret, doeth, and yet is seeking, himself, to be well-known. If, these things, thou art doing, manifest thyself unto the world.
For, not even his brethren, were believing on him.
Jesus, therefore, saith unto them—My season, not yet, is here; but, your season, at anytime, is ready:
The world cannot hate you; but, me, it hateth, because, I, bear witness concerning it, that, the works thereof, are, wicked.
Ye, go up unto the feast: I, not yet, am coming up unto this feast, because, my season, not yet, hath fully come.
And, these things, having said unto them, he was still abiding in Galilee.
But, when his brethren had gone up unto the feast, then, he also, went up,—not openly, but as it were in secret.
The Jews, therefore, were seeking him in the feast, and were saying—Where is that one?
and there was great, murmuring, about him among the multitudes: some, indeed, were saying—Good, is he! [but], others, were saying—Not so! but he is leading the multitude astray.
No one, nevertheless, was speaking, openly, about him, because of their fear of the Jews.
Presently, however, the feast being at its height, Jesus went up unto the temple and was teaching.
The Jews, therefore, began to marvel, saying—How, doth this one know, letters, not having learned?
Jesus, therefore, answered them, and said—My teaching, is not mine, but his who sent me.
If any one intend, his will, to do, he shall get to know concerning the teaching—whether it is, of God, or, I, from myself, am speaking,
He that, from himself, doth speak, his own glory, is seeking: he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, the same, is, true, and, injustice, in him, is there none.
Did not, Moses, give you the law? And yet, not one of you, doeth the law!—Why, seek ye, to slay, me?
The multitude answered—A demon, thou hast: Who, is seeking, to slay, thee?
Jesus answered, and said unto them—One work, I did, and ye, all, are marvelling:
For this cause, Moses, hath given you, circumcision,—not that, of Moses, it is, but of the fathers;—and, on Sabbath, ye circumcise a man.
If, circumcision, a man receiveth, on Sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken, with me, are ye bitter as gall, because, a whole man, I made, well, on Sabbath?
Be not judging according to appearance, but, just judgment, be judging,
So then, some of them of Jerusalem were saying—Is not, this, he whom they are seeking to kill?
And yet, see! with freedom of speech, he is talking, and, nothing, unto him, do they say:—Have the rulers perhaps come to know, of a truth, that, this, is, the Christ?
But, as for this one, we know whence he is; The Christ, however, whensoever he shall come, no one, getteth to know whence he is.
Jesus, therefore, cried aloud in the temple, teaching, and saying—Both me, ye know, and ye know whence I am,—and yet, of myself, have I not come, but he is real, who sent me, whom, ye, know not.
I, know him, because, from him, I am, and, he, sent me forth.
They were seeking therefore to seize him; and yet no one laid on him his hand, because, not yet, had come his hour.
But, from amongst the multitude, many, believed on him, and were saying—The Christ, whensoever he cometh, greater signs, will he do, than those which, this one, did?
The Pharisees hearkened unto the multitude murmuring concerning him these things; and the High-priests and the Pharisees sent forth officers, that they might seize him.
Jesus, therefore, said—Yet a little time, I am, with you, and withdraw unto him that sent me:
Ye shall seek me, and not find me, and, where, I, am, ye, cannot come.
The Jews, therefore, said unto themselves—Whither, is, this one, about to go, that we shall not find him? Unto the dispersion of the Greeks, is he about to go, and teach the Greeks?
What, is this which he said: Ye shall seek me and not find me, and, where, I, am, ye, cannot come?
Now, on the last—the great—day of the feast, Jesus was standing, and he cried aloud, saying—If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink:
He that believeth on me—just as said the Scripture,—River, from within him, shall flow, of living water.
Now, this, spake he concerning the Spirit which they who believed on him were about to receive; for, not yet, was there Spirit, because, Jesus, not yet, was glorified!
Some from amongst the multitude, therefore, having hearkened unto these words, were saying—This, is, in truth, the prophet.
Others, were saying—This, is, the Christ. But, others, were saying—Out of Galilee, is, the Christ, to come?
Hath not the Scripture said: Of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was, cometh the Christ?
A division, therefore, arose in the multitude, because of him.
Certain, indeed, from among them, were wishing to seize him; but, no one, thrust upon him his hands.
So then the officers came unto the High-priests and Pharisees, and, they, said unto them—For what cause, have ye not brought him?
The officers answered—Never, man spake thus!
The Pharisees, therefore, answered them—Surely, ye also, have not been led astray?
Surely, none of the rulers, hath believed in him, nor of the Pharisees?
But, this multitude, that take no note of the law, are, laid under a curse.
Nicodemus saith unto them—he that came unto him formerly, being, one, from among them—
Surely, our law, doth not judge the man, unless it hear first from him, and get to know what he is doing?
They answered and said unto him—Surely, thou also, art not, of Galilee? Search and see! That, out of Galilee, a prophet is not to arise.
[[And they went, each unto his own house;