Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, together with the bishops and deacons:
Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God in all my remembrance of you,
always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy
on account of your fellowship in the cause of the gospel from the first day until now;
being confident of this very thing, that he who began in you a good work, will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus;
even as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, all of you being sharers of the grace bestowed on me.
For God is my witness how much I long for you all in the tender affection of Christ Jesus.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all discernment;
so that ye may approve the things that are most excellent, in order that ye may be pure and without offence against the day of Christ,
being filled with the fruit of righteousness which is through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
But I wish you to know, brethren, that things with me have resulted in the furtherance of the gospel;
so that my bonds have become known in connection with Christ in the whole camp of the imperial guards, and to all the rest;
and that the great part of the brethren, made confident in the Lord by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some also from good will.
They who are of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel;
but they who are of a factious spirit preach Christ with no pure intent, thinking to stir up affliction to my bonds.
What then? Notwithstanding, in every way, whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is preached; and therein do I rejoice, yea, and shall rejoice.
For I know that this will turn out to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be put to shame, but that with all boldness, as always, so also now, Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
But if to live in the flesh, if this is to me the fruit of my labor, then what I should choose, I cannot say;
but I am held in a strait by the two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; for it is far better;
but to abide in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
And being persuaded of this, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your advancement and joy in your faith,
that your glorying in me, in the cause of Christ Jesus, may be more abundant by my coming to you again.
Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or remain absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul striving together for the faith of the gospel,
and in nothing terrified by your adversaries; which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation; and that from God;
for to you it was given in behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but in his behalf to suffer also;
as ye have the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear of in me.