Let every soul be subject to the higher authorities. For there is no authority but from God: the authorities that are, have been appointed by God.
Therefore, he that resists the authority, resists the appointment of God; and those who resist shall receive to themselves condemnation.
For rulers are not a terror to works that are good, but to those which are evil. Will you, then, not be afraid of the authority? Do that which is good, and you shall receive praise from the same.
For he is the minister of God to you for that which is good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid; for he bears not the sword in vain. For he is the minister of God to inflict punishment on him that does evil.
Wherefore, it is necessary to be subject, not only because of punishment, but also for conscience sake.
On this very account, too, pay tribute also: for they are the public servants of God, attending continually to this very thing.
Render, therefore, to all their dues; tribute, to whom tribute is due; custom, to whom custom; fear, to whom fear; honor, to whom honor is due.
Owe no one any thing, except to love one another; for he that loves another, has fulfilled the law.
For these commandments: You shall not commit adultery, you shall not kill, you shall not steal, you shall not indulge evil desire; and if there is any other commandment, all are summed up in this saying, namely: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
Love works no evil to our neighbor; therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law.
And do this, because you know the time, that the hour has already come when we should awake out of sleep; for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed:
the night is far advanced, the day draws near. Let us, therefore, put off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light.
Let us walk in a becoming manner, as in the day; not in riotings and in drunkenness, not in lewdness and in wantonness, not in contention and in envy:
but put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the desires of the flesh.