Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou shall say unto them,—When ye shall enter into the land of your dwelling-places, which, I, am giving unto you;
and ye would offer, as an altar-flame unto Yahweh an ascending-offering or a sacrifice, for celebrating a vow or as a freewill-offering, or in your appointed seasons,—by way of offering a satisfying odour unto Yahweh, from the herd or from the flock,
then shall he that bringeth near his oblation bring near unto Yahweh a meal-offering, of fine meal a tenth part [of an ephah] overflowed with the fourth part of a hin of oil;
wine also for a drink-offering, the fourth part of a hin, shalt thou offer with the ascending-offering or with the sacrifice,—for each he-lamb.
Or, with a ram, thou shalt offer a meal-offering, of fine meal, two tenths,—overflowed with oil, the third of a hin;
wine also, for a drink-offering, the third of a hin, shalt thou bring near as a satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
And when thou wouldest offer a choice young bullock as an ascending-offering or sacrifice,—for celebrating a vow or as a peace-offering unto Yahweh,
then shall he bring near with his choice young bullock, a meal-offering, of fine meal three tenths,—overflowed with half a hin of oil;
wine also, shalt thou bring near for a drink-offering, half a hin,—for an altar-flame of satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
Thus and thus, shall it be done, for each ox, and for each ram,—and for each young one among the sheep, or among the goats:
according to the number which ye shall offer, thus and thus, shall ye do for each one according to their number.
Every one born in the land, thus and thus, shall offer these things,—when bringing near an altar-flame of a satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
And when there shall sojourn with you a sojourner, or one who is in your midst to your generations, and he would offer an altar-flame of a satisfying odour unto Yahweh, as ye offer, so, shall he offer,
In the convocation, one statute, shall there be for you and for the sojourner who sojourneth,—an age-abiding statute unto your generations, as ye are, so, the sojourner, shall be before Yahweh:
one law and one regulation, shall there be for yourselves and for the sojourner that sojourneth with you.
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them,—When ye enter into the land whereinto I, am bringing you,
then shall it be, when ye eat the bread of the land, that ye shall heave up a heave-offering unto Yahweh.
Of the first of your meal, shall ye heave up, a cake, as a heave-offering,—like the heave-offering of grain, so shall ye heave it.
Of the first of your meal, shall ye give unto Yahweh a heave-offering,—unto your generations.
And when ye shall make a mistake, and not observe all these commandments,—which Yahweh hath spoken unto Moses;
even all that Yahweh hath given unto you in command, by the hand of Moses,—from the day that Yahweh gave command, and onward unto your generations,
then shall it be—if, any from the eyes of the assembly, it hath been done by mistake, that all the assembly shall offer one choice young bullock for an ascending-sacrifice as a satisfying odour unto Yahweh, with the meal-offering thereof and the drink-offering thereof, according to the regulation,—and one young he-goat as a sin-bearer.
So shall the priest put a propitiatory, covering over all the assembly of the sons of Israel and pardon shall be granted unto them,—because a mistake, it was, they, therefore have brought in their offering—an altar-flame unto Yahweh and their sin-bearer before Yahweh for their mistake:
and pardon shall be granted unto all the assembly of the sons of Israel and unto the sojourner that sojourneth in their midst,—for, in the case of all the people, it was, by mistake.
And if, any one person, shall sin by mistake, then shall he bring near a she-goat of the first year as a sin-bearer;
and the priest shall put a propitiatory-covering over the person who hath made the mistake, when he hath sinned by mistake before Yahweh, even put a propitiatory-covering over him, and pardon shall be granted him.
For the native born among the sons of Israel, and for the sojourner that sojourneth in their midst, one law, shall there be unto you—for acting by mistake.
But, as for the person who acteth with a high hand—of the native born or of the sojourners, Yahweh himself, he, reproacheth,—therefore shall that person be cut off out of the midst of his people.
Because the word of Yahweh, hath he despised, and his commandment, hath he broken, that person shall be surely cut off, his iniquity, is in himself.
While the sons of Israel were in the desert, they found a man gathering sticks on the sabbath day.
And they who found him gathering sticks, brought him near, unto Moses and unto Aaron and unto all the assembly.
And they put him in ward,—because it was not clear what they should do unto him.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses, The man shall be, put to death,—all the assembly, stoning him with stones, outside the camp.
So then all the assembly, put him forth, outside the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them, That they shall make them fringes on the corners of their garments unto their generations—and shall put upon the fringe of the corner a cord of blue:
so shall they serve you as fringes, and when ye see then, then shall ye call to mind all the commandments of Yahweh, and shall do them,—and shall not spy out, after your own hearts, and after your own eyes for things, after which, ye, are ready to go unchastely away:
to the intent ye may call to mind, and do all my commandments, and be holy unto your God.
I—Yahweh, am your God—who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to become your God,—I,—Yahweh, am your God.