And I, brethren, was not able to speak to you, as to spiritual men, but as to those who are carnal, as to babes in Christ.
I fed you with milk, not with meat; for you were not then able to bear it; indeed, not even now are you able;
for you are yet carnal. For, since envy and strife and divisions are among you, are you not carnal, and do you not walk as men?
For when one says, I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos, are you not carnal?
Who, then, is Paul? and who is Apollos? Ministers by whom you have believed, even as the Lord gave to each one.
I planted, Apollos watered: but God made to grow.
So, neither he that plants nor he that waters is any thing: but God that makes to grow.
But he that plants and he that waters are one; and each one shall receive his own reward, according to his own labor.
For we are fellow-laborers for God: you are God’s field, you are God’s building.
According to the grace of God that is given to me, as a wise master-builder, I have laid the foundation, and another builds on this. But let every one take heed how he builds on this.
For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which, is Jesus Christ.
If any man builds on this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble,
each man’s work shall be made manifest; for the day shall make it manifest, for it is revealed with fire: and the fire shall try each man’s work, what sort it is.
If any man’s work abide, which he builds on this, he shall receive a reward;
if any man’s work be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved, yet so, as through fire.
Know you not that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy: for the temple of God is holy, which temple you are.
Let no one deceive himself: if any one among you is considered as wise in this age, let him become a fool, that he may be wise.
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written: He takes the wise in their own craftiness.
And again: The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain.
Therefore, let no one glory in men; for all things are yours,
whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come, all are yours:
and you are Christ’s: and Christ is God’s.