The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the prophecy: The man spoke to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Ucal, saying,
Surely I am more like an animal than any man, and do not have the understanding of a man.
I have not learned wisdom, nor the knowledge of the holy.
Who has gone up to Heaven and has come down? Who has gathered the wind in His fists? Who has bound the waters in His garments? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is His name, and what is His Son's name? Surely you know.
Every word of God is pure; He is a shield to those who put their trust in Him.
Do not add to His words, lest He reprove you and you be found a liar.
I have asked two things from You; do not deny them before I die;
remove far from me vanity and a lying word; give me neither poverty or riches; tear for me my portion of bread,
lest I be full and deceive, and say, Who is the LORD? Or lest I be poor, and steal, and violate the name of my God.
Do not accuse a servant to his master, lest he curse you, and you be found guilty.
There is a generation that curses their father, and does not bless their mother.
There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their own filth.
There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! And their eyelids are lifted up.
There is a generation whose teeth are like swords, and their jaw teeth like knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men.
The leech has two daughters, crying, Give, give! Three things are never satisfied, yea, four things never say, Enough!
The grave; and the barren womb, the earth not filled with water, and the fire, have not said, Enough.
The eye that mocks at his father and despises to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.
Three things are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I do not know:
the way of an eagle in the air; the way of a snake on a rock; the way of a ship in the middle of the sea; and the way of a man with a maiden.
Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eats, and wipes her mouth, and says, I have done no evil.
Under three things the earth quakes, and under four it is not able to bear up:
for a servant when he reigns; and a fool when he is filled with food;
for a hateful woman when she is married; and a servant girl that is heir to her mistress.
Four things are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise:
the ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their food in the summer;
the rock-badgers are not a mighty people, yet they make their houses in the rock;
the locusts have no king, yet they go forth by bands, all of them;
you can take the lizard with the hands, yet it is in king's palaces.
There are three things which go well in a march, yea, four that go well in walking:
a lion is mighty among beasts and does not turn away for any;
one girded in the loins; and a he-goat; and a king when his army is with him.
If you have done foolishly in lifting yourself up, or if you have thought evil, lay your hand on your mouth.
Surely the churning of milk brings forth butter, and the wringing of the nose brings forth blood; so the forcing of wrath brings forth fighting.