AT that time came the disciples to Jesus, saying, Who is indeed the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
And Jesus calling a little boy, set him in the midst of them,
and said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be changed and be as little children, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven.
Whosoever therefore shall humble himself, as this little child, he shall be greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
And whosoever shall receive one such little child in my name, receiveth me.
And whosoever shall cause one of these little ones, who believe in me, to stumble, it were better for him that a millstone was hung at his neck, and that he was sunk in the depth of the sea.
Wo to the world because of offences! for there is a necessity that offences come: nevertheless, wo to that man by whom the offence cometh!
If then thy hand, or thy foot, lead thee to offend, cut them off, and cast them from thee: for it were better for thee to enter into life, halting or maimed, than having two hands or two feet to be cast into the fire, which is eternal.
And if thine eye lead thee to offend, pluck it out and cast it from thee, for it were better for thee to enter into life with one eye only, than having two eyes to be cast into hell-fire.
See that ye despise not one of these little ones, for I say unto you, That their angels in heaven continually behold the face of my Father who is in heaven.
For the Son of man is come to save that which was lost.
What think you? If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them stray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine in the mountains, and go and seek that which had strayed?
And if he happen to find it, verily I say unto you, that he rejoiceth over it more than over the ninety and nine which never went astray.
Even so it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven, that one of these little ones perish.
Now if thy brother sin against thee, go and reprove him between thyself and him alone; if he hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother.
But if he will not hear thee, take with thee one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be confirmed.
But if he disregard them, inform the church: and if he disregard the church, let him be to thee as a heathen, or a publican.
Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever things ye shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever things ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Again I say unto you, That if two of you are concurring upon earth, respecting any matter, which ye shall ask, it shall be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.
For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
Then Peter coming to him, said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times?
Jesus saith to him, I tell thee not until seven times, but unto seventy times seven.
Therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king who purposed to settle his account with his servants.
And when he began to make up the account, there was brought to him one debtor, ten thousand talents in arrear:
but not having wherewithal to pay, his lord ordered him to be sold, and his wife and his children, and all things whatsoever he possessed, and payment to be made.
Then that servant falling prostrate, paid him the most profound homage, saying, Lord, have forbearance with me, and I will pay thee all.
Then his lord, moved with compassion towards that servant, discharged him, and forgave him the debt.
But that servant going out, found one of his fellow-servants, who owed him a hundred denarii, and seizing, throttled him, saying, Pay me what thou owest.
Then his fellow-servant fell at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have forbearance with me, and I will pay thee all.
And he would not: but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay what he owed.
Then his fellow-servants, when they saw what was done, were exceedingly sorry, and came to their lord, and gave him an explicit account of all things that had passed.
Then his lord, calling him before him, said to him, Thou vile slave! all that debt I forgave thee, because thou besoughtest me:
and oughtest thou not to have had compassion on thy fellow-servant, even as I had pity on thee?
And his lord, incensed, delivered him up to the torturers, till he should pay all that he owed him.
Even so also will my heavenly Father do to you, except ye forgive every one of you his brother, from your hearts, their trespasses.