And I, brothers, could not speak to you as to spiritual ones, but as to carnal, as to babes in Christ.
I have fed you with milk and not with solid food, for you were not yet able to bear it; nor are you able even now.
For you are yet carnal. For in that there is among you envyings and strife and divisions, are you not carnal, and do you not walk according to men?
For while one says, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are you not carnal?
Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom you believed, even to each the Lord gave?
I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase.
So then neither is he who plants anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase.
So he planting, and he watering, are one, and each one shall receive his own reward according to his own labor.
For we are fellow-workers of God, a field of God, and you are a building of God.
According to the grace of God which is given to me, as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another builds on it. But let every man be careful how he builds on it.
For any other foundation can no one lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
And if anyone builds on this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble,
each one's work shall be revealed. For the Day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try each one's work as to what kind it is.
If anyone's work which he built remains, he shall receive a reward.
If anyone's work shall be burned up, he shall suffer loss. But he shall be saved, yet so as by fire.
Do you not know that you are a temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If anyone defiles the temple of God, God shall destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, which you are.
Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this world, let him become a fool so that he may be wise.
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written, "He takes the wise in their own craftiness."
And again, " The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain."
Therefore let no one glory in men. For all things are yours,
whether it is Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are yours,
and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.