Give ear to my prayer, O God! Hide not thyself from my supplication!
Attend unto me, and hear me! I wander about mourning and wailing,
On account of the clamors of the enemy, On account of the violence of the wicked. For they bring evil upon me, And in wrath set themselves against me.
My heart trembleth in my bosom, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me.
Fear and trembling have seized me, And horror hath overwhelmed me.
Then I say, O that I had wings like a dove! For then would I fly away, and be at rest.
Behold, I would wander far away, And take up my abode in a wilderness. [Pause.]
I would hasten away to a shelter From the rushing wind and tempest.
Confound, O Lord! divide their counsels! For I behold violence and strife in the city.
Day and night do these go about its walls; In the midst of it are iniquity and mischief.
Wickedness is in the midst of it; Oppression and fraud depart not from its streets.
It was not an enemy that reviled me, Then I could have borne it; Nor one that hated me, who rose up against me; From him I could have hid myself.
But it was thou, a man my equal, My friend, and my acquaintance.
We held sweet converse together, And walked to the house of God in company.
May sudden death seize upon them! May they go down to the underworld alive! For wickedness is in their dwellings, in the midst of them.
As for me, I will call upon God, And Jehovah will save me.
At evening, at morn, and at noon I mourn and sigh, And he will hear my voice.
He will deliver me in peace from my conflict; For many have risen up against me.
God will hear me, and bring them down,—He that hath been judge of old. [Pause.] Because they have no changes, Therefore they fear not God.
They lift up their hands against their friend, And break their covenant with him.
Their speech was softer than butter, But war was in their heart; Their words were smoother than oil, Yet were they drawn swords.
"Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he will sustain thee; He will never suffer the righteous to fall!"
Yea, thou, O God! wilt bring them down into the lowest pit! Bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in thee!