Then he took me forth unto the outer court, the way toward the north,—and brought me unto the chamber which was over against the secluded place and which was over against the enclosing-wall, towards the north.
Facing the length of the hundred cubits, was the entrance of the north,—and the breadth was fifty cubits:
over against the twenty which pertained to the inner court, and over against the pavement which pertained to the outer court, was gallery facing gallery, by the thirties;
and before the chambers, was a walk ten cubits in breadth inward, a way of one cubit,—and their entrances were to the north.
Now, the highest chambers, were shortened,—because the galleries took away therefrom more than from the lowest or from the middle in structure.
For three stories, they were; and had not pillars like the pillars of the courts; for this cause, it differed from the lowest and from the middle, from the ground.
And as for the wall that was without. answering to the chambers, toward the outer court facing the chambers, the length thereof was fifty cubits.
For the length of the chambers which pertained to the outer court was fifty cubits,—and lo! in front of the temple a hundred cubits,
And from under these chambers, was the entry from the east when one goeth in by them from the outer court.
In the thickness of the wall of the court toward the east facing the secluded place and facing the enclosing wall, were chambers.
And the way before them was like the appearance of the chambers which were toward the north, as was their length, so, was their breadth,—and all their exits were both according to their regulations, and according to their entrances.
And according to the entrances of the chambers which were toward the south, was the entrance at the head of the way—the way in the face of the covered wall, the way toward the east in entering them.
Then said he unto me, The chambers of the north the chambers of the south which face the secluded place, they are the holy chambers where the priests who draw near to Yahweh shall eat the most holy things; there, shall they lay the most holy things, and the meal offering and the sin-bearer and the guilt bearer, for the place is holy!
When the priests enter them, then shall they not go forth out of the holy place into the outer court, but there, shall they lay their garments wherein they minister for holy they are, and shall put on other garments, and so draw near unto that which pertaineth to the people.
And when he had ended the measurings of the inner house, then he brought me forth by way of the gate which looked toward the east,— and measured it round about on every side.
He measured the east side with the measuring reed,—five hundred reeds by the measuring reed round about,
He measured the north side, five hundred reeds, by the measuring reed round about.
The south side, measured he,—five hundred reeds, by the measuring reed.
He turned about to the west side,—he measured five hundred reeds, by the measuring reed.
Toward the four winds, measured he it a wall, had it round about on every side, in length, five hundred, and in breadth five hundred,—to make a separation, between the holy and the common.