IF there be then any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any communion of spirit, if any bowels and compassions,
fulfil ye my joy, that ye may be united in sentiment, having the same love, of one soul, of one mind.
Let nothing be done contentiously or vain-gloriously; but in humility reckoning others superior to yourselves.
Let not each aim at their own particular interests, but every man at those of others.
Let the same sentiment of mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
who being in the form of God counted it no usurpation to claim equality with God:
but emptied himself, assuming the form of a servant, made after the similitude of mortal men;
and found in fashion as man, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, even to the death of the cross.
Wherefore God also hath transcendently exalted him, and bestowed on him a name which is above every name:
that to the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of beings celestial and terrestrial, and infernal;
and every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus is Messiah, to the glory of God the Father.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always been obedient, not only during my presence with you, but now much more in my absence, with fear and trembling work out your own salvation.
For it is God who worketh effectually in you both to will and to perform of his good pleasure.
Do all things without murmurings or disputes:
that ye may be blameless and harmless, the children of God, inoffensive, in the midst of an untoward and perverse generation, among whom ye shine as luminaries in the world;
holding up the word of life, that I may glory in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, nor laboured in vain.
Yea, and should I become the victim, in the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
In like manner do ye also joy and rejoice with me.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be refreshed in spirit, when I know your affairs.
For I have no one like minded with him, who will genuinely care for your affairs.
For all seek their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus.
But ye have known the trial of him, that, as a son with a father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
Him therefore I hope to send immediately as soon as I see clearly what will become of me.
But I have confidence in the Lord that I myself shall come shortly.
But I have thought it necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother, and fellow-labourer, and fellow-soldier, but your messenger, and the minister who supplied my want.
For indeed he greatly longed after you all, and was very sorry that ye had heard that he had been sick.
For sick indeed he was, nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that seeing him once more ye may rejoice, and I be less sorrowful.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and honourably treat those that are such:
for in the work of Christ he was nigh unto death indifferent about life, that he might afford me that service which it was not in your power to render me.