And he spoke a parable to them, that they ought always to pray, and not to become weary,
saying: There was in a certain city a judge, who neither feared God nor regarded man.
And there was a widow in that city, and she came to him, and said: Avenge me on my opponent at law.
And for a while he refused. But afterward he said within himself: Though I fear not God, nor regard man,
yet, because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.
And the Lord said: Hear what the unjust judge says;
and will not God avenge his elect, who cry to him day and night, though he delay long in respect to them?
I say to you, that he will avenge them speedily. Yet, when the Son of man comes, will he find the faith on the earth?
And he spoke this parable to some, who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and who despised others.
Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself: God, I thank thee that I am not as other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican.
I fast twice in the week; I give tithes of all that I possess.
And the publican, standing afar off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying: God, be merciful to me a sinner.
I say to you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For every one that exalts himself, shall be humbled; but he that humbles himself, shall be exalted.
And they brought to him infants also, that he might touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
And Jesus called them to him, and said: Let the little children come to me, and hinder them not; for of such is the kingdom of God.
Verily I say to you, Whoever shall not receive the kingdom of God, as a little child, shall in no way enter into it.
And a certain ruler asked him, saying: Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him: Why do you call me good? None is good but one, that is God.
You know the commandments, Do not commit adultery; Do not kill; Do not steal; Do not bear false testimony; Honor your father and your mother.
He replied: All these have I kept from my youth.
When Jesus heard this, he said to him: One thing you yet lack; sell all that you have, and give to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
And when he heard this, he was very sad, for he was very rich.
When Jesus saw that he was very sad, he said: How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom, of God.
And those who heard it said: Who, then, can be saved?
He replied: Things that are impossible with men, are possible with God.
Then Peter said: Behold, we have left all and followed thee.
And he said to them: Verily I say to you, There is no one that has left house, or parents, or brothers, or wife, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,
who shall not receive manifold more in this time, and in the age to come, eternal life.
And he took the twelve aside, and said to them: Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished.:
For he shall be delivered to the Gentiles, and shall be derided and insulted and spit upon;
and they shall scourge him, and put him to death, and on the third day he shall rise again.
And they understood none of these things; and this saying was concealed from them; and they understood not the things that were spoken.
And it came to pass, that, as he came near to Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the road begging.
And when he heard the multitude passing by, he asked what this meant.
And they told him that Jesus the Nazarene was passing by.
And he cried out and said: Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me.
And those who went before rebuked him, that he should be silent. But he cried so much the more: Son of David, have mercy on me.
And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked him,
saying: What do you wish me to do for you? he replied: Lord, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said to him: Receive your sight; your faith has saved you.
And he immediately received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God.