Adam, Seth, Enos,
Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared,
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
And the sons of Gomer were Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan,
and the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
And Cush fathered Nimrod: he began to be mighty on the earth.
And Mizraim fathered Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
and Pathrusim, and Casluhim, from whom came the Philistines and the Caphthorim.
And Canaan fathered Zidon his first-born, and Heth,
the Jebusite also, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
The sons of Shem were Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
And Arphaxad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber.
And to Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
And Joktan fathered Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazar-maveth, and Jerah,
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
Eber, Peleg, Reu,
Serug, Nahor, Terah,
Abram (he was Abraham).
The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
These are their generations. The first-born of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are they, the sons of Ishmael.
And the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan were Sheba and Dedan.
And the sons of Midian: Ephah and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.
And Abraham fathered Isaac. The sons of Isaac were Esau and Israel.
The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam; Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
And the sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan.
And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. And Timna was Lotan's sister.
The sons of Shobal: Alian and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
The son of Anah was Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Amram, and Eshban and Ithran, and Cheran.
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan and Jakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any kings reigned over the sons of Israel: Bela the son of Beor, and his city's name: Dinhabah.
And Bela died; and Jobab the son of Zerah reigned in his place from Bozrah.
And Jobab died; and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
And Husham died; and Hadad the son of Bedad reigned in his place, who struck Midian in the field of Moab; and the name of his city was Avith.
And Hadad died; and Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.
And Samlah died; and Shaul from Rehoboth by the river reigned in his place.
And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.
And Baal-hanan died; and Hadad reigned in his place; and his city's name, Pai, and his wife's name, Mehetabel the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
And Hadad died; and the chiefs of Edom: chief Timnah; chief Aliah; chief Jetheth;
chief Aholibamah; chief Elah; chief Pinon,
chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,
chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These are the princes of Edom.