And it happened when Rehoboam had established the kingdom, and had made himself strong, he departed from the law of the LORD, and all Israel with him.
And it happened in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they had sinned against the LORD
with twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. And the people who came with him out of Egypt were without number: Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians.
And he took the fortified cities in Judah, and came to Jerusalem.
And Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam, and to the rulers of Judah who were gathered to Jerusalem because of Shishak. And he said to them, So says the LORD, You have forsaken Me, and therefore I also have left you in the hand of Shishak.
And the rulers of Israel and the king humbled themselves. And they said, The LORD is righteous.
And when the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves. I will not destroy them, but I will give them some deliverance. And My wrath shall not be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
But they shall be his servants, so that they may know My service, and the service of the kings of the countries.
And Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem and took away the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house. He took all. And he carried away the shields of gold which Solomon had made.
In place of these king Rehoboam made shields of bronze, and gave them into the hands of the chief of the guard who kept the entrance of the king's house.
And when the king entered into the house of the LORD, the guard came and carried them and brought them again into the guardroom.
And when he humbled himself, the wrath of the LORD turned from him so that He would not destroy him altogether. And also things went well in Judah.
And king Rehoboam strengthened himself at Jerusalem, and reigned. For Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put His name there. And his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
And he did the evil because he did not prepare his heart to seek the LORD.
And the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and Iddo the seer concerning genealogies? And the wars of Rehoboam and Jeroboam lasted all their days.
And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David. And his son Abijah reigned in his place.