The word which came unto Jeremiah from Yahweh,—in the days of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah saying:
Go unto the house of the Rechabites, and speak with them, and bring them into the house of Yahweh, into one of the chambers,—and give them, wine, to drink.
So I took Jaazaniah, son of Jeremiah son of Habazziniah, and his brethren, and all his sons,—and all the house of the Rechabites;
and brought them into the house of Yahweh, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan son of Igdaliah, a man of God,—which was beside the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamber of Maaseiah son of Shallum keeper of the porch;
and I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites bowls full of wine, and cups,—and said unto them Drink ye wine.
Then said they,—We will not drink wine,—for Jonadab son of Rechab, our father, laid command upon us, saying, Ye shall not drink wine, ye, nor your sons, unto times age-abiding;
nor house, shall ye build nor, seed, shall ye sow, nor vineyard, shall ye plant, neither shall ye have them,—but in tents, shall ye dwell, all your days, that ye may live many days on the face of the soil where ye are sojourning.
So we have hearkened unto the voice of Jonadab, son of Rechab, our father, in all that he commanded us,—not to drink wine all our days, we, our wives, our sons nor our daughters;
and not to build houses for us to dwell in,—and so, vineyard or field or seed, have we none;
but we have dwelt in tents,—and have hearkened and done, according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
And so it came to pass when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came up into the land, that we said,—Let us even enter, Jerusalem, because of the force of the Chaldeans and because of the force of the Syrians: So have we dwelt in Jerusalem.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto Jeremiah, saying:
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel, Go and say to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem,—Will ye not receive correction by hearkening unto my words? Demandeth Yahweh:
Confirmed are the words of Jonadab son of Rechab—which he commanded his sons that they should not drink, wine, and they have not drunk until this day, for they have hearkened unto the command of their father, But, I, have spoken unto you, betimes, speaking, and ye have not hearkened, unto me.
And I sent unto you all my servants the prophets, betimes, sending, saying, Return I pray you—every man from his wicked way, And amend your doings, And do not go after other gods to serve them, So shall ye remain on the soil which I gave to you, and to your fathers,—but ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened, unto me.
Because the sons of Jonadab son of Rechab have, confirmed, the commandment of their father which he commanded them,—whereas, this people, have not hearkened unto me,
Therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh, God of hosts, God of Israel, Behold me! bringing in against Judah and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, all the calamity, which I have spoken concerning them,—Because I spake unto them and they did not hearken, And I called to them and they did not answer.
But to the house of the Rechabites, said Jeremiah: Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel, Because ye have hearkened unto the commandment of Jonadab your father, and have kept all his commandments, and done according to all that he commanded you
Therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel,—Jonadab son of Rechab shall not want one to stand before me, all the days!