Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene comes early, while it was still darkness, to the sepulcher, and sees the stone taken away from the sepulcher.
Therefore she runs and comes to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and says to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulcher, and we know not where they have laid him.
Peter therefore went forth, and the other disciple, and they went toward the sepulcher.
And the two men ran together, and the other disciple ran ahead quicker than Peter and came first to the sepulcher.
And after stooping down, he sees the linen cloths lying, yet he entered not.
Simon Peter therefore comes following him, and he entered into the sepulcher. And he sees the linen cloths lying,
and the face cloth that was on his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but wrapped up in one place separately.
Therefore then the other disciple who came first to the sepulcher, also entered in, and he saw and believed.
For they had not yet known the scripture that he must rise from the dead.
So the disciples departed again to themselves.
But Mary had stood outside near the sepulcher weeping. So, as she wept, she stooped down to the sepulcher.
And she sees two agents in white, sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus was lain.
And those men say to her, Woman, why weep thou? She says to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.
And having said these things, she turned backward, and sees Jesus standing. And she had not known that it is Jesus.
Jesus says to her, Woman, why weep thou? Whom seek thou? That woman, supposing that he is the gardener, says to him, Sir, if thou have taken him, tell me where thou have laid him, and I will take him away.
Jesus says to her, Mary. After turning around, that woman says to him, Rabboni, which says, Teacher.
Jesus says to her, Do not touch me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brothers, and say to them, I ascend to my Father and your Father, and my God and your God.
Mary Magdalene comes informing the disciples that she has seen the Lord, and he spoke these things to her.
Therefore being evening that day, the first day of the week, and the doors having been shut where the disciples were who assembled because of fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and says to them, Peace to you.
And having said this, he showed them his hands and side. His disciples therefore rejoiced when they saw the Lord.
Jesus therefore said to them again, Peace to you. As the Father has sent me, I also send you.
And after saying this, he breathed on them, and says to them, Receive ye the Holy Spirit.
If ye forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If ye retain of any, they are retained.
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I may see the mark of the nails in his hands, and put my finger into the mark of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will, no, not believe.
And after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus comes, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you.
Then he says to Thomas, Bring thy finger here, and see my hands, and bring thy hand, and put into my side, and do not become faithless, but believing.
Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God.
Jesus says to him, Because thou have seen me, thou have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen, and have believed.
And indeed therefore many other signs Jesus did in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book.
But these are written, so that ye may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye may have life in his name.