'O give thanks unto HaShem, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for ever.
So let Israel now say, for His mercy endureth for ever,
So let the house of Aaron now say, for His mercy endureth for ever.
So let them now that fear HaShem say, for His mercy endureth for ever.
Out of my straits I called upon HaShem; He answered me with great enlargement.
HaShem is for me; I will not fear; what can man do unto me?
HaShem is for me as my helper; and I shall gaze upon them that hate me.
It is better to take refuge in HaShem than to trust in man.
It is better to take refuge in HaShem than to trust in princes.
All nations compass me about; verily, in the name of HaShem I will cut them off.
They compass me about, yea, they compass me about; verily, in the name of HaShem I will cut them off.
They compass me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns; verily, in the name of HaShem I will cut them off.
Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; but HaShem helped me.
HaShem is my strength and song; and He is become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; the right hand of HaShem doeth valiantly.
The right hand of HaShem is exalted; the right hand of HaShem doeth valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of HaShem.
HaShem hath chastened me sore; but He hath not given me over unto death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto HaShem.
This is the gate of HaShem; the righteous shall enter into it.
I will give thanks unto Thee, for Thou hast answered me, and art become my salvation.
The stone which the builders rejected is become the chief corner-stone.
This is HaShem'S doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.
This is the day which HaShem hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
We beseech Thee, O HaShem, save now! We beseech Thee, O HaShem, make us now to prosper!
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of HaShem; we bless you out of the house of HaShem.
HaShem is G-d, and hath given us light; order the festival procession with boughs, even unto the horns of the altar.
Thou art my G-d, and I will give thanks unto Thee; Thou art my G-d, I will exalt Thee.
O give thanks unto HaShem, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for ever.