O give thanks to Yahweh—For he is good, For, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness.
Let the redeemed of Yahweh say, Whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the adversary;
And, out of the lands, hath gathered them—From the east and from the west, From the north and from the south.
They wandered about in the desert—in a waste, Way to a city to dwell in, found they none;
Hungry—yea thirsty, their soul, within them, fainted:
Then made they outcry to Yahweh, in their peril, Out of their distresses, he rescued them;
And led them by a straight road, That they might journey to a city to dwell in.
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his lovingkindness, and for his wonderful dealings with the sons of men;
For he hath satisfied the longing soul, and, the famished soul, hath he filled with good.
The dwellers in darkness and death-shade, bound with oppression and iron;
Because they had rebelled against the sayings of GOD,—and, the counsel of the Most High, they had spurned;
And he bowed down, with labour, their heart, They staggered, with no one to help,
Then made they outcry to Yahweh in their peril, Out of their distresses, he saved them;
He brought them forth out of darkness and death-shade, and, their fetters, he tare off.
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his lovingkindness, and for his wonderful dealings with the sons of men!
For he brake in pieces the doors of bronze, And, the bars of iron, he hewed asunder.
The perverse, by reason of their transgression, and on account of their iniquities, are afflicted;
All manner of food, their soul abhorreth, and so they draw near unto the gates of death,
Then make they outcry to Yahweh in their peril, and, out of their distresses, he saveth them.
He sendeth his word, and healeth them, and delivereth them from their graves.
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his lovingkindness, and for his wonderful dealings with the sons of men!
Yea let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and recount his works with a shout.
Men who go down to the sea, in ships, doing business through mighty waters;
They, see the works of Yahweh, and his wonders in the deep;
And he speaketh, and there ariseth a tempestuous wind, which lifteth on high its rolling waves;
They mount the heavens, they descend the roaring deeps, their soul, by trouble, dissolveth;
They reel and stagger, like a drunken man, and, all their wisdom, is engulfed,
Then make they outcry to Yahweh in their peril, and, out of their distresses, he bringeth them forth,
He calmeth the storm to a whisper, and silent are their rolling waves:
Then are they glad, because they are hushed, And he guideth them unto their desired haven.
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his lovingkindness, and for his wonderful dealings with the sons of men!
Yea let them extol him in the convocation of the people, and, in the seated company of elders, let them praise him.
He turneth Rivers into a desert, and, Springs of Water, into thirsty ground,
A Land of Fruit, into a waste of salt, For the wickedness of them who dwell therein.
He turneth A Desert, into a pool of water, and, A Parched Land into springs of water;
And hath caused the famished to dwell there, And they have built them a city to dwell in;
And have sown fields, and planted vineyards, and made them fruits of increase:
Thus hath he blessed them, and they have multiplied greatly, And, their cattle, he maketh not few.
So have they become few and been brought low, By oppression, misfortune, and sorrow;
He poureth contempt upon nobles, and causeth them to wander in a pathless waste;
But he hath set the needy on high from affliction, and made families, like a flock:—
The upright seeth and is glad, And, all perverseness, hath closed her mouth.
Who is wise? then let him observe these things! and diligently consider the lovingkindness of Yahweh.