To the agent of the congregation in Ephesus write, These things says he who holds the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks in the midst of the seven golden lampstands:
I know thy works, and thy toil, and thy perseverance, and that thou cannot tolerate evil, and thou examined those who say themselves to be apostles, and are not, and found them false.
And thou have perseverance. And thou endured because of my name, and did not become weary.
Nevertheless, I have against thee because thou left thy first love.
Remember therefore from where thou have fallen, and repent and do the first works. And if not, I come to thee quickly, and will move thy lampstand out of its place, if thou do not repent.
But this thou have, that thou hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the congregations. To him who overcomes, I will give him to eat from the tree of life that is in the midst of the paradise of my God.
And to the agent of the congregation in Smyrna write, These things says the first and the last, who became dead, and lived:
I know thy works and tribulation and poverty (but thou are rich), and the blasphemy of those who say themselves to be Jews, and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
Fear none of the things that thou are going to suffer. Behold, the devil is indeed going to cast some of you into prison, so that ye may be tried, and ye will have tribulation ten days. Become thou faithful until death, and I will give thee the crown of life.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the congregations. He who overcomes will, no, not be hurt from the second death.
And to the agent of the congregation in Pergamos write, These things says he who has the sharp two-edged sword:
I know thy works, and where thou dwell, where Satan's throne is. And thou hold firm my name, and did not deny my faith in the days in which Antipas was my faithful witness, who was killed among you where Satan dwells.
But I have a few things against thee, because thou have there men who adhere to the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast a snare before the sons of Israel, even to eat idol sacrifices, and to fornicate.
So also thou have men who likewise adhere to the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
Repent therefore, and if not I come to thee quickly, and will war against them with the sword of my mouth.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the congregations. To him who overcomes, I will give him to eat of the hidden manna. And I will give him a white stone, and upon the stone a new name written, which none knows except he who receives it.
And to the agent of the congregation in Thyatira write, These things says the Son of God, who has his eyes as a flame of fire, and his feet resembling highly refined metal:
I know thy works, and thy love and faith and service and perseverance. And thy last works are more than the first.
Nevertheless, I have against thee that thou tolerate thy woman Jezebel. She calls herself a prophetess, and teaches and leads astray my bondmen to fornicate, and to eat idol sacrifices.
And I gave her time so that she would repent, and she did not want to repent of her fornication.
Behold, I throw her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, if they do not repent of her works.
And I will kill her children in death. And all the congregations will know that I am he who searches the inner feelings and hearts. And I will give to you-to each-according to your works.
But I say to you, to those remaining in Thyatira, as many as have not this teaching, who do not know, as they say, the deep things of Satan, I do not cast upon you another burden.
But hold firm what ye have until I come.
And he who overcomes, and he who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations.
And he will tend them with a rod of iron (they will be shattered like ceramic vessels), as I also have received from my Father.
And I will give him the morning star.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the congregations.