The word of Jehovah that was to Micah of Moresheth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw on Samaria and Jerusalem:
Let the peoples hear, all of them. Pay attention, O earth, and its fullness. And let the Lord Jehovah be a witness against you, the Lord from His holy temple.
For, behold, Jehovah is coming out of His place, and He will come down and walk on the high places of the earth.
And the mountains shall melt under Him, and the valleys shall cleave themselves, as wax before the fire, as waters poured out on a steep place.
All this is against the transgression of Jacob, and against the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what are the high places of Judah? Are they not Jerusalem?
And I will make Samaria into ruins of the field, planting places for a vineyard. And I will pour down her stones into the valley, and I will uncover her foundations.
And all her carved images shall be beaten to pieces, and all her gifts for harlotry shall be burned with fire. And I will make all her idols a desolation. For she gathered it from the reward of a harlot, and they shall return to the reward of a harlot.
Because of this I will wail and howl; I will go stripped and naked; I will make a wailing like the jackal, yea, mourn like the daughters of an ostrich.
For her wounds are incurable; for it has come to Judah; it has reached to the gate of my people, to Jerusalem.
Do not declare it in Gath; do not sorely weep. In the house of Leaphrah wallow in dust.
Pass over to them, O dweller of Shaphir, in nakedness of shame. The dweller of Zaanan has not gone out; the mourning of Bethezel shall take from you its place of standing.
For be grieved for good, the inhabitant of Maroth, for evil came down from Jehovah to the gate of Jerusalem.
Inhabitant of Lachish, tie the chariot to the stallion; she is the beginning of sin to the daughter of Zion, for the transgressions of Israel were found in you.
So you shall give parting gifts to Moresheth-gath. The houses of Achzib are for a lying thing to the kings of Israel.
I will bring an heir to you again, O dweller of Mareshah. The glory of Israel shall come to Adullam.
Make yourself bald, and cut off your hair for the sons of your delight. Make your baldness increase like the eagle, for they go into exile from you.