And Boaz went up to the gate and sat there. And, behold, the near kinsman of whom Boaz had spoken was passing by. And he said, Such a one, turn aside, sit down. And he turned aside and sat down.
And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit down here. And they sat down.
And he said to the near kinsman, Naomi, who has returned from the fields of Moab, will sell a portion of the field which belonged to our brother, to Elimelech.
And I said I would uncover your ear, saying, Buy it before those sitting, and before the elders of my people. If you will redeem, redeem. But if you will not redeem, tell me so that I may know. For there is no one besides you to redeem, and I after you. And he said, I will redeem it.
And Boaz said, In the day you buy the field from Naomi's hand, even you have bought from Ruth of Moab, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead over his inheritance.
And the near kinsman said, I am not able to redeem for myself, that I not mar my own inheritance. You redeem for yourself my right of redemption, for I am not able to redeem.
And this formerly was done in Israel for redemption, and for changing, to confirm every thing: A man would draw off his sandal and gave to his neighbor. And this was the attestation in Israel.
And the near kinsman said to Boaz, Buy for yourself, and drew off his sandal.
And Boaz said to the elders, and all the people, You are witnesses today that I have bought all that belonged to Elimelech, and all that was to Chilion and Mahlon, from the hand of Naomi.
And also Ruth of Moab, the wife of Mahlon, I have bought for myself for a wife, to raise up the name of the dead over his inheritance. And the name of the dead shall not be cut off from among his brothers, and from the gate of his place. You are witnesses today.
And all the people who were in the gate and the elders, said, We are witnesses. May Jehovah make the woman who is coming into your house to be as Rachel and as Leah, both of whom built the house of Israel. And may you do worthily in Ephratah, and proclaim the name in Bethlehem.
And let your house be as the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, of the seed which Jehovah shall give to you of this young woman.
And Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife. And he went in to her, and Jehovah gave her conception, and she bore a son.
And the women said to Naomi, Blessed be Jehovah, who has not left you this day without a redeemer; and may his name be called in Israel.
And may he be to you a restorer of life, and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law who loves you has borne him, who is better to you than seven sons.
And Naomi took the child, and laid him in her bosom, and became nurse to him.
And the neighboring women gave him a name, saying, This is a son born to Naomi; and they called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David.
And these are the generations of Pharez: Pharez fathered Hezron;
and Hezron fathered Ram; and Ram fathered Amminadab;
and Amminadab fathered Nahshon; and Nahshon fathered Salmon;
and Salmon fathered Boaz; and Boaz fathered Obed;
and Obed fathered Jesse; and Jesse fathered David.