WHEREFORE putting far away wickedness of every kind, and all deceit, and hypocrisies, and envyings, and all backbitings,
as new-born babes desire earnestly the unadulterated milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby:
if so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious.
Whom approaching, as the living stone, rejected indeed of men, but elect of God, and honourable,
ye also, as living stones, are built up, a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices, well pleasing to God through Jesus Christ.
Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, “Behold, I lay in Sion a cornerstone, elect, precious, and the believer on him shall never be confounded.”
By you therefore who believe is he honoured: but respecting the disobedient, “the stone which the builders rejected, this very stone is become the head of the corner,
and a stone of stumbling, and rock of offence,” to those who stumble at the word, disobedient; whereunto also they were appointed.
But ye are an elect race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people acquired by purchase; that ye should publish abroad the excellencies of him, who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light:
who in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God; who had not obtained mercy, but are now the objects of mercy.
Beloved, I exhort you, as strangers and sojourners, Abstain from carnal lusts, which war against the soul;
having your conduct ornamental among the Gentiles: that, whereas they malign you as wicked doers, they may, being eye-witnesses of your good works, glorify God in the day when he visits them.
Be subject therefore to every human constitution for the Lord’s sake; whether to a king as the supreme magistrate;
or to governors, as sent by him for the punishment of wicked doers, but the praise of those who do well.
For such is the will of God, that by well doing ye hold under restraint the ignorance of foolish men:
as free, yet not using liberty as a cloak for wicked practices; but as being servants of God.
Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.
Servants, be in subjection to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but even to the froward.
For this is gracious conduct, if for conscience towards God, any man undergo sorrows, suffering wrongfully.
For what glory would there be, if committing faults, and being buffeted, ye suffered patiently? but if, when ye behave well, yet suffer, ye bear it patiently, this is graciously accepted of God.
For hereunto have ye been called, because Christ also hath suffered for you, leaving you a pattern, that ye should follow his steps;
who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth:
who, when reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he used no menaces; but referred himself to him who judgeth righteously:
who himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead unto sins, might live unto righteousness; “by whose stripes, even his, ye were healed.”
For ye were as sheep wandering astray; but are now returned unto the pastor and bishop of your souls.