For I wish not ye should be ignorant, brethren, that, all our fathers, were, under the cloud, and, all, passed through the sea,—
And, all, immersed themselves into Moses, in the cloud, and in the sea;
And, all, did eat [the same] spiritual food,
And, all, drank, the same spiritual drink,—for they continued to drink of the spiritual rock that followed them, and, the rock, was the Christ:—
Nevertheless, with the most of them, God, was not well-pleased, for they were strewed along in the desert.
But, in these things, they became, ensamples for us, to the end we should not be covetous of evil things, even as, they, also coveted;
Neither become ye, idolaters, as some of them,—as it is written—The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to be making sport;
Neither let us commit fornication, as, some of them, committed fornication, and there fell, in one day, three and twenty thousand;
Neither let us be putting the Lord to the test, as, some of them, put him to the test, and, by the serpents, were perishing;
Neither be ye murmuring, even, as some of them, murmured, and perished by the destroyer.
But, these things, by way of type, were happening unto them, and were written with a view to our admonition, unto whom, the ends of the ages, have reached along.
So that, he that thinketh he is standing, let him take heed lest he fall.
Trial, hath not taken you, save such as man can bear; faithful, moreover is God, who will not suffer you to be tried above what ye are able, but will make, with the trial, also the way of escape, that ye may be able to hold out.
Wherefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry,—
As, to prudent men, I speak,—judge, ye, what I say:—
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not, a sharing together of the blood of the Christ? The loaf which we break, is it not, a sharing together of the body of the Christ?
Because, one loaf, one body, we, the many, are, for we, all, of the one loaf, partake.
Be looking at Israel after the flesh:—are not, they who eat the sacrifices, joint partakers with the altar?
What, then, am I saying?—that, an idol-sacrifice, is anything? or that, an idol, is anything?
On the contrary—that, the things which the nations sacrifice, unto demons, and not unto God, they sacrifice; and I wish not that ye should become, sharers together with the demons!
Ye cannot be drinking—a cup of the Lord, and a cup of demons; ye cannot be partaking of, a table of the Lord, and a table of demons.
Or are we to provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we mightier than he?
All things are allowable—but, not all things, are profitable,—all things are allowable—but, not all things, upbuild.
Let, no one, be seeking, what concerneth himself, but that which concerneth some one else.
Whatsoever, in the market, is sold, eat,—asking no question, for conscience sake;
For, unto the Lord, belongeth the earth, and the fullness thereof.
If one of them who believe not invite you, and ye are disposed to go, whatsoever is set before you, eat,—asking no question, for conscience sake.
But, if anyone should say unto you,—This, is, a holy sacrifice, do not eat, for that man’s sake who disclosed it, and for conscience sake:—
But, conscience, I mean, not thine own, but the other’s,—for why is my freedom to be judged by another’s conscience?
If, I, with gratitude, partake, why am I to be defamed, as to that for which, I, give thanks?
Whether, therefore, ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do, all things to the glory of God.
Give no occasion of stumbling—whether to Jews, or to Greeks, or to the assembly of God:
Even as, I also, in all things do please all, not seeking my own profit, but that of the many, that they may be saved.