[Like] channels of water, is the heart of a king, in the hand of Yahweh,—whithersoever he will, he turneth it.
Every way of a man, may be right in his own eyes, but, he that testeth hearts, is Yahweh.
To do righteousness and justice, is more choice to Yahweh than sacrifice.
Loftiness of eyes, and ambition of heart—the lamp of the lawless, are sin.
The plans of the diligent, tend only to abundance, but, of every one that is urgent, only to want.
The gaining of treasures with a tongue of falsehood, is a vapour driven away, [they who seek them] seek death,
The violence of the lawless, shall drag them away,—because they have refused to do justice.
Crooked is the way of a guilty man, but, as for the pure, straight is his dealing.
Better to dwell on the corner of the roof, than a quarrelsome wife, and a house in common.
The soul of the lawless man, craveth mischief, his own friend, findeth no favour in his eyes.
When the scoffer is punished, the simple, becometh wise, when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge.
The Righteous One observeth the house of the lawless,—He is ready to cast down lawless men into misfortune.
He that shutteth his ear from the cry of the poor, even he, shall call, and not be answered.
A gift in secret, quencheth anger, and, a present in the bosom, mighty wrath.
It is a joy, to a righteous man, to do justice, but, dismay, to the workers of iniquity.
The man who wandereth from the way of discretion, in the gathered host of the shades, shall settle down.
A needy man, shall he be that loveth merriment, the lover of wine and oil, shall not become rich.
A ransom for the righteous, is the lawless, and, instead of upright men, the traitor.
Better to dwell in a desert land, than with a woman, quarrelsome and provoking.
Desirable treasure and oil, are in the home of the wise, but, a man who is a dullard, will destroy it.
He that pursueth righteousness and lovingkindness, shall find life, righteousness and honour.
A city of heroes, doth a wise man scale, and bringeth down the strength of its confidence.
He that keepeth his mouth and his tongue, keepeth, out of distresses, his soul.
A haughty insolent one—Scoffer is his name, is he that acteth in a transport of pride.
The craving of the sluggard, killeth him, for his hands have refused to work.
All the day, he greatly craveth, whereas, the righteous, giveth, and doth not spare.
The sacrifice of the lawless, is an abomination, how much more, when, with wickedness, he bringeth it in!
A false witness, shall perish, but, the man who hearkeneth, with abiding effect, shall speak.
A lawless man emboldeneth his face, but, as for the upright, he, directeth his ways.
There is no wisdom, nor understanding, nor counsel, to confront Yahweh.
The horse, is prepared for the day of battle, but, to Yahweh, pertaineth the victory.