When I would have brought healing to Israel, then was disclosed the iniquity of Ephraim, and the wicked doings of Samaria, for they have wrought falsehood,—when, a thief, would enter, a band roamed about, outside,
And they say not to their own hearts, that, all their wickedness, I remember, now, have their doings, beset them about, right before my face, have they been done.
By their wickedness, they gladden a king, and, by their flatteries,—rulers.
They all, are adulterers, like an oven too hot for the baker,—who leaveth off stoking, after kneading the dough, till the whole be leavened.
In the day of our king, the rulers, have made themselves ill, with the heat of wine,—he hath extended his hand with scoffers.
For they have made ready, like an oven, their heart, by their lying in wait,—all the night, their baker sleepeth, in the morning, he, kindleth up as it were a blazing fire.
They all, become hot as an oven, and devour their judges,—all their kings, have fallen, there hath been none among them crying unto me.
As for Ephraim! with the peoples, hath he been mingling himself,—Ephraim, is a cake not turned.
Foreigners have, eaten up, his strength, and, he, knoweth it not,—even gray hairs, are sprinkled upon him, and, he, knoweth it not.
Therefore doth the Excellency of Israel, answer, to his face; yet have they not returned unto Yahweh their God, nor have they sought him, in spite of all this!
So then, Ephraim, hath become, like a simple dove, having no understanding, on Egypt, have they called, to Assyria, have they gone,
Whithersoever they go, I will spread over them my net, like a bird of the heavens, will I bring them down, I will chastise them, by the time the report can reach the flock of them.
Woe to them! for they have taken flight from me, destruction to them! for they have transgressed against me,—when, I, would have ransomed them, then, they, spake—concerning me—falsehoods.
Neither made they outcry unto me, in their heart, although they kept on howling upon their beds, over corn and new wine, they gathered themselves together, they rebelled against me.
When, I, had warned them, I strengthened their arm,—yet, against me, kept they on devising wickedness.
They would return—not to him who is on high! They have become like a deceitful bow, their rulers, shall fall by the sword, for the rage of their tongue, this, [shall be] their derision in the land of Egypt.