Let a man think of us as ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
And the rest, it is sought among stewards that one be found faithful.
But to me it is a small thing that I should be judged by you, or by a man's day. But neither do I judge myself.
For I know nothing of myself, but I have not been justified by this; but He judging me is the Lord.
Then do not judge anything before time, until the Lord comes, who will both shed light on the hidden things of darkness and will reveal the counsels of the hearts. And then praise will be to each one from God.
And, brothers, I transferred these things to myself and Apollos because of you, that in us you may learn not to think above what has been written, that you not be puffed up one over the other.
For who makes you to differ? And what do you have that you did not receive? And if you received it , why do you boast as if you did not receive?
You are already satisfied; you already became rich; you reigned without us (and oh that you really did reign, so that we also might reign with you!)
For I think that God set us out last, the apostles, as appointed to death, because we became a spectacle to the world, even to angels and to men.
We are fools for the sake of Christ, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are honored, but we not honored.
Until the present hour we also hunger and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and wander homeless,
and labor, working with our own hands. Being cursed, we bless; persecuted, we bear;
defamed, we entreat. we have become as filth of the world, dirt wiped off by all until now.
I do not write these things shaming you, but warning you as my beloved children.
For if you should have myriads of teachers in Christ, yet not many fathers; for I fathered you in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
Because of this, I urge you, be imitators of me.
Because of this I sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved child, and faithful in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in every church.
As to my not coming to you now, some were puffed up.
But if the Lord wills, I will come to you shortly. And I will not know the word of those who have been puffed up, but the power.
For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.
What do you desire? Shall I come to you with a rod, or in love and a spirit of meekness?