Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble.
He comes forth like a flower, and is cut down: he flees also as a shadow, and continues not.
And does you open your eyes upon such an one, and bring me into judgment with you?
Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.
Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with you, you have appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;
Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as a worker, his day.
For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground;
Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.
But man dies, and wastes away: yea, man gives up the spirit, and where is he?
As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decays and dries up:
So man lies down, and rises not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep.
O that you would hide me in the grave, that you would keep me secret, until your wrath be past, that you would appoint me a set time, and remember me!
If a man die, shall he live again? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.
You shall call, and I will answer you: you will have a desire to the work of your hands.
For now you number my steps: do you not watch over my sin?
My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and you sew up mine iniquity.
And surely the mountains falling comes to nothing, and the rock is removed out of his place.
The waters wear the stones: you wash away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth; and you destroys the hope of man.
You prevail for ever against him, and he passes: you change his countenance, and send him away.
His sons come to honour, and he knows it not; and they are brought low, but he perceives it not of them.
But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn.