And some were present at the same time reporting to Him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Do you suppose that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans because they suffered such things?
I tell you, No. But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.
Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them, do you think that they were sinners above all men who lived in Jerusalem?
I tell you, No. But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.
He also spoke this parable: A certain man had a fig-tree planted in his vineyard. And he came and sought fruit on it, and found none.
And he said to the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig-tree, and find none. Cut it down, why does it encumber the ground?
And answering, he said to him, Lord, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and throw manure.
And if it bears fruit, well; and if not, then after that you shall cut it down.
And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bowed together and was not able to be completely erect.
And when Jesus saw her, He called and said to her, Woman, you are delivered from your infirmity.
And He laid His hands on her. And instantly she was made erect, and she glorified God.
And answering, the synagogue ruler, being angry because Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, said to the crowd, There are six days in which it is right to work. Therefore in them come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.
And the Lord answered him and said, Hypocrite! Does not each one of you on the sabbath loosen his ox or ass from the stall and lead it away, to give it drink?
And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham whom Satan has bound, lo these eighteen years, be loosened from this bond on the Sabbath day?
And when He had said these things, all His adversaries were ashamed. And all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by Him.
And He said, What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it?
It is like a grain of mustard seed which a man took and threw into his garden. And it grew and became a great tree, and the birds of the air lodged in its branches.
And again He said, To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
It is like leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, until the whole was leavened.
And He went through the cities and villages, teaching and progressing toward Jerusalem.
And one said to Him, Lord, are the ones being saved few? And He said to them,
Strive to enter in at the narrow gate. For I say to you, many will seek to enter in and shall not be able.
And once the Master of the house has risen up and has shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us, and He shall answer and say to you, I do not know you; from where are you;
then you shall begin to say, We ate and drank in Your presence, and You have taught in our streets.
But He shall say, I tell you, I do not know you; from where you are. Depart from Me, all workers of unrighteousness!
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you will see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and yourselves being thrust out.
And they will come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and will recline in the kingdom of God.
And behold, there are last ones which will be first, and there are first ones which will be last.
The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying to Him, Go out and depart from here, for Herod will kill you.
And He said to them, You go and tell that fox, Behold, today and tomorrow, I cast out demons and I complete cures, and the third day I will be finished.
Yet I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following. For it cannot be that a prophet perish outside of Jerusalem.
Jerusalem! Jerusalem! the one killing the prophets, and stoning those having been sent to her; how often I desired to gather your children in the way a hen gathers her brood under the wings, and you did not desire  it.
Behold, your house is left to you desolate. And truly I say to you, You will not see Me until it come when you say, Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.