And it came to pass, while Apollos was at Corinth, that Paul, after passing through the upper districts, came to Ephesus, and finding certain disciples,
said to them: Have you received the Holy Spirit since you believed? They said to him: We have not only not received it, but we have not even heard whether the Holy Spirit is given.
And he said to them: Into what, then, were you immersed? They replied: Into John’s immersion.
And Paul said: John immersed with the immersion of repentance, saying to the people, that they must believe on him who should come after him, that is, on the Christ, Jesus.
And when they heard this, they were immersed into the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke with tongues, and prophesied.
And all the men were about twelve.
And he entered the synagogue, and spoke boldly, reasoning, and persuading them for three months, with respect to the things of the kingdom of God.
But as some were hardened, and did not believe, and spoke evil of that way before the multitude, he withdrew from them, and separated the disciples, and discoursed daily in the school of one Tyrannus.
This continued for two years; so that all that dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
Mighty deeds, also, that were unusual, did God perform by the hands of Paul;
so that handkerchiefs or aprons were carried from his body to the sick, and diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits came out of them.
And some of the roving Jews, who were exorcists, undertook to pronounce the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying: I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches.
And there were seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, who did this.
But the evil spirit answered and said: Jesus I acknowledge, and Paul I know; but who are you?
And the man in whom the evil spirit was, leaped on them, and overpowered them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled from that house, naked and wounded.
And this became known to all the Greeks and Jews that dwelt in Ephesus; and fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
And many of those who believed came and confessed, and made known their practices.
And many of those who practiced magic, brought together their books, and burned them, in the presence of all. And they computed their value, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.
So mightily did the word of the Lord grow and prevail.
When these things had been accomplished, Paul purposed in spirit to go to Jerusalem, after he should pass through Macedonia and Achaia, saying: After I have been there, I must see Rome also.
So, having sent into Macedonia two of those who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, he remained for a time in Asia.
And at that time there was no little excitement about that way.
For a certain man, named Demetrius, a silversmith, by making silver shrines for Diana, furnished no little trade to the artists.
These he called together, with the workmen employed about such things, and said: Men, you know that our wealth arises from this trade:
and you see and hear, that not only at Ephesus, but throughout almost the whole of Asia, this Paul, by his persuasions, has drawn away a great multitude, saying, that they which are made with hands are not gods.
Now there is danger, not only that this our calling will come into disgrace, but that the temple of the great goddess Diana will be despised, and that the majesty of her whom all Asia and the world worships, will be destroyed.
When they heard this, they were full of anger, and cried out, saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
And the whole city was filled with confusion. And they seized Gains and Aristarchus, who were Macedonians, Paul’s fellow-travelers, and, with one consent, rushed into the theater.
And when Paul wished to go in among the people, the disciples did not permit him.
Some of the Asiarchs also, who were friendly to him, sent to him, and besought him not to trust himself into the theater.
Some, therefore, were crying one thing, and some another: for the assembly was confused, and the greater part knew not for what they had come together.
And some of the multitude put Alexander forward, the Jews urging him on. And Alexander waved his hand, and wished to make a defense to the people.
But perceiving that he was a Jew, they all cried out, with one voice, for about two hours: Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
But the town-clerk quieted the multitude, and said: Men of Ephesus, what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is a worshiper of the great Diana, and of the image that fell down from Jupiter?
As these things, then, can not be contradicted, you ought to be quiet, and do nothing rashly.
For you have brought these men here, who are neither robbers of temples, nor revilers of your goddess.
Therefore, if Demetrius, and the artists who are with him, have a charge against any one, the courts are in session, and the proconsuls are there; let them accuse each other.
But if you have any inquiries to make about other matters, it shall be determined in a lawful assembly.
For we are in danger of being called to answer for this day’s tumult, since there is no cause by which we shall be able to account for this concourse.
And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.