A Psalm of Asaph. Truly God is good to Israel, to the pure of heart.
And I, my foot had almost stumbled; my steps had nearly slipped.
For I was jealous of the proud, when I saw the peace of the wicked.
For there are no bands in their death; but their strength is fat.
They are not in trouble like other men; neither are they plagued like other men.
Therefore pride enchains them; violence covers them like a robe.
Their eyes stand out with fatness; they have more than the heart could imagine.
They scoff and speak in malice of cruelty; from on high they speak.
They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walks through the earth.
Therefore His people return here, and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.
And they say, How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?
Behold, these are the ungodly, who are at ease in the world; they increase in riches.
Surely I have made my heart pure in vain, and washed my hands in innocence.
For all the day long I have been plagued, and chastened every morning.
If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I would deceive a generation of Your sons.
When I thought deeply in order to understand this, it was painful for me,
until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I understood their end.
Surely You set them in slippery places; You cast them down into ruin.
How have they been brought into grief, as in a moment! They are fully eaten up with terrors,
like a dream when one awakens; so, O LORD, when You awake, You shall despise their image.
For my heart was grieved and I was pricked in my reins.
So foolish was I, and I did not know; I was like a beast before You.
But I am always with You; You have held me by my right hand.
You shall lead me with Your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
Whom have I in Heaven? And besides You I desire none on earth.
My flesh and my heart fail; but God is the strength of my heart, and my part forever.
For lo, those who are far from You shall perish; You have destroyed all who go lusting away from You.
And I, it is good for me to draw near to God; I have put my trust in the LORD God, to declare all Your works.