And having looked up, he saw the rich casting their gifts into the treasury.
And he also saw a certain poor widow there casting in two mites.
And he said, Truly I say to you, that this poor widow cast in more than they all.
For all these cast into the offerings of God from their abundance, but this woman from her poverty cast in all the living that she had.
And as some spoke about the temple, that it was adorned with fine stones and gifts, he said,
These things that ye see, the days will come during which there will not be left a stone upon a stone that will not be thrown down.
And they questioned him, saying, Teacher, when therefore will these things be? And what is the sign when these things are going to happen?
And he said, Watch that ye may not be led astray, for many will come in my name, saying, I am, and, The time has come near. Go ye not therefore after them.
And when ye may hear of wars and tumults, do not be alarmed, for these things must first happen, but the end is not straightaway.
Then he said to them, Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
And great earthquakes will be in various places, and famines and plagues. And there will be fearful sights and great signs from the sky.
But before all these things, they will throw their hands on you, and will persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.
But it will go out from you for testimony.
Settle therefore in your hearts not to premeditate to make defense.
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom that all those who oppose you will not be able to contradict or to resist.
And ye will be betrayed even by parents, and kinsmen, and friends, and brothers. And some of you they will condemn to death.
And ye will be hated by all men because of my name.
And, no, not a hair of your head will perish.
In your perseverance ye gain your souls.
But when ye see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that the desolation of it has come near.
Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those in the midst of it depart out, and let not those in the rural areas enter into it.
Because these are days of vengeance to fulfill all things that are written.
But woe to those who have in the womb, and to those who suckle in those days. For there will be great distress upon the land, and wrath to this people.
And they will fall by the jaw of the sword, and will be led away captive into all the nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled down by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity, roaring of sea and of tossing,
fainting of men from fear, and of anticipation of the things coming upon the world, for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
And then they will see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and much glory.
And when these things begin to happen, stand upright, and lift up your heads, because your redemption approaches.
And he spoke a parable to them. Behold the fig tree, and all the trees.
When they are now sprouting, ye know seeing for yourselves that summer is now near.
Even so ye, when ye see these things happening, know ye that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I say to you, that this generation will, no, not pass away until all things happen.
The sky and the earth will pass away, but my words may, no, not pass away.
But take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts be weighed down in debauchery and drunkenness and mundane cares, and that day come upon you sudden.
For it will come like a trap upon all those who sit upon the face of all the earth.
Watch ye therefore, making supplication at all times, so that ye may be considered worthy to escape all these things going to happen, and to stand before the Son of man.
And during the days he was teaching in the temple, and going forth the nights, he lodged on the mount that is called Olives.
And all the people rose early in the morning to him in the temple to hear him.