And Pashur [the] priest, the son of Immer, who presided as prince in the house of the LORD, heard Jeremiah who prophesied these things.
Then Pashur smote Jeremiah the prophet and put him in the stocks that [were] at the gate of Benjamin on the high [place], which [is] in the house of the LORD.
And it came to pass on the morrow that Pashur brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then Jeremiah said unto him: The LORD has not called thy name Pashur, but Magormissabib.
For thus hath the LORD said, Behold, I will make thee a terror to thyself and to all those that love thee well; and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall behold [it]; and I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon and he shall carry them captive into Babylon, and shall smite them with the sword.
Moreover I will deliver all the strength of this city and all its labours and all its precious things and all the treasures of the kings of Judah I will give into the hand of their enemies, who shall spoil them and take them and carry them to Babylon.
And thou, Pashur, and all that dwell in thine house shall go into captivity; and thou shalt come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die and shalt be buried there, thou and all those who love thee well, unto whom thou hast prophesied with lies.
O LORD, thou hast seduced me, and I was seduced; thou wert stronger than I and hast overcome me; I am in derision daily; every one mocks me.
For since I spoke [out], I raised my voice crying, Violence and destruction; because the word of the LORD has been a reproach unto me and a derision, daily.
And I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in his name. But he was in my heart as a burning fire [and] within my bones; I tried to forbear, and I could not.
For I heard the murmuring of many, fear on every side, Report, and we will report it. All my friends watched to see if I would stumble. Peradventure he will deceive himself, they said, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall take our revenge on him.
But the LORD [is] with me as a powerful giant; therefore my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail: they shall be greatly ashamed; for they shall not prosper; they shall have everlasting confusion which shall never be forgotten.
O LORD of the hosts, who examines that which is just, who seest the kidneys and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them; for unto thee I have opened my cause.
Sing unto the LORD, praise ye the LORD; for he has delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.
Cursed [be] the day in which I was born; do not let the day in which my mother bore me be blessed.
Cursed [be] the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A man child is born unto thee; making him very glad.
And let that man be as the cities which the LORD overthrew and did not repent; and let him hear the cry in the morning and the shouting at noontide
because he did not slay me in the womb, and my mother would have been my grave, and her womb perpetual conception.
Why did I come forth out of the womb? To see labour and sorrow that my days should be consumed with shame?: