Jesus spoke these words, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said: Father, the hour has come: glorify thy Son, that thy Son may also glorify thee;
as thou hast given him authority over all flesh, that he may give eternal life to all that thou hast given him.
And this is life eternal, to know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou has sent.
I have glorified thee on the earth; I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do.
And now, Father, glorify me with thyself, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was.
I have made known thy name to the men that thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them, to me, and they have kept thy word.
Now they know that all things that thou hast given me are from thee;
for the words which thou gavest me I have given them; and they have received them, and they know surely that I came forth from thee, and they believe that thou didst send me.
I pray for them; I pray not for the world, but for them whom thou hast given me; for they are thine.
And all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them.
And I am no longer in the world; but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep in thy name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are one.
While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those whom thou gavest me, I have kept; and none of them is lost but the son of perdition, that the scripture may be fulfilled.
And now I come to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves.
I have given them thy word; and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
I do not pray thee to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the Evil One.
They are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them through thy truth; thy word is truth.
As thou hast sent me into the world, so I send them into the world;
and for them I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified through the truth.
I pray, not for these only, but for those also who shall believe on me through their word;
that they all may be one, as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.
And the glory which thou gavest me, I have given them, that they may be one, as we are one;
I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one, that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me.
Father, I wish that they also, whom thou hast given me, may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me; for thou didst love me before the foundation of the world.
Righteous Father, though the world has not known thee, yet I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me.
And I have made known to them thy name, and will continue to make it known, that the love with which thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.