And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face toward Gog, of the land of Magog, the ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him.
And say, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
And I will turn thee about, and put hooks into thy jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great company with buckler and shield, all of them handling swords,
Persia, Cush, and Put with them, all of them with shield and helmet,
Gomer, and all his hordes, the house of Togarmah in the outermost parts of the north, and all his hordes, even many peoples with thee.
Be thou prepared. Yea, prepare thyself, thou, and all thy companies that are assembled to thee, and be thou a guard to them.
After many days thou shall be visited. In the latter years thou shall come into the land that is brought back from the sword, that is gathered out of many peoples, upon the mountains of Israel, which have been a continual waste, but it is brought forth out of the peoples, and they shall dwell securely, all of them.
And thou shall ascend. Thou shall come like a storm. Thou shall be like a cloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy hordes, and many peoples with thee.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: It shall come to pass in that day, that things shall come into thy mind, and thou shall devise an evil plan.
And thou shall say, I will go up to the land of unwalled villages. I will go to those who are at rest, who dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars nor gates,
to take the spoil and to take the prey, to turn thy hand against the waste places that are now inhabited, and against the people who are gathered out of the nations, who have gotten cattle and goods, who dwell in the middle of the earth.
Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the young lions of it, shall say to thee, Have thou come to take the spoil? Have thou assembled thy company to take the prey, to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take great spoil?
Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, Thus says the lord Jehovah: In that day when my people Israel dwell securely, shall thou not know it?
And thou shall come from thy place out of the outermost parts of the north, thou, and many peoples with thee, all of them riding upon horses, a great company and a mighty army.
And thou shall come up against my people Israel, as a cloud to cover the land. It shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bring thee against my land, that the nations may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: Are thou he of whom I spoke in old time by my servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days for many years that I would bring thee against them?
And it shall come to pass in that day, when Gog shall come against the land of Israel, says the lord Jehovah, that my wrath shall come up into my nostrils.
For I have spoken in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath. Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel,
so that the fishes of the sea, and the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep upon the earth, and all the men who are upon the face of the earth, shall shake at my presence. And the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.
And I will call for a sword against him to all my mountains, says the lord Jehovah. Every man's sword shall be against his brother.
And I will enter into judgment with him with pestilence and with blood. And I will rain upon him, and upon his hordes, and upon the many peoples who are with him, an overflowing shower, and great hailstones, fire, and brimstone.
And I will magnify myself, and sanctify myself, and I will make myself known in the eyes of many nations. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.