A soft answer turneth away wrath; But harsh words stir up anger.
The tongue of the wise maketh knowledge pleasing; But the mouth of fools poureth forth folly.
The eyes of the LORD are in every place; They behold the evil and the good.
A mild tongue is a tree of life; But perverseness therein is a wound in the spirit.
The fool despiseth the correction of his father; But he that regardeth reproof is prudent.
In the house of the righteous is much wealth; But in the revenues of the wicked there is trouble.
The lips of the wise spread abroad knowledge; But the heart of the foolish is not sound.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD; But the prayer of the righteous is his delight.
The way of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD; But him who followeth after righteousness he loveth.
Sore chastisement shall be to him that forsaketh the way; He that hateth reproof shall die.
The underworld, yea, the region of death, is before the LORD; How much more the hearts of the sons of men!
The scoffer loveth not his reprover; He will not resort to the wise.
A joyous heart maketh a bright countenance; But by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.
The heart of the man of understanding seeketh knowledge; But the mouth of fools feedeth on folly.
The days of the afflicted are all evil; But he that hath a cheerful heart hath a continual feast.
Better is a little, with the fear of the LORD, Than much treasure, and trouble therewith.
Better is a dinner of herbs, where there is love, Than a fatted ox, and hatred therewith.
The passionate man stirreth up strife; But he who is slow to anger appeaseth strife.
The way of the slothful is as a hedge of thorns; But the way of the righteous is a highway.
A wise son maketh a glad father; But a foolish man despiseth his mother.
Folly is joy to him who lacketh wisdom; But the man of understanding walketh uprightly.
Without counsel, plans come to nought; But with a multitude of counsellors they are established.
A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth; And a word in due season, how good it is!
The path of life is upward for the wise, So that he turneth away from the underworld beneath.
The LORD destroyeth the house of the proud; But he will establish the border of the widow.
Evil devices are an abomination to the LORD; But pleasant words are pure.
He who is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; But he who hateth bribes shall live.
The heart of the righteous meditateth on his answer; But the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
The LORD is far from the wicked: But he heareth the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart, And good tidings make the bones fat.
The ear that hearkeneth to the reproof of life Shall dwell among the wise.
He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own life; But he that hearkeneth to rebuke getteth understanding.
The fear of the LORD guideth to wisdom, And before honor is humility.