Blessed are those who are perfect in the way, who walk in the law of Jehovah.
Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, that seek him with the whole heart.
Yea, they do no unrighteousness. They walk in his ways.
Thou have commanded thy precepts, that we should observe them diligently.
O that my ways were established to observe thy statutes!
Then I shall not be put to shame when I have respect for all thy commandments.
I will give thanks to thee with uprightness of heart when I learn thy righteous judgments.
I will observe thy statutes. O forsake me not utterly.
With what shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to thy word.
With my whole heart I have sought thee. O let me not wander from thy commandments.
I have laid thy word up in my heart that I might not sin against thee.
Blessed are thou, O Jehovah. Teach me thy statutes.
With my lips I have declared all the ordinances of thy mouth.
I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches.
I will meditate on thy precepts, and have respect for thy ways.
I will delight myself in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word.
Deal bountifully with thy servant that I may live, so I will observe thy word.
Open thou my eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law.
I am a sojourner in the earth. Hide not thy commandments from me.
My soul breaks for the longing that it has to thine ordinances at all times.
Thou have rebuked the proud, who are cursed, who wander from thy commandments.
Take away from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept thy testimonies.
Rulers also sat and talked against me, but thy servant meditated on thy statutes.
Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors.
My soul clings to the dust. Enliven thou me according to thy word.
I declared my ways, and thou answered me. Teach me thy statutes.
Make me to understand the way of thy precepts, so I shall meditate on thy wondrous works.
My soul melts for heaviness. Strengthen thou me according to thy word.
Remove from me the way of falsehood, and grant me thy law graciously.
I have chosen the way of faithfulness. I have set thine ordinances.
I cling to thy testimonies. O Jehovah, put me not to shame.
I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shall enlarge my heart.
Teach me, O Jehovah, the way of thy statutes, and I shall keep it to the end.
Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law, yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart.
Make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight.
Incline my heart to thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.
Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity, and enliven me in thy ways.
Confirm to thy servant thy word, which is for the fear of thee.
Turn away my reproach of which I am afraid, for thine ordinances are good.
Behold, I have longed after thy precepts. Enliven me in thy righteousness.
Let thy loving kindnesses also come to me, O Jehovah, even thy salvation, according to thy word.
So I shall have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in thy word.
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for I have hoped in thine ordinances.
So shall I observe thy law continually forever and ever.
And I shall walk at liberty, for I have sought thy precepts.
I also will speak of thy testimonies before kings, and shall not be put to shame.
And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.
I will also lift up my hands to thy commandments, which I have loved, and I will meditate on thy statutes.
Remember the word to thy servant, because thou have made me to hope.
This is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word has revived me.
The proud have had me greatly in derision, yet I have not swerved from thy law.
I have remembered thine ordinances of old, O Jehovah, and have comforted myself.
Hot indignation has taken hold upon me because of the wicked who forsake thy law.
Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
I have remembered thy name, O Jehovah, in the night, and have observed thy law.
This I have had because I have kept thy precepts.
Jehovah is my portion; I have said that I would observe thy words.
I entreated thy favor with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to thy word.
I thought on my ways, and turned my feet to thy testimonies.
I made haste, and delayed not, to observe thy commandments.
The cords of the wicked have wrapped me around, but I have not forgotten thy law.
At midnight I will rise to give thanks to thee because of thy righteous ordinances.
I am a companion of all those who fear thee, and of those who observe thy precepts.
The earth, O Jehovah, is full of thy loving kindness. Teach me thy statutes.
Thou have dealt well with thy servant, O Jehovah, according to thy word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I have believed in thy commandments.
Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I observe thy word.
Thou are good, and do good. Teach me thy statutes.
The proud have forged a lie against me. With my whole heart I will keep thy precepts.
Their heart is as fat as grease, but I delight in thy law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn thy statutes.
The law of thy mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver.
Thy hands have made me and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn thy commandments.
Those who fear thee shall see me and be glad, because I have hoped in thy word.
I know, O Jehovah, that thy judgments are righteous, and that in faithfulness thou have afflicted me.
Let, I pray thee, thy loving kindness be for my comfort according to thy word to thy servant.
Let thy tender mercies come to me that I may live, for thy law is my delight.
Let the proud be put to shame, for they have overthrown me wrongfully. I will meditate on thy precepts.
Let those who fear thee turn to me, and they shall know thy testimonies.
Let my heart be perfect in thy statutes that I be not put to shame.
My soul faints for thy salvation. I hope in thy word.
My eyes fail for thy word, while I say, When will thou comfort me?
For I have become like a wine-skin in the smoke. Yet I do not forget thy statutes.
How many are the days of thy servant? When will thou execute judgment on those who persecute me?
The proud have dug pits for me, who are not according to thy law.
All thy commandments are faithful. They persecute me wrongfully. Help thou me.
They had almost consumed me upon earth, but I did not forsake thy precepts.
Revive me according to thy loving kindness, so I shall observe the testimony of thy mouth.
Forever, O Jehovah, thy word is settled in heaven.
Thy faithfulness is to all generations. Thou have established the earth, and it abides.
They abide this day according to thine ordinances, for all things are thy servants.
Unless thy law had been my delight, I should then have perished in my affliction.
I will never forget thy precepts, for with them thou have enlivened me.
I am thine. Save me, for I have sought thy precepts.
The wicked have waited for me, to destroy me. I will consider thy testimonies.
I have seen an end of all perfection. Thy commandment is exceedingly broad.
O how I love thy law! It is my meditation all the day.
Thy commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers, for thy testimonies are my meditation.
I understand more than the aged because I have kept thy precepts.
I have restrained my feet from every evil way, that I might observe thy word.
I have not turned aside from thine ordinances, for thou have taught me.
How sweet are thy words to my taste, than honey to my mouth!
Through thy precepts I get understanding. Therefore I hate every false way.
Thy word is a lamp to my feet, and light to my path.
I have sworn, and have confirmed it, that I will observe thy righteous ordinances.
I am afflicted very much. Revive me, O Jehovah, according to thy word.
Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Jehovah, and teach me thine ordinances.
My soul is continually in my hand, yet I do not forget thy law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I have not gone astray from thy precepts.
I have taken thy testimonies as a heritage forever, for they are the rejoicing of my heart.
I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes forever, even to the end.
I hate those who are of a double mind, but I love thy law.
Thou are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in thy word.
Depart from me, ye evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to thy word, that I may live, and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe, and shall have respect for thy statutes continually.
Thou have set at nothing all those who err from thy statutes, for their deceit is falsehood.
Thou put away all the wicked of the earth like dross. Therefore I love thy testimonies.
My flesh trembles for fear of thee, and I am afraid of thy judgments.
I have done justice and righteousness. Leave me not to my oppressors.
Be surety for thy servant for good. Let not the proud oppress me.
My eyes fail for thy salvation, and for thy righteous word.
Deal with thy servant according to thy loving kindness, and teach me thy statutes.
I am thy servant. Give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.
It is time for Jehovah to work. They have made void thy law.
Therefore I love thy commandments above gold, yea, above fine gold.
Therefore I esteem all precepts concerning all things to be right. I hate every false way.
Thy testimonies are wonderful, therefore my soul keeps them.
The opening of thy words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple.
I opened wide my mouth, and panted, for I longed for thy commandments.
Turn thee to me, and have mercy upon me, as thou used to do to those who love thy name.
Establish my footsteps in thy word, and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.
Redeem me from the oppression of man, so I will observe thy precepts.
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant, and teach me thy statutes.
Streams of water run down my eyes, because they do not observe thy law.
Thou are righteous, O Jehovah, and upright are thy judgments.
Thou have commanded thy testimonies in righteousness and exceeding faithfulness.
My zeal has consumed me, because my adversaries have forgotten thy words.
Thy word is very pure, therefore thy servant loves it.
I am small and despised. I do not forget thy precepts.
Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me. Thy commandments are my delight.
Thy testimonies are righteous forever. Give me understanding, and I shall live.
I have called with my whole heart. Answer me, O Jehovah. I will keep thy statutes.
I have called to thee. Save me, and I shall observe thy testimonies.
I anticipated the dawning of the morning, and cried. I hoped in thy words.
My eyes anticipated the night-watches that I might meditate on thy word.
Hear my voice according to thy loving kindness. Enliven me, O Jehovah, according to thine ordinances.
They draw near who follow after wickedness. They are far from thy law.
Thou are near, O Jehovah, and all thy commandments are truth.
Of old I have known from thy testimonies that thou have founded them forever.
Consider my affliction, and deliver me, for I do not forget thy law.
Plead thou my cause, and redeem me. Enliven me according to thy word.
Salvation is far from the wicked, for they seek not thy statutes.
Great are thy tender mercies, O Jehovah. Enliven me according to thine ordinances.
Many are my persecutors and my adversaries. I have not swerved from thy testimonies.
I beheld the treacherous, and was grieved because they do not observe thy word.
Consider how I love thy precepts. Enliven me, O Jehovah, according to thy loving kindness.
The sum of thy word is truth, and every one of thy righteous ordinances is forever.
Rulers have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart stands in awe of thy words.
I rejoice at thy word, as he who finds great spoil.
I hate and abhor falsehood. I love thy law.
Seven times a day I praise thee because of thy righteous ordinances.
Great peace have those who love thy law, and they have no occasion of stumbling.
I have hoped for thy salvation, O Jehovah, and have done thy commandments.
My soul has observed thy testimonies, and I love them exceedingly.
I have observed thy precepts and thy testimonies, for all my ways are before thee.
Let my cry come near before thee, O Jehovah. Give me understanding according to thy word.
Let my supplication come before thee. Deliver me according to thy word.
Let my lips utter praise, for thou teach me thy statutes.
Let my tongue sing of thy word, for all thy commandments are righteousness.
Let thy hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen thy precepts.
I have longed for thy salvation, O Jehovah, and thy law is my delight.
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee. And let thine ordinances help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek thy servant, for I do not forget thy commandments.