Concerning the sons of Ammon. Thus says Jehovah: Has Israel no sons? Has he no heir? Why then does Malcam possess Gad, and his people dwell in the cities thereof?
Therefore, behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, and it shall become a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire. Then Israel shall possess those who possessed him, says Jehovah.
Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste. Cry, ye daughters of Rabbah. Gird you with sackcloth. Lament, and run to and fro among the fences. For Malcam shall go into captivity, his priests and his rulers together.
Why do thou glory in the valleys, thy flowing valley? O backsliding daughter, who trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shall come to me?
Behold, I will bring a fear upon thee, says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, from all who are round about thee. And ye shall be driven out every man straight forth, and there shall be none to gather together the fugitives.
But afterward I will bring back the captivity of the sons of Ammon, says Jehovah.
Of Edom. Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Is wisdom no more in Teman? Has counsel perished from the prudent? Has their wisdom vanished?
Flee ye, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan. For I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time that I shall visit him.
If grape-gatherers came to thee, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? If thieves by night, would they not destroy till they had enough?
But I have made Esau bare. I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself. His seed is destroyed, and his brothers, and his neighbors, and he is not.
Leave thy fatherless sons; I will preserve them alive. And let thy widows trust in me.
For thus says Jehovah: Behold, those to whom it did not pertain to drink of the cup shall assuredly drink. And are thou he who shall go altogether unpunished? Thou shall not go unpunished, but thou shall surely drink.
For I have sworn by myself, says Jehovah, that Bozrah shall become an astonishment, a reproach, a waste, and a curse, and all the cities thereof shall be perpetual wastes.
I have heard news from Jehovah. And an ambassador is sent among the nations, saying, Gather yourselves together, and come against her, and rise up to the battle.
For, behold, I have made thee small among the nations, and despised among men.
As for thy formidableness, the pride of thy heart has deceived thee, O thou who dwells in the clefts of the rock, who holds the height of the hill. Though thou should make thy nest as high as the eagle, I will bring thee down from there, says Jehovah.
And Edom shall become an astonishment. Everyone who passes by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues of it.
As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities thereof, says Jehovah, no man shall dwell there, nor shall any son of man sojourn in it.
Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation. For I will suddenly make them run away from it. And he who is chosen, him I will appoint over it. For who is like me, and who will appoint a time for me, and who is the shepherd who will stand before me?
Therefore hear ye the counsel of Jehovah that he has taken against Edom, and his purposes, that he has purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall drag them away, even the little ones of the flock. Surely he shall make their habitation desolate over them.
The earth trembles at the noise of their fall. There is a cry; the noise of it is heard in the Red Sea.
Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread out his wings against Bozrah. And the heart of the mighty men of Edom at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
Of Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad, for they have heard evil news. They are melted away. There is sorrow on the sea; it cannot be quiet.
Damascus has grown feeble. She turns herself to flee, and trembling has seized on her. Anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in travail.
How is the city of praise not forsaken, the city of my joy?
Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, says Jehovah of hosts.
And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.
Of Kedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote. Thus says Jehovah: Arise ye. Go up to Kedar, and destroy the sons of the east.
They shall take their tents and their flocks. They shall carry away for themselves their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels. And they shall cry to them, Terror on every side!
Flee ye. Wander far off. Dwell in the depths, O ye inhabitants of Hazor, says Jehovah. For Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon has taken counsel against you, and has conceived a purpose against you.
Arise, get you up to a nation that is at ease, that dwells without worry, says Jehovah, that has neither gates nor bars, that dwells alone.
And their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of their cattle a spoil. And I will scatter to all winds those who have the corners of their hair cut off. And I will bring their calamity from every side of them, says Jehovah.
And Hazor shall be a dwelling-place of jackals, a desolation forever. No man shall dwell there, nor shall any son of man sojourn therein.
The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.
And upon Elam I will bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds. And there shall be no nation where the outcasts of Elam shall not come.
And I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, and before those who seek their life. And I will bring evil upon them, even my fierce anger, says Jehovah. And I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them.
And I will set my throne in Elam, and will destroy from there king and rulers, says Jehovah.
But it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bring back the captivity of Elam, says Jehovah.