And Yahweh spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying:
This, is the statute of the law, which Yahweh hath commanded, saying,—Speak unto the sons of Israel—That they bring unto thee a red heifer, without defect wherein is no blemish, and whereupon hath come no yoke.
Then shall ye give her unto Eleazar the priest, and he shall take her forth unto the outside of the camp, and she shall be slain before him;
and Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger,—and shall sprinkle towards the front of the tent of meeting: of her blood, seven times;
and the heifer shall be burned up before his eyes,—her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung shall be burned up.
Then shall the priest take cedar-wood and hyssop and crimson,—and cast into the midst of the burning up of the heifer.
And the priest shall wash his clothes and bathe his flesh in water, and afterwards come into the camp,—but the priest shall be unclean until the evening,
And, he that burneth her, shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water,—and be unclean until the evening,
Then shall a man that is clean gather up the ashes of the heifer, and put them by, outside the camp, in a clean place,—so shall they be for the assembly of the sons of Israel to keep for water of separation it is a taking away of sin.
Then shall he that gathered up the ashes wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening,—so shall it be for the sons of Israel and for the sojourner that sojourneth in your midst by a statute age-abiding.
He that toucheth the dead, even any human person, shall be unclean seven days.
He, shall cleanse himself from sin therewith on the third day, then on the seventh day, shall he be clean,—but if he cleanse not himself from sin on the third day, then on the seventh day, shall he not be clean,
Whosoever toucheth the dead the person of the human being that dieth and doth not cleanse himself from sin, the habitation of Yahweh, hath he made unclean; that person therefore shall be cut off out of Israel,—because, the water of separation, was not dashed upon him, unclean, shall he be, his uncleanness is yet upon him.
This, is the law—When, a human being, shall die in a tent, every one who goeth into the tent and every one who is in the tent shall be unclean seven days.
And, in the case of every open vessel, on which no cover is fastened, unclean, it is.
And, whosoever toucheth on the face of the field, one slain with a sword, or one who hath died, or a human bone or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
And they shall take, for him that is unclean, of the ashes of the burning of the sin-bearer,—and living water shall be put thereon in a vessel,
Then shall a man that is clean take hyssop, and dip in the water, and sprinkle upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the persons who were there,—and upon him that touched the bone or him who had been slain, or him who had died of himself or the grave;
and the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean, on the third day, and on the seventh day,—so shall he cleanse himself from sin, on the seventh day, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water and be clean in the evening.
But in the case of the man who shall be unclean and shall not cleanse himself from sin, that person shall be cut off, out of the midst of the convocation,—for, the sanctuary of Yahweh, hath he made unclean, the water of separation, hath not been dashed upon him unclean, he is.
So shall it be unto them for statute age-abiding,—and, he that sprinkleth the water of separation, shall wash his clothes, and he that toucheth the water of separation shall be unclean until the evening;
and, whatsoever the unclean person toucheth, shall be unclean,—and the person who toucheth it shall be unclean until the evening.