The ordering of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the LORD.
All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the spirits.
Roll your works upon the LORD, and your thoughts shall be established.
The LORD has made all for His purpose; yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
Everyone proud in heart is hateful to the LORD; though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished.
By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the LORD men turn away from evil.
When a man's ways please the LORD, He makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Better is a little with righteousness than great gain without right.
A man's heart plans his way, but the LORD directs his steps.
A divine sentence is in the lips of the king; his mouth does not transgress in judgment.
A just weight and balance are the LORD's; all the weights of the bag are His work.
It is a hateful thing for kings to commit wickedness; for the throne is established by righteousness.
Righteous lips are the delight of kings, and they love him who speaks right.
The wrath of a king is as messengers of death, but a wise man will quiet it.
In the light of the king's face is life, and his favor is like a cloud of the latter rain.
How much better it is to get wisdom than gold! And to get understanding is rather to be chosen than silver!
The way of the upright is to turn away from evil; he who keeps his way guards his way.
Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
It is better to be of an humble spirit with the lowly than to divide the spoil with the proud.
He who handles a matter wisely shall find good, and whoever trusts in the LORD, happy is he.
The wise in heart shall be called prudent, and the sweetness of the lips increases learning.
Understanding is a fountain of life to him who has it, but the instruction of fools is folly.
The heart of the wise teaches his mouth, and adds learning to his lips.
Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
There is a way that seems right to a man, but the end of it is the ways of death.
He who labors works for himself, for his mouth craves it from him.
An ungodly man plots evil, and his lips are like a burning fire.
A perverse man causes fighting, and a whisperer separates chief friends.
A violent man lures his neighbor and makes him go in a way not good.
He shuts his eyes to think of perverse things; moving his lips, he brings evil to pass.
The gray head is a crown of glory, if it is found in the way of righteousness.
He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit is better than he who takes a city.
The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing of it is from the LORD.