The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
Son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Because thy heart is lifted up, and thou have said, I am a god. I sit in the seat of God, in the midst of the seas. Yet thou are man, and not God, though thou did set thy heart as the heart of God.
Behold, thou are wiser than Daniel. There is no secret that is hidden from thee.
By thy wisdom and by thine understanding thou have gotten thee riches, and have gotten gold and silver into thy treasures.
By thy great wisdom and by thy traffic thou have increased thy riches. And thy heart is lifted up because of thy riches.
Therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Because thou have set thy heart as the heart of God,
therefore, behold, I will bring strangers upon thee, the terrible of the nations, and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defile thy brightness.
They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou shall die the death of those who are slain, in the heart of the seas.
Will thou yet say before him who slays thee, I am God? But thou are man, and not God, in the hand of him who wounds thee.
Thou shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers. For I have spoken it, says the lord Jehovah.
Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, take up a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Thou seal up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.
Thou were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was thy covering, the sardius, the topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold. The workmanship of thy tambourine and of thy pipes was in thee. In the day that thou were created they were prepared.
Thou were the anointed cherub who covers. And I set thee, so that thou were upon the holy mountain of God. Thou have walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.
Thou were perfect in thy ways from the day that thou were created, till unrighteousness was found in thee.
By the abundance of thy commerce they filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou have sinned. Therefore I have cast thee out of the mountain of God as profane, and I have destroyed thee, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
Thy heart was lifted up because of thy beauty. Thou have corrupted thy wisdom because of thy brightness. I have cast thee to the ground. I have laid thee before kings, that they may behold thee.
By the multitude of thine iniquities, in the unrighteousness of thy commerce, thou have profaned thy sanctuaries. Therefore I have brought forth a fire from the midst of thee. It has devoured thee, and I have turned thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all those who behold thee.
All those who know thee among the peoples shall be astonished at thee. Thou have become a horror, and thou shall nevermore have any being.
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,
and say, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Sidon. And I will be glorified in the midst of thee. And they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be sanctified in her.
For I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets. And the wounded shall fall in the midst of her, with the sword upon her on every side. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
And there shall no more be a pricking brier to the house of Israel, nor a hurting thorn of any who are round about them, who did spite to them. And they shall know that I am the lord Jehovah.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and shall be sanctified in them in the sight of the nations, then they shall dwell in their own land which I gave to my servant Jacob.
And they shall dwell securely therein. Yea, they shall build houses, and plant vineyards, and shall dwell securely, when I have executed judgments upon all those who do them spite round about them. And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God.