Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy the brother, to Philemon our beloved and co-workman,
and to the beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the congregation at thy house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God, making recollection of thee always in my prayers,
hearing of thy love and faith, which thou have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the sanctified,
so that the fellowship of thy faith may become potent (in the knowledge of every good thing in us) for Christ Jesus.
For we have much joy and encouragement in thy love, because the bowels of the sanctified have been refreshed by thee, brother.
Therefore, though I have much boldness in Christ to command thee that which is befitting,
because of love I rather beseech, being such as aged Paul, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
I beseech thee for my child Onesimus, whom I begot in my bonds.
A man formerly unprofitable to thee, but now is profitable to thee and to me, whom I sent back.
And thou should welcome him, that is, my bowels.
Whom I wanted to keep back for myself, so that in thy behalf he might serve me in the bonds of the good news.
But I wanted to do nothing without thy mind, so that thy goodness might not be as from obligation, but from volition.
For perhaps because of this he departed for an hour, so that thou might receive him back forever,
no longer as a bondman, but above a bondman, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to thee, both in flesh and in the Lord.
If then thou have me a partner, accept him as myself.
But if he has wronged thee, or owes anything, charge this to me.
I Paul write with my hand, I will repay, so that I may not say to thee that thou owe me in return even thyself.
Yes, brother, let me have a favor of thee in the Lord. Refresh my bowels in the Lord.
Being confident in thine obedience I wrote to thee, knowing that thou will do above what I say.
But simultaneously also prepare a lodging for me, for I hope that by your prayers I will be granted to you.
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, salutes thee,
and Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my co-workmen.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with your spirit. Truly.