And Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
Can a man be useful to God? For can a wise man be useful to himself?
Is it any pleasure to the Almighty that you are righteous? Or is it gain to Him that you make your ways perfect?
Will He reprove you because of your reverence, or enter into judgment with you?
Is not your wickedness great, and is there no end to your iniquities?
For you have taken a pledge from your brother for nothing, and you have stripped the naked of their clothing.
You have not given water to the faint to drink, and you withheld food from the hungry.
And the earth is to him, to the armed man; and the honored one lives in it.
You have sent widows away empty, and have crushed the arms of orphans.
On account of this snares are all around you, and suddenly dread troubles you;
or darkness, so that you cannot see, and a flood of waters covers you.
Is not God high in Heaven? Also behold the leading stars, for they are high.
And you say, What does God know? Can He judge through the dark cloud?
Clouds are a covering for Him, and He does not see; and He walks the circuit of the heavens.
Do you keep to the old way which evil men have trod?
They were seized, but there was not time; their foundation was poured out by a flood;
who said to God, Depart from us; and, What can the Almighty do to them?
Yet He filled their houses with substance; and the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
The righteous see it and are glad; and the innocent scornfully laugh;
truly our adversary is not cut down, and fire has eaten their wealth.
Now be of service with Him, and be at peace; good shall come to you by them.
Now receive the law from His mouth and put His words in your heart.
If you return to the Almighty, you shall be built up; you shall put injustice far from your tents.
Then you shall lay gold on the dust, even among the rocks of the torrents of Ophir.
Yea, the Almighty shall be your gold and silver, a tower to you,
for then you will delight over the Almighty, and you will lift up your face to God.
You shall make your prayer to Him, and He will hear you; and you shall pay your vows.
You shall also decide a thing, and it will stand for you; and light shall shine on your ways.
For they have humiliated you ; and you shall say, Pride! And He shall save the lowly of eyes.
He shall deliver one not innocent and will deliver by the cleanness of your hands.