And it came to pass in Iconium according to the same thing, for them to enter into the synagogue of the Jews, and to speak so as for a great quantity to believe, both of Jews and of Greeks.
But the disobedient Jews aroused the souls of the Gentiles, and made them evil against the brothers.
Indeed therefore they remained a considerable time speaking boldly in the Lord-him testifying to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to occur by their hands.
But the majority of the city was divided, and verily there were those with the Jews, and those with the apostles.
And as a violent movement developed, both of the Gentiles and of the Jews, with their rulers, to denounce and to stone them,
having become aware of it, they fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra, and Derbe, and the neighboring region.
And there they were preaching the good news.
And a certain man was sitting in Lystra, disabled in his feet, being a cripple from his mother's belly, who had never walked.
This man was listening to Paul speaking, who, having gazed at him, and having seen that he has faith to be healed,
said with a great voice, Stand correctly on thy feet. And he leaped up and walked.
And the multitudes who saw what Paul did, lifted up their voice, speaking Lycaonian, The gods came down to us, having become like men.
And they actually called Barnabas, Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the man who led the word.
And the priest of Zeus, being in front of their city, after bringing oxen and garlands to the gates, wanted to sacrifice with the multitudes.
But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard, having torn their garments, they rushed into the crowd, crying out
and saying, Men, why are ye doing these things? We also are men of like nature with you, proclaiming good news to you, to turn from these vain things to the living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all the things in them,
who in the generations that have passed allowed all the nations to go in their own ways,
although he did not leave himself without evidence, doing good and giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts of food and gladness.
And saying these things, they scarcely restrained the multitudes not to sacrifice to them.
But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium. And having persuaded the crowds, and having stoned Paul, they dragged him out of the city, after presuming him to be dead.
But the disciples having surrounded him, after rising, he came into the city. And on the morrow he departed with Barnabas to Derbe.
And having preached the good news to that city, and having made considerable disciples, they returned to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antioch,
strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that it was necessary for us to enter into the kingdom of God through many tribulations.
And having appointed elders for them in every congregation, having prayed with fasting, they entrusted them to the Lord, in whom they had believed.
And after passing through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
And when they spoke the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia,
and from there they sailed to Antioch, from where they were delivered to the grace of God for the work that they fulfilled.
And after arriving, and after gathering the assembly together, they reported as many things as God did with them, and that he opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.
And they remained there no little time with the disciples.