Brethren and fathers! Hear ye, the defence, which I now make unto you:—
And, when they heard that, in the Hebrew language, he had begun to address them, they kept the more quiet. And he saith—
I, am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but nurtured in this city, at the feet of Gamaliel,—trained after the strictness of our ancestral law; being jealous for God just as, all ye, are this day;
and, this way, I persecuted unto the death, binding and delivering up into prisons both men and women:—
as, even the High-priest, beareth me witness, and all the Eldership,—from whom, letters also, accepting to the brethren, unto Damascus, was I journeying, to bring them who were there bound unto Jerusalem, that they might be punished.
But it befell me, as I was journeying and drawing nigh unto Damascus, that, about mid-day—suddenly—out of heaven, there flashed a great light all around me;
I fell also to the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me—Saul! Saul! Why, me, art thou persecuting?
And, I, answered—Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me—I, am Jesus the Nazarene, whom, thou, art persecuting!
Now, they who were with me, beheld, indeed, the light, but heard not, the voice, of him that was speaking with me
And said—What shall I do, Lord? And, the Lord, said unto me—Arise, and be going thy way into Damascus, and, there, shall it be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do.
But, as I could not see clearly owing to the glory of that light, being led by the hand of them who were with me, I came into Damascus.
And, one Ananias, a man devout according to the law, well-attested by all the Jews that dwelt there,
coming unto me, and standing over me, said—Saul, brother! look up. And, I, in that very hour, looked up on him.
And he said—The God of our fathers, hath chosen thee to get to know his will, and to see the Righteous One,—and to hear a voice out of his mouth.
Because thou shalt be a witness to him unto all men, of the things which thou hast seen and heard.
And, now, what art thou going to do? Arise, and get thyself immersed, and have thy sins bathed away, calling upon his name.
And it came to pass, when had returned unto Jerusalem, and was praying in the temple, that I came to be in a trance,
and saw him, saying unto me—Haste thee, and go forth speedily out of Jerusalem, inasmuch as they will not accept thy witness concerning me.
And, I, said—Lord! they themselves, well know that I was imprisoning and beating in every synagogue them who were believing on thee.
And, when the blood of Stephen thy witness was being shed, even I myself, was standing by, and approving, and guarding the mantles of them who were slaying him.
And he said unto me—Be taking thy journey; because, I, unto nations afar off, will send thee.
And they hearkened unto him as far as this word, and lifted up their voice, saying—Away from the earth, with such a man as this, for it is not fit that he should live.
Now, as they were both making an outcry and tearing their mantles,—dust, also were throwing into the air,
the captain ordered him to be brought into the castle, saying, that, with scourging, he should be put to the test,—that he might find out, for what cause they were, thus, clamouring against him.
But, when they had stretched him out with straps, Paul said unto the by-standing centurion—A Roman, and uncondemned, is it allowed you to be scourging?
And, when the centurion heard [that], he went unto the captain, and reported, saying—What art thou going to do? For, this man, is, a Roman?
And the captain, coming up, said to him—Tell me! Art, thou, a, Roman? And, he, said—Yea!
And the captain answered—I, for a large sum, this citizenship acquired! And, Paul, said—But, I, am even, [free-] born!
Straightway, therefore, they who were about to put him to the test, withdrew from him; and, even the captain, was struck with fear, when he found out he was, a Roman, and because, him, he had bound.
But, on the morrow, being minded to get to know the certainty as to why he was being accused by the Jews, he released him, and ordered the High-priests and all the High-council to come together; and, bringing down Paul, set him before them.