And they came to the opposite side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.
And when he had come out of the ship, immediately there met him from the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
who had his dwelling among the tombs; and no one could keep him bound even with chains;
because he had often been bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been pulled to pieces by him, and the fetters had been broken, and no one had strength to subdue him;
and always, night and day, he was in the tombs, and in the mountains, crying out, and cutting himself with stones.
And when he saw Jesus at a distance, he ran and did him homage;
and crying out with a loud voice, he said: What have I to do with thee, Jesus, Son of God Most High? I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not.
For he had said to him: Unclean spirit, come out of the man.
And he asked him: What is your name? And he said to him: My name is Legion; for we are many.
And he earnestly besought him that he would not send them out of the country.
Now a great herd of swine was feeding there near the mountain.
And the demons besought him, saying: Send us to the swine, that we may enter into them.
And Jesus immediately gave them leave. And the unclean spirits came out and entered into the swine; and the herd (they were about two thousand,) rushed down a steep place into the sea, and were strangled in the sea.
And those who fed them fled, and told it in the city, and in the country. And they came out to see what had been done;
and they came to Jesus and saw the demoniac, who had had the legion, sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.
And those who had seen it told them how it had happened to the demoniac, and also concerning the swine.
And they began to beseech him to depart from their borders.
And when he had entered the ship, he that had been possessed with the demons besought him that he might be with him.
And he did not permit him, but said to him: Go home to your relatives, and make known to them what things the Lord has done for you, and that he has had compassion on you.
And he went away and began to proclaim in Decapolis what things Jesus had done for him. And all were astonished.
And when Jesus had again gone over in the ship to the opposite side, a great multitude came together to him; and he was near the sea.
And behold, there came one of the rulers of the synagogue, named Jairus; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet,
and besought him earnestly, saying: My little daughter is at the point of death; come, lay thy hands on her, that she may be saved, and she will live.
And he went with him; and a great multitude followed him, and pressed upon him.
And a certain woman who had had an issue of blood for twelve years,
and had suffered much from many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was in no way benefited, but rather grew worse,
when she heard of Jesus, came behind him in the multitude, and touched his mantle;
for she said: If I may even touch his clothes, I shall be saved.
And immediately the fountain of her blood dried up, and she knew in her body that she was cured of that plague.
And Jesus, immediately perceiving in himself that power had gone forth from him, turned around in the multitude and said: Who touched my clothes?
And his disciples said to him: Thou seest the multitude pressing upon thee, and dost thou say, Who touched me?
And he looked around to see her that had done this.
But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing; what had been done within her, came and fell down before him; and told him all the truth.
And he said to her: Daughter, your faith has saved you; go in peace, and be cured of your plague.
While he was yet speaking, some came from the ruler of the synagogue, who said: Your daughter is dead; why give the Teacher further trouble?
But as soon as Jesus heard what was spoken, he said to the ruler of the synagogue: Fear not, only believe.
And he suffered no one to follow him, except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
And he came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and saw the tumult, and those who were weeping and wailing greatly.
And he went in and said to them: Why do you make a tumult and weep? The child is not dead, but sleeps.
And they derided him. But when he had put them all out, he took the father and mother of the child, and those who were with him, and went in where the child was lying.
And he took the child by the hand, and said to her: Talitha kumi; which is, when translated, Maiden, (I say to you,) arise.
And the maiden immediately arose and walked, for she was twelve years old. And they were greatly astonished.
And he charged them strictly that no one should know this. And he commanded that something should be given her to eat.