And it happened, when Jesus finished all these sayings, He said to His disciples,
You know that the Passover is coming after two days, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.
Then the chief priests and the scribes and the elders of the people were assembled to the court of the high priest, the one named Caiaphas.
And they plotted together in order that they might seize Jesus by guile and kill Him .
But they said, Not during the feast, that there be no uproar among the people.
And Jesus being in Bethany, in Simon the leper's house,
a woman came to Him having an alabaster vial of ointment, very precious. And she poured it on His head as He reclined.
But seeing, His disciples were indignant, saying, For what is this waste?
For this ointment could have been sold for much and be given to the poor.
But knowing, Jesus said to them, Why do you cause trouble to the woman? For she worked a good work toward Me.
For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have Me.
For in putting this ointment on My body, she did it in order to bury Me.
Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel is proclaimed in all the world, what she did will be spoken of as a memorial of her.
Then one of the twelve going to the chief priests, the one named Judas Iscariot,
said, What will you give to me, and I will deliver Him up to you? "And they weighed to him thirty silver pieces." Zech. 11:12
And from then he sought opportunity that he might betray Him.
And on the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread , the disciples came to Jesus, saying to Him, Where do you desire we should prepare for You to eat the Passover?
And He said, Go into the city to a certain one and say to him, The Teacher says, My time is near; to you I will prepare the Passover with My disciples.
And the disciples did as Jesus ordered them, and prepared the Passover.
And evening coming, He reclined with the Twelve.
And as they were eating, He said, Truly I say to you that one of you will betray Me.
And grieving exceedingly, they began to say to Him, each of them, Lord, not I am the one ?
But answering, He said, The one dipping the hand with Me in the dish will betray Me.
Indeed, the Son of man goes, as it has been written about Him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed. It were good for him if that man was never born.
And answering, the one betraying Him, Judas, said, Not I am the one , Rabbi? He said to him, You said it .
And as they ate, taking the bread and blessing it , Jesus broke and gave to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is My body.
And taking the cup, and giving thanks, He gave to them, saying, Drink all of it.
For this is My blood of the New Covenant which concerning many is being poured out for remission of sins.
But I say to you, I will not at all drink of this fruit of the vine after this until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of My Father.
And singing a hymn, they went to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them, You all will be offended in Me during this night. For it has been written, "I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered." Zech. 13:7
But after My resurrection I will go before you into Galilee.
And answering, Peter said to Him, Even if all will be offended in You, I will never be offended.
Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, During this night, before a cock crows, you will deny Me three times.
Peter said to Him, Even if it were necessary for me to die with You, I will in no way deny You. And all the disciples said the same.
Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane. And He said to the disciples, Sit here, until going away, I shall pray there.
And taking along Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, He began to grieve and to be deeply troubled.
Then He said to them, My soul is deeply grieved, even unto death. Stay here and watch with Me.
And going forward a little, He fell on His face, praying, and saying, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me; yet not as I will, but as You will .
And He came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And He said to Peter, So! Were you not able to watch one hour with Me?
Watch and pray, that you do not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Again, going away a second time, He prayed, saying, My Father, if this cup cannot pass away from Me without My drinking it, let Your will be done.
And coming, He again found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
And leaving them, going away again, He prayed a third time, saying the same word.
Then He came to His disciples and said to them, Sleep on, and rest for what time remains. Behold, the hour draws near, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Rise up, let us go. Behold, the one betraying Me draws near.
And as He was yet speaking, behold, Judas came, one of the Twelve. And with him was a numerous crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and elders of the people.
And the one betraying Him gave them a sign, saying, Whomever I may kiss, it is He; seize Him.
And coming up at once to Jesus, he said, Hail, Rabbi. And he ardently kissed Him.
But Jesus said to him, Friend, why are you here? Then coming up, they laid hands on Jesus and seized Him.
And, behold, one of those with Jesus, stretching out the hand, drew his sword and struck the slave of the high priest and took off his ear.
Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword shall perish by a sword.
Or do you think that I am not able now to call on My Father, and He will place beside Me more than twelve legions of angels?
How then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must happen this way?
In that hour, Jesus said to the crowds, Have you come out to take Me with swords and clubs, as against a robber? I sat with you daily teaching in the temple, and you did not lay hands on Me.
But all this is happening that the Scriptures of the prophets may be fulfilled. Then all the disciples ran away, forsaking Him.
And those who had seized Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled.
And Peter followed Him from a distance, even to the court of the high priest. And going inside, he sat with the under-officers to see the end.
And the chief priests and the elders and the whole sanhedrin looked for false testimony against Jesus, so that they might put Him to death,
but did not find any , even though there were many false witnesses coming forward, they did not find any. But at last, coming up two false witnesses
said, This one said, I am able to destroy the Holy Place of God, and in three days to build it.
And standing up, the high priest said to Him, Do you answer nothing? What do these witness against you?
But Jesus kept silent. And answering, the high priest said to Him, I adjure you by the living God that you tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God.
Jesus said to him, You said it . I tell you more. From this time you shall see the Son of man sitting off the right hand of power, and coming on the clouds of the heavens. Psa. 110:1; LXX-Dan. 7:13
Then the high priest tore his garments, saying, He blasphemed! Why do we have any more need of witnesses? Behold, now you have heard his blasphemy.
What does it seem to you? And answering, they said, He is liable to death.
Then they spat in His face, and beat Him with the fist, and some slapped Him ,
saying, Prophesy to us, Christ. Who is the one that struck you?
And Peter sat outside in the court. And one girl came near to him, saying, And you were with Jesus the Galilean.
But he denied before all, saying, I do not know what you say.
And he, going out into the porch, another saw him and said to those there, And this one was with Jesus the Nazarene.
And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man.
And after a little, coming near, those standing by said to Peter, Truly you also are of them, for even your speech makes you known.
Then he began to curse and to swear, I do not know the man. And immediately a cock crowed.
And Peter recalled the word of Jesus, saying to him, Before a cock crows, you will deny Me three times. And going out, he wept bitterly.