But Jesus went to the mount of Olives.
And in the morning he again entered the temple, and all the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them.
And the scribes and Pharisees brought to him a woman who had been detected in adultery; and they made her stand in the midst,
and said to him: Teacher, this woman was detected in adultery; in the very act.
Now Moses, in his law, commanded us, that such should be stoned; but what say you?
This they said to tempt him, that they might bring an accusation against him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground.
But as they continued to ask him, he stood up, and said to them: Let him among you who is without sin, first throw a stone at her.
And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground.
But having heard him, and being convicted by their conscience, they went out, one by one, beginning from the oldest, even to the last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.
And when Jesus stood up, and saw no one but the woman, he said to her: Woman, where are those who accused you? Has no one condemned you?
She said: No one, sir. Jesus said to her: Neither do I condemn you; go, and sin no more.
Then Jesus spoke to them again, saying: I am the light of the world; he that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
Then the Pharisees said to him: You testify concerning yourself; your testimony is not worthy of credit.
Jesus answered and said to them: Though I testify concerning myself, my testimony is worthy of credit; for I know whence I came, and whither I go. But you know not whence I came, and whither I go.
You judge according to the flesh; I judge no man.
And yet if I judge, my judgment is true, because I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent me.
It is also written in your law, The testimony of two is worthy of credit.
I am one that testify concerning myself, and the Father who sent me, testifies of me.
Then they said to him: Where is your Father? Jesus answered: You know neither me, nor my Father. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also.
These words Jesus spoke in the treasury, as he taught in the temple; and no one laid hands on him, because his hour had not yet come.
Then spoke Jesus to them again; I go away, and you will seek me, and in your sin you shall die; whither I go, you can not come.
Then said the Jews: Will he kill himself, because he says, Whither I go, you can not come?
And he said to them: You are from beneath, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world.
Therefore said I to you, that you shall die in your sins. For if you believe not that I am, He, you shall die in your sins.
Then they said to him: Who are you? And Jesus said to them: The same that I said to you at the beginning.
I have many things to say, and to judge with respect to you; but he that sent me is true; and what things I have heard from him, these I speak to the world.
They knew not that he was speaking to them of the Father.
Then said Jesus to them: When you have lifted up the Son of man, then you will know that I am He, and that I do nothing of myself, but as the Father has taught me I speak these things.
And he that sent me is with me. The Father has not left me alone, because I always do what is pleasing to him.
While he was speaking these words, many believed on him.
Then said Jesus to those Jews that believed on him: If you continue in my word, you are my disciples indeed,
and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
They answered him: We are the posterity of Abraham, and have never been in bondage to any one. How say you, You shall be made free?
Jesus answered them: Verily, verily I say to you, whoever works sin is the servant of sin.
The servant continues not in the house forever; but the Son continues forever.
Therefore, if the Son make you free, you shall be free indeed.
I know that you are the posterity of Abraham; yet you seek to kill me, because my word has no place in you.
I speak what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have seen with your father.
They answered and said to him: Abra ham is our father.   Jesus said to them: If you were the children of Abraham, you would do the works of Abraham.
But now you seek to kill me, a man that has spoken to you the truth, which I have heard from God; this Abraham did not.
You do the works of your father. They said to him: We were not born of lewdness; we have one father, God.
Jesus said to them: If God were your father, you would love me; for I came forth from God and have come hither; nor, indeed, did I come of myself, but he sent me.
Why do you not know what I say? Because you can not understand my words.
You are of your father, the devil; and the desires of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and stood not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks that which is false, he speaks from what is his own; for he is a liar, and the father of it.
But because I speak the truth, you believe me not.
Which of you convicts me of sin? If I speak the truth, why do you not believe me?
He that is of God, hears God’s words. For this reason you do not hear them, because you are not of God.
The Jews answered, and said to him: Do we not well say that you are a Samaritan, and have a demon?
Jesus answered: I have not a demon; but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.
I seek not my own glory; there is one that seeks and judges.
Verily, verily I say to you, if any one will keep my word, he shall never see death.
Then said the Jews to him: Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and you say, If a man keep my word, he shall never taste of death.
Are you greater than our father Abraham, who is dead? And the prophets are dead; whom do you make yourself?
Jesus answered: If I honor myself, my honor is nothing; it is my Father that honors me, of whom you say, that he is your God.
And yet you have not known him. But I know him; and if I should say that I do not know him, I should be like yourselves, a liar. But I know him, and I keep his word.
Abraham, your father, rejoiced that he could see my day; and he saw it, and was glad.
Then the Jews said to him: You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?
Jesus said to them: Verily, verily I say to you, before Abraham came into being, I was.
Then they took up stones to throw at him. But Jesus concealed himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them; and so passed by.