Remind your hearers to respect and obey the powers that be, to be ready for every kind of good work, to speak ill of no one, to avoid quarrelling,
to be forbearing, and under all circumstances to show a gentle spirit in dealing with others, whoever they may be.
There was, you remember, a time when we ourselves were foolish, disobedient, misled, slaves to all kinds of passions and vices, living in a spirit of malice and envy, detested ourselves and hating one another.
But, when the kindness of God our Saviour and his love for humanity were revealed, he saved us,
not as the result of any righteous actions that we had done, but in fulfilment of his merciful purposes. He saved us by that washing which was a new birth to us, and by the renewing power of the Holy Spirit,
which he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;
that, having been pronounced righteous through his loving kindness, we might enter on our inheritance with the hope of eternal life.
How true that saying is! And it is on these subjects that I desire you to lay especial stress, so that those who have learned to trust in God may be careful to devote themselves to doing good. Such subjects are excellent in themselves, and of real use to humanity.
But have nothing to do with foolish discussions, or with genealogies, or with controversy, or disputes about the law. They are useless and futile.
If someone is causing divisions among you, after warning them once or twice, have nothing more to say to them.
You may be sure that such a person has forsaken the truth and is in the wrong; they stand self-condemned.
As soon as I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, join me as quickly as possible at Nicopolis, for I have arranged to spend the winter there.
Do your best to help Zenas, the teacher of the law, and Apollos, on their way, and see that they want for nothing.
Let all our people learn to devote themselves to doing good, so as to meet the most pressing needs, and that their lives may not be unfruitful.
All who are with me here send you their greeting. Give my greeting to our friends in the faith.    God bless you all.