And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, you dwell in the midst of a rebellious house. They have eyes to see, but they do not see; they have ears to hear, but they do not hear; for they are a rebellious house.
And you, son of man, prepare for yourself vessels for exile, and go into exile by day in their sight. And you shall be exiled from your place to another place in their sight. Perhaps they will see that they are a rebellious house.
And you shall bring forth your vessels as vessels for exile by day in their sight. And you shall go forth at evening in their sight, as those going into exile.
In their sight dig for yourself through the wall, and carry out through it.
In their sight you shall carry on the shoulder, in the dark carry out. You shall cover your face so that you do not see the ground, for I have set you as a wonder to the house of Israel.
And I did so, as I was commanded. By day I brought forth vessels as vessels for exile. And in the evening I dug by hand for myself through the wall. I brought it out in the dark, and I carried on my shoulder before their eyes+.
And in the morning the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, has not the house of Israel, that rebellious house, said to you, What are you doing?
Say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: This burden is to the prince in Jerusalem, and to all the house of Israel who are among them.
Say, I am your wonder. As I have done, so it shall be done to them. They shall go into exile, into captivity.
And the prince who is among them shall carry on his shoulder in the dark and go forth through the wall. They shall dig to bring out by it. He shall cover his face so that he does not look with the eye on the earth.
And I will spread My net on him, and he shall be taken in My snare. And I will bring him to Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans. Yet he will not see it, and he shall die there.
And all who are around him, his help and all his bands, I will scatter to every wind, and I will draw out a sword after them.
And they shall know that I am Jehovah when I shall scatter them among the nations and disperse them in the lands.
But of them I will leave a number of men from the sword, from the famine, and from the plague, so that they may declare all their abominations among the nations, there where they go. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, eat your bread with quaking, and drink your water with trembling and with anxiety.
And say to the people of the land, So says the Lord Jehovah to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with anxiety and drink their water with horror, so that her land may be desolated of her fullness, because of the violence of all those who live in her.
And the cities that have people shall be laid waste, and the land shall be desolate. And you shall know that I am Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, what is this proverb to you on the land of Israel, saying, The days are long, and every vision shall perish?
Therefore, tell them, So says the Lord Jehovah: I will make this proverb cease, and they shall not use it again in Israel. However, say to them, The days draw near, and the matter of every vision.
For there shall not again be every vain vision, nor slippery divination, within the house of Israel.
For I, Jehovah, will speak. The word which I shall speak shall be done, it shall not be drawn out again. For in your days, O house of rebellion, I will say the word and will do it, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, behold, the house of Israel is saying, The vision that he is seeing is for many days, and he prophesies for times far off.
So say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Not any of My words will be drawn out any longer. What I have spoken, that word shall be done, declares the Lord Jehovah.