And so it was, after the death of Saul, when David had returned from the smiting of the Amalekites, and David had abode in Ziklag two days,
yea so it was, on the third day, that lo! a man came out of the camp, from Saul, with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head,—and so it was, when he came in unto David, that he fell to the earth, and did homage.
And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel, am I escaped.
And David said unto him—How turned out the matter? tell me, I pray thee. And he said—The people have fled from the battle, yea moreover, many, of the people have fallen, and died, Yea moreover, Saul, and Jonathan his son, are dead.
Then said David unto the young man who was telling him,—How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?
And the young man who was telling him said, It, so happened, that I was on Mount Gilboa, when lo! Saul, leaning upon his spear, and lo! the chariots and horsemen, hotly pursued him;
so he turned behind him, and saw me,—and cried out unto me, and I said, Behold me!
And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I said unto him, An Amalekite, am I.
And he said unto me, I pray thee, take thy stand by me, and put me to death, for the cramp hath seized me,—even for as long as my life shall be in me.
So I took my stand by him, and put him to death, for I perceived that he could not survive his fall,—so I took the crown that was on his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them in unto my lord, here.
Then David took hold of his clothes, and rent them,—yea moreover, [so did] all the men who were with him.
And they lamented aloud, and wept, and fasted until the evening,—for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Yahweh, and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
And David said unto the young man who was telling him, Whence art thou? And he said, Son of a sojourner—an Amalekite, am I.
And David said unto him,—How wast thou not afraid to thrust forth thy hand, to destroy the Anointed of Yahweh?
So David called one of the young men, and said,—Go near—fall upon him. And he smote him, that he died.
And David said unto him, Thy blood, be upon thine own head,—for, thine own mouth, hath testified against thee, saying, I myself, put to death the Anointed of Yahweh.
Then chanted David this dirge,—over Saul and over Jonathan his son;
and he thought to teach the sons of Judah [the song of] the Bow,—lo! it is written in the Book of the Upright:—
The beauty of Israel! on thy high plumes—slain! How have fallen—the mighty!
Do not tell it in Gath, Do not publish it in the streets of Ashkelon,—lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the Uncircumcised triumph.
Ye mountains in Gilboa! Be there neither dew nor rain upon you, nor fields of offerings,—for, there, were cast away, the shields of the mighty, The shield of Saul, unanointed with oil.
From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan ne’er drew back,—and, the sword of Saul, ne’er returned, empty.
Saul and Jonathan, delightfully loving in their lives, even, in their death, were not divided,—Beyond eagles, were they swift, beyond lions, were they strong!
Ye daughters of Israel! For Saul, weep ye,—who clothed you in crimson, [decked] with lovely things, who hung ornaments of gold on your apparel!
How have fallen the mighty, in the midst of the battle! Jonathan, on thy high places, slain!
I am distressed for thee, my brother, Jonathan! Delightful to me, exceedingly,—Wonderful, was thy love to me, passing the love of women.
How have fallen the mighty, and perished the weapons of war!