Comfort, O comfort My people, says your God.
Speak lovingly to the heart of Jerusalem; yea, cry to her that her warfare is done, that her iniquity is pardoned; for she has taken from the hand of Jehovah double for all her sins.
The voice of him who cries in the wilderness: Prepare the way of Jehovah; make straight in the desert a highway for our God.
Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low; and the knoll shall be a level place, and the rough places a plain.
And the glory of Jehovah shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.
A voice said, Cry! And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all its grace as the flower of the field!
The grass withers, the flower fades because the Spirit of Jehovah blows on it. Surely the people is grass.
The grass withers; the flower fades; but the word of our God shall rise forever.
You who bring good news to Zion, go up for yourself on the high mountain, bringer of good news to Zion. Lift up your voice with strength, bringer of good news to Jerusalem. Lift up; do not fear. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold! Your God!
Behold, the Lord Jehovah will come with strength, and His arm rules for Him. Behold, His reward is with Him, and His wage before Him.
He shall feed His flock like a shepherd; He shall gather lambs with His arm; and carry them in His bosom; those with young He will lead;
He who has measured in His palm the waters and the heavens by a span meted out; and enclosed in the measure the dust of the earth, and weighed in the balance the mountains, and the hills in the scales,
Who has meted out the Spirit of Jehovah, or a man His counsel taught Him?
With whom did He take counsel, and who trained Him and taught Him in the path of justice; and taught Him knowledge, and made known to Him the way of discernment?
Lo, nations are as a drop from a bucket, and are reckoned as dust of the scales. Lo, He takes up coasts as a little thing.
And Lebanon is not enough to burn, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering.
All the nations are as nothing before Him; to Him they are reckoned less than nothing and emptiness.
And to whom will you liken God? Or what likeness will you array to Him?
The craftsman pours out the casted image, the smelter spreads it with gold; and he casts the chains of silver.
He too poor for that offering chooses a tree that will not rot; he seeks a skilled artisan for him, to prepare a carved image that will not be shaken.
Have you not known? Have you not heard? Was it not told to you from the beginning? Did you not discern from the foundations of the earth?
He who sits on the circle of the earth, even its dwellers are like grasshoppers; He who stretches the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to live in;
who gives potentates into nothing. He makes judges of the earth as nothing.
Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they are not sown; yea, their stem is not taking root in the earth. And He shall also blow on them, and they shall wither, and the tempest shall take them away like stubble.
To whom then will you compare Me, or am I equaled, says the Holy One?
Lift up your eyes on high and look: Who has created these? Who brings out their host by number? By greatness of vigor, and might of power, He calls them all by names; not one is lacking.
Why will you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel; My way is hidden from Jehovah, and my judgment is passed over by my God?
Have you not known? Have you not heard? Jehovah, the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends of the earth; He is not faint, nor does He grow weary; there is no searching to His understanding.
He gives power to the faint, and to him with no vigor He increases might.
Even youths are faint and fatigued, and young men surely shall stumble;
but the ones waiting for Jehovah shall renew power; they shall go up with wings as the eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not be faint!