Thou therefore, my child, be strong in the grace in Christ Jesus.
And what thou have heard from me through many witnesses, these things commit thou to faithful men who will be competent to teach others also.
Thou therefore endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
No man who serves in the military entangles himself in the affairs of life, so that he may please the man who enlisted the army.
And also if any man competes, he is not crowned unless he competes lawfully.
The farmer who labors must be the first to partake of the fruits.
Consider what I say, for may the Lord give thee understanding in all things.
Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my good news,
within which I suffer evil to the point of bonds as an evildoer, but the word of God is not bound.
Because of this I endure all things because of the chosen, so that they also may experience salvation in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory.
Faithful is the saying, For if we die together, we will also live together.
If we endure, we will also reign together. If we renounce him, that man will also renounce us.
If we are unfaithful, that man remains faithful. He cannot renounce himself.
Remind them of these things, solemnly testifying in the sight of the Lord, not to brawl verbally, to nothing useful, to the ruin of those who hear.
Be diligent to present thyself approved to God, an irreproachable workman, correctly traversing the word of truth.
But shun profane babblings, for they will advance to greater impiety,
and their word will have a feeding field like gangrene, of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
men who missed the mark about the truth, saying the resurrection happened already, and they overthrow the faith of some.
Nevertheless the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those who are his, and, Let every man who names the name of the Lord keep away from unrighteousness.
Now in a great house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also wood and earthen, and some for esteem and some for disesteem.
If therefore any man purges himself from these things, he will be a vessel for esteem, sanctified and useful to the master, prepared for every good work.
And flee juvenile impulses, but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, with those who call upon the Lord out of a pure heart.
But shun foolish and uneducated questions, knowing that they breed quarrels.
And a bondman of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, able to teach, patient,
in meekness correcting those who oppose. Perhaps God may grant them repentance for recognition of the truth,
and they may sober up out of the snare of the devil, having been captured by him for his will.