And when they drew near Jerusalem, and had come to Bethphage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,
saying to them, Go into the village across from you. And immediately you will find an ass tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to Me.
And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them, and immediately He will send them.
All this was done so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying,
"Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your King comes to you, meek, and sitting on an ass, even a colt the foal of an ass."
And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them.
And they brought the ass, even the colt, and put their clothes on them, and He sat on them.
And a very great crowd spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them in the way.
And the crowds who went before, and those who followed, cried out, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!
And when He had come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this?
And the crowd said, This is Jesus the prophet, from Nazareth of Galilee.
And Jesus went into the temple of God and cast out all those who sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of those who sold doves.
And He said to them, It is written, "My house shall be called the house of prayer"; but you have made it a den of thieves.
And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple, and He healed them.
And when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things which He did, and the children crying in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, they were angry.
And they said to Him, Do you hear what these say? And Jesus said to them, Yes, have you never read, "Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings You have perfected praise?"
And leaving them, He went out of the city to Bethany, and spent the night there.
And returning early to the city, He hungered.
And seeing a fig tree in the way, He came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And He said to it, let no fruit grow on you forever. And immediately the fig tree withered away.
And when the disciples saw, they marveled, saying, How quickly the fig tree has withered away!
Jesus answered and said to them, Truly I say to you, If you have faith and do not doubt, you shall not only do this miracle of the fig tree, but also; if you shall say to this mountain, Be moved and be thrown into the sea; it shall be done.
And all things, whatever you shall ask in prayer, believing, you shall receive.
And when He had come into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to Him as He was teaching, and said, By what authority do you do these things? And who gave you this authority?
And Jesus answered and said to them, I will also ask you one thing; which if you tell Me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The baptism of John, where was it from? From Heaven or from men? And they reasoned within themselves, saying, If we shall say, From Heaven, he will say to us, Why then did you not believe him?
But if we shall say From men, we fear the people; for all consider John as a prophet.
And they answered Jesus and said, We cannot tell. And He said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
But what do you think? A man had two sons; and he came to the first and said, Son, go work in my vineyard today.
He answered and said, I will not. But afterwards he repented and went.
And he came to the second and said likewise. And he answered and said, I go, sir; and did not go.
Which of the two did the will of his father? They said to Him, The first. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that the tax-collectors and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you.
For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax-collectors and the harlots believed him. And when you had seen it, you did not repent afterwards so that you might believe him.
Hear another parable. There was a certain housemaster who planted a vineyard and hedged it round about, and dug a winepress in it, and built a tower, and rented it to vinedressers, and went into a far country.
And when the season of the fruits drew near, he sent his servants to the vinedressers to receive its fruits.
And the vinedressers took his servants, and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
Again he sent other servants, more than the first, and they did the same to them.
But last of all he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son.
But when the vinedressers saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and get hold of his inheritance.
And taking him, they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
Therefore when the lord of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vinedressers?
They said to Him, Bad men! He will miserably destroy them and will rent out his vineyard to other vinedressers who will give him the fruits in their seasons.
Jesus said to them, Did you never read in the Scriptures, "The stone which the builders rejected, this One has become the head of the corner; this is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes?"
Therefore I say to you, The kingdom of God shall be taken from you and given to a nation bringing out its fruits.
And he who falls on this Stone shall be broken, but on whomever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.
And when the chief priests and Pharisees heard His parables, they knew that He spoke of them.
But seeking to lay hands on Him, they feared the crowd, because they held Him for a prophet.