In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years. Then he turned and rebelled against him.
And the LORD sent against him troops of the Chaldees, and bands of the Syrians, and troops of the Moabites, and troops of the Ammonites. And He sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the LORD which He spoke by His servants the prophets.
Surely at the commandment of the Lord this came on Judah, to remove them out of His sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did;
and also for the innocent blood which he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, which the LORD would not pardon.
And the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And Jehoiakim slept with his fathers. And Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
And the king of Egypt did not come again out of his land any more. For the king of Babylon had taken from the river of Egypt to the river Euphrates all that belonged to the king of Egypt.
Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. And his mother's name was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
And he did the evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father had done.
At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.
And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, and his servants besieged it.
And Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother, and his servants, and his leaders, and his eunuchs. And the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign.
And he carried out from there all the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of the LORD, as the LORD had said.
And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the leaders, and all the mighty men of war, ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths. None remained except the poorest sort of the people of the land.
And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, and the king's mother, and the king's wives, and his eunuchs. And the mighty of the land he carried into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.
And the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon all the men of might, seven thousand of them, and a thousand craftsmen and smiths, all who were strong and able for war.
And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah, his father's brother, king in his place. And he changed his name to Zedekiah.
Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
And he did the evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
For it was through the anger of the LORD that Zedekiah happened to rebel against the king of Babylon in Jerusalem and in Judah, until God had put them out of His presence.