And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished giving instructions to his twelve disciples, he passed on from thence, to be teaching and proclaiming in their cities.
Now, John, hearing in the prison the works of the Christ, sending through his disciples,
said unto him, Art, thou, the coming one? or, a different one, are we to expect?
And, answering, Jesus said unto them—Go report unto John what ye do hear and see:—
The, blind, recover sight, and, the lame, walk, lepers, are cleansed, and, the deaf, hear,—and, the dead, are raised, and, the destitute, are told the joyful tidings;
And, happy, is he, whosoever shall not find cause of stumbling, in me.
But, as these were going their way, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes, concerning John,—What went ye forth into the wilderness to gaze at? A reed, by a wind, shaken?
But what went ye forth to see? A man, in soft clothing, arrayed? Lo! they who soft clothing do wear, are in the houses of kings.
But why went ye forth? A prophet, to see? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet.
This, is he, concerning whom it is written,—Lo! I, send my messenger before thy face, who shall make ready thy way before thee!
Verily, I say unto you—There hath not arisen, among such as are born of women, a greater than John the Immerser,—yet, he that is less in the kingdom of the heavens, is, greater than he.
But, from the days of John the Immerser, until even now, the kingdom of the heavens, is being invaded, and, invaders, are, seizing upon it.
For, all the prophets and the law, until John, did prophesy;
And, if ye are willing to accept it, he, is Elijah—the one destined to come.
He that hath ears, let him hear!
But, unto what, shall I liken this generation? It is, like, unto children, sitting the market-places, who, calling unto the others,
say, We played the flute to you, and ye danced not,—we sang a lament, and ye beat not the breast.
For, John, came, neither eating nor drinking, and they say—A demon, he hath!
The Son of Man, came, eating and drinking, and they say, Lo! a gluttonous man and a wine-drinker! a friend of, tax-collectors, and sinners! And yet wisdom hath been justified by her works.
Then, began he to upbraid the cities, in which had been done his noblest mighty works; because they repented not:—
Alas for thee, Chorazin! Alas for thee, Bethsaida! Because, if, in Tyre and Zidon, had been done the works of power, which were done in you, of old, in sackcloth and ashes, had they repented.
Moreover, I say unto you, For Tyre and Zidon, more tolerable, will it be, in the day of judgment, than for you.
And, thou, Capernaum! Unto heaven, shalt thou be uplifted? Unto hades, thou shall be brought down; because, if, in Sodom, had been done the works of power, which were done in thee, it would, in that case, have remained until this day.
Moreover, I say unto you—For the land of Sodom, more tolerable, will it be in a day of judgment, than, for thee.
In that season, answered Jesus, and said—I openly give praise unto thee, Father, Lord of heaven and earth,—in that thou hast hid these things from the wise and discerning, and hast revealed them unto babes;
Yea, O Father! That, so, it hath become, a delight, before thee.
All things, unto me, have been delivered up by my Father; and, no one, fully knoweth the Son, save the rather, neither doth any one fully know, the Father, save, the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son, may be minded, to reveal, him.
Come unto me! all ye that toil and are burdened, and, I, will give you rest:
Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me,—because, meek, am I and lowly, in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls;
For, my yoke, is easy, and, my burden, light.