Paul, a prisoner of Yahushua the Messiah, and Timothy our brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer,
And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the assembly in thy house:
Favour to you, and peace, from יהוה our Father and the Master Yahushua the Messiah.
I thank my Elohim, making mention of thee always in my prayers,
Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Master Yahushua , and toward all saints;
That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in the Messiah Yahushua.
For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.
Wherefore, though I might have much boldness in the Messiah to command you what is fitting,
Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Yahushua the Messiah.
I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:
Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me:
Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels:
Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the evangel:
But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.
For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever;
Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Master?
If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.
If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account;
I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides.
Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in יהוה: refresh my tender affections in יהוה.
Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say.
But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.
There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in the Messiah Yahushua;
Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.
The favour of our Master Yahushua the Messiah be with your spirit.