Alas for her that is rebellious, and polluted, the city that oppresseth!
She hath hearkened to no voice, accepted no correction; in Yahweh, hath not trusted, to her God, hath not drawn near:
Her rulers in her midst, are roaring lions,—her judges, evening wolves, they have left nothing until morning!
Her prophets, are reckless, treacherous men! her priests, have profaned the holy, done violence to law.
Yahweh, the Righteous One, is in her midst, he dealeth not perversely,—Morning by morning, his justice, bringeth he forth the light, He is not found lacking, but the perverse man knoweth no shame.
I have cut off nations, deserted are their towers, have made desolate their streets, that none passeth through; ruined are their cities, for want of men of note, from lack of any dweller!
I said, Surely thou wilt reverence, Me, wilt accept correction, lest her abode, should be cut of, howsoever I had punished her; but, in truth, they soon corrupted all their deeds.
Wherefore, wait for me, urgeth Yahweh, until the day when I rise up as witness, for, my decision, is to gather nations, to assemble kingdoms, to pour out on them mine indignation, all the glow of mine anger, for, in the fire of my jealousy, shall be devoured the whole earth.
Surely, then, will I turn unto the peoples a lip made pure,—that they all may call on the name of Yahweh, may serve him with one consent.
From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, [shall come] my suppliants, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall bear along a gift for me.
In that day, wilt thou not turn pale for all thy deeds, wherein thou hast transgressed against me? For, then, will I take away out of thy midst thy proudly exulting ones, and thou shalt not again be haughty any more in my holy mountain:
So will I leave remaining in thy midst, a people oppressed and poor,—who will seek refuge in the name of Yahweh:
The remnant of Israel—will not do perversity, nor speak falsehood, neither shall there be found in their mouth a tongue of deceit,—surely, they, shall feed and lie down, with none to make them afraid.
Sing out, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O Israel,—rejoice and exult with all thy heart, O daughter Jerusalem:
Yahweh, hath set aside, thy judgments, hath turned back thy foe,—The king of Israel, Yahweh, is in thy midst, thou shalt not fear calamity, any more.
In that day, shall it be said—to Jerusalem, Do not fear,—O Zion, Let not thy hands hang down:
Yahweh, thy God, in the midst of thee, as a mighty one, will save,—will be glad over thee with rejoicing, will be silent in his love, will exult over thee with shouts of triumph.
The sad exiles from the appointed meeting, have I gathered, from thee, had they been! [but were] a burden on thee—a reproach!
Behold me! dealing with all thine oppressors, at that time,—and I will save her that is lame, and, her that hath been an outcast, will I carry, and I will make them to be a Praise and a Name, in the whole earth that hath witnessed their shame.
At that time, will I bring you in, even at the time when I gather you,—Yea I will grant you to become a Name and a Praise, among all the peoples of the earth, when I cause them of your captivities to return before your eyes, saith Yahweh.