What advantage then has the Jew, or what profit has circumcision?
Much in every respect; but chiefly that the oracles of God were intrusted to them.
What, indeed, if some have been unfaithful? Will their unfaithfulness overthrow the faithfulness of God?
It can not be. But let God be true, though every man be a liar, as it is written: That thou mightest be justified in thy words, and mightest overcome when thou art judged.
But if our unrighteousness causes the righteousness of God to be better known, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous, who inflicts punishment? I speak as a man.
It can not be: for if so, how shall God judge the world?
Yet, if the truth of God has, through my lie, been greatly advanced to his glory, why am I still judged as a sinner?
Then, why not say, (as we are slanderously reported as saying, and, as some affirm, that we do say,) Let us do evil, that good may come? Of such persons the condemnation is just.
What then? Do we, Jews, excel? Not at all: for we have already convicted all, both Jews and Greeks, of being under sin,
as it is written: There is none righteous, no, not one;
there is none that understands; there is none that seeks after God;
they have all turned out of the way; they have alike become unprofitable; there is none that does good, not even one;
their throat is an open sepulcher; with their tongues they have used deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips;
their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness;
their feet are swift to shed blood;
destruction and misery are in their ways;
and the way of peace they have not known;
there is no fear of God before their eyes.
Now we know that what the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world become guilty before God.
Wherefore, by works of law, no flesh shall be justified in his sight; for by law is the knowledge of sin.
But now, the righteousness of God without law is revealed, being attested by the law and the prophets;
I repeat it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, which is for all, and on all that believe; for there is no difference;
for all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God,
yet may be justified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus;
whom God has set forth as a propitiatory sacrifice, through faith in his blood, in order to manifest his righteousness, in passing by the sins that were formerly committed through the forbearance of God;
in order to manifest his righteousness at the present time, that he might be just, while he justifies him who believes in Jesus.
Where, then, is boasting? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? No; but by the law of faith.
For we conclude that a man is justified by faith, without deeds of law.
Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also:
since there is one God, who will justify the circumcision by faith, and the uncircumcision through the faith.
Do we, then, make law void through the faith? It can not be. On the other hand, we establish law.