And when ye shall by lot divide the land as an inheritance, ye shall offer up as a heave-offering to Yahweh a holy portion out of the land, in length, five and twenty thousand long, and in breadth, twenty thousand, —holy shall it be throughout all the territory thereof round about.
There shall be out of this for the holy place, five hundred by five hundred, four-square round about,—and fifty cubits, as an open space to it, round about,
And out of this measure, shalt thou measure, a length of five and twenty thousand and a breadth of ten thousand,—and therein, shall be the sanctuary, the holy of holies:
a holy portion out of the land, it is for the priests who wait in the sanctuary, shall it be, who draw near to wait upon Yahweh,- so shall it be theirs as a place for houses, and a sanctuary for the sanctuary.
And five and twenty thousand, in length, and ten thousand, in breadth,—and it shall be for the Levites who wait upon the house theirs as a possession of cities to dwell in
And, the possession of the city, shall ye give, five thousand, in breadth, and in length, five and twenty thousand answering to the heave-offering of the holy portion,—for all the house of Israel, shall it be.
And to the prince—on his side and on that, shall belong [a portion] of the heave-offering of the holy portion and of the possession of the city, facing the heave-offering of the holy portion and facing the possession of the city, on the west side westward and on the east side eastward,—and in length, answering to one of the portions, from the west boundary to the east boundary,
Of the land, it shall be his for a possession in Israel,—and so my princes shall no more oppress my people, but the land itself, shall they give to the house of Israel, by their tribes.
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, Let it more than suffice you O princes of Israel, Violence and spoil, remove ye And justice and righteousness, execute,— Lift off your acts of expulsion from upon my people, Urgeth My Lord Yahweh.
Balances of righteousness, and an ephah of righteousness, and A bath of righteousness, have ye:
the ephah and the bath of one fixed measure, shall be, to contain the tenth of a homer, the bath,—and the tenth of a homer, the ephah, unto the homer, shall be the proportion thereof;
and the shekel shall be twenty gerahs,—twenty shekels five and twenty shekels and fifteen shekels, the weight shall be to you.
This is the heave-offering which ye shall offer up,- the sixth of an ephah, out of a homer of wheat, and the sixth of an ephah, out of a homer of barley;
And, the statutory portion of oil, shall be— per bath for oil—a tenth part of a bath out of a cor, which is ten baths even a homer; for, ten baths, are a homer.
And one lamb out of the flock out of two hundred out of the watered pastures of Israel, for a gift and for an ascending- sacrifice and for peace-offerings,— To put a propitiatory-covering over them, Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.
All the people of the land shall give to this heave-offering,—for the prince in Israel.
But on the prince himself, shall rest the ascending-sacrifices and the meal-offering, and the drink-offering, on the festivals, and on the new moons, and on the sabbaths, in all the appointed meetings of the house of Israel,—he, shall offer the sin-bearer. and the meal-offering, and the ascending sacrifice, and the peace-offerings, To put a propitiatory-covering about the house of Israel.
Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, In the first month on the first day of the month, shalt thou take a young bullock without defect, —and shalt cleanse the sanctuary from sin;
then shall the priest take of the blood of the sin-bearer and put upon the door-posts of the house, and upon the four corners of the ledge of the altar and upon the door-posts of the gate of the inner court.
And so shalt thou do in the seventh of the month, for any man that wavereth or is of feeble mind,—so shall ye cleanse the house by propitiation.
In the first month on the fourteenth day of the month, shall ye have the passover, —a festival of seven days, unleavened cakes shall be, eaten;
therefore shall the prince offer, on that day, for himself, and for all the people of the land,—a bullock as a sin-bearer;
and the seven days of the festival, shall he offer as an ascending-sacrifice to Yahweh seven bullocks and seven rams without defect, daily, for the seven days,—and as a sin- bearer, a young goat daily;
and a meal-offering of an ephah to each bullock. and an ephah to each ram, shall he offer,— and of oil a hin to an ephah.
In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, throughout the festival, he shall offer like these seven days,—like the sin-bearer like the ascending-sacrifice, and like the meal offering, and like the oil.