The proverbs of Solomon: A wise son makes a father rejoice, but the foolish son is his mother's sorrow.
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death.
Jehovah will not allow the soul of the righteous to go hungry, but He pushes away the desire of the wicked.
He who deals with a lazy palm becomes poor, but the hand of the hard worker makes him rich.
He who gathers in summer is a prudent son; he who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame.
Blessings are on the head of the just, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
The memory of the just is blessed, but the name of the wicked shall rot.
The wise in heart accepts commands, but the foolish of lips shall be thrust away.
He who walks in integrity walks securely, but he who perverts his ways shall be found out.
He who winks the eye causes sorrow, but the foolish of lips shall be thrust away.
The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
Hatred stirs up fights, but love covers all transgressions.
Wisdom is found in the lips of him who has understanding, but a rod is waiting for the back of him who lacks heart.
The wise store up knowledge, but the mouth of the foolish is near ruin.
The rich man's wealth is his strong city; the ruin of the poor is their poverty.
The labor of the righteous is for life; the gain of the wicked is for sin.
He who heeds instruction is in the way of life, but he who refuses reproof is going astray.
He who hides hatred with lying lips, and he who sends out a slander, he is a fool.
In the abundance of words transgression does not cease, but one restraining his lips is prudent.
The tongue of the just is as choice silver; the heart of the wicked is as a little.
The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of heart.
The blessing of Jehovah, it makes rich, and he adds no pain with it.
To work out evil devices is as laughter to the foolish; so wisdom is to a man of understanding.
That which the wicked fears shall come upon him, but the desire of the righteous is granted.
As the storm passes, so the wicked is not; but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
Like vinegar to the teeth, and like smoke to the eyes, so is the lazy one to those who send him.
The fear of Jehovah prolongs days, but the years of the wicked shall be cut short.
The expectation of the righteous is joyful, but the hope of the wicked shall perish.
The way of Jehovah is strength to the upright, but ruin is to workers of iniquity.
The righteous shall never be moved, and the wicked shall not dwell in the land.
The mouth of the just flourishes with wisdom, but the perverse tongue shall be cut off.
The lips of the righteous know what is pleasing, but the mouth of the wicked knows only perversities.