And he called to himself his twelve disciples, and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every sickness.
Now the names of the twelve apostles are these. The first, Simon, who is called Peter; and Andrew his brother; and Jacob the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; Jacob the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.
Yeshua sent these twelve out, and commanded them, saying, "Do not go among the Gentiles, and do not enter into any city of the Samaritans.
Rather, go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And as you go, proclaim, saying, 'The Kingdom of Heaven is near!'
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, and cast out demons. Freely you received, so freely give.
Do not take any gold, nor silver, nor brass in your money belts.
Take no bag for your journey, neither two coats, nor shoes, nor staff: for the laborer is worthy of his food.
And into whatever city or village you enter, find out who in it is worthy; and stay there until you go on.
And as you enter into the household, greet it.
And if the household is worthy, let your peace come on it, but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
And whoever does not receive you, nor hear your words, as you go out of that house or that city, shake off the dust from your feet.
Truly I tell you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
"Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
But beware of people: for they will deliver you up to councils, and in their synagogues they will scourge you.
Yes, and you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the nations.
But when they deliver you up, do not be anxious how or what you will say, for it will be given you in that hour what you will say.
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.
"And brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child. Children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death.
And you will be hated by all men for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved.
But when they persecute you in this city, flee into the next, for truly I tell you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel, until the Son of Man has come.
"A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his lord.
It is enough for the disciple that he be like his teacher, and the servant like his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more those of his household!
Therefore do not be afraid of them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed; and hidden that will not be known.
What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear whispered in the ear, proclaim on the housetops.
And do not be afraid of those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. Rather, fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
"Are not two sparrows sold for an assarion coin? Not one of them falls on the ground apart from your Father's will,
but the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
Therefore do not be afraid. You are of more value than many sparrows.
Everyone therefore who confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.
But whoever denies me before people, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
"Do not think that I came to send peace on the earth. I did not come to send peace, but a sword.
For I came to set a man at odds against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And a man's foes will be those of his own household.
He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
And whoever does not take his cross and follow after me, is not worthy of me.
He who seeks his life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.
He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
He who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward. He who receives a righteous man because he is a righteous man will receive a righteous man's reward.
And whoever gives one of these little ones just a cup of cold water to drink because he is a disciple, truly I tell you he will in no way lose his reward."