Let brotherly love continue.
Do not be forgetful to entertain strangers, for by this some have entertained angels without knowing it.
Remember those who are in bonds, as bound with them, those who suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.
Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
Let your way of life be without the love of money, and be content with such things as you have, for He has said, "Not at all will I leave you, not at all will I forsake you, never!"
so that we may boldly say, " The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do to me."
Remember your leaders, who have spoken to you the Word of God. Follow their faith, considering the end of their conduct:
Jesus Christ the same yesterday and today and forever.
Do not be carried about with different and strange doctrines, for it is good for the heart to be established with grace, not with foods, in which those who have walked in them were not helped.
We have an altar of which they have no right to eat, those who serve the tabernacle.
For the bodies of those animals, whose blood is brought into the Holy of Holies by the high priest for sin, are burned outside the camp.
Therefore Jesus also, so that He might sanctify the people with His own blood, suffered outside the gate.
Therefore let us go forth to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
For here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come.
By Him, then, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to His name.
But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Yield to your leaders, and be submissive, for they watch for your souls, as those who must give account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief; for that is unprofitable for you.
Pray for us; for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly.
But I beseech you the rather to do this, so that I may be more quickly restored to you.
Now may the God of peace (who brought again our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant)
make you perfect in every good work to do His will, working in you that which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
And I beseech you, brothers, allow the word of exhortation. For I have written a letter to you in few words.
Know that our brother Timothy has been set at liberty, with whom, if he comes shortly, I will see you.
Greet all those who have the rule over you, and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
Grace be with you all. Amen.