And he entrusted her (there was no question but that it was Mordecai) to go in to the king, and to petition on behalf of her people and her native land.
“Remember,” he said, “the days of your lowliness, how you were nurtured as if in my hand, because Haman, who is second after the king, has spoken against us to death.
And you must call upon the Lord, and speak with the king on our behalf, and free us from death.”
So, on the third day, she put away her ornate apparel, and surrounded herself with glory.
And when she was shining in a royal manner, and had called upon God, the Guide and Savior of all, she took two maids with her.
And she was leaning upon one of them, as if, out of delicateness and great tenderness, she were not able to bear carrying her own body.
And the other maid followed her lady, carrying her garment flowing on the ground.
Yet she had a rosy color pouring over her face, for, with gracious and bright eyes, she restrained a sorrowful soul and very great fear.
And so, entering hesitantly through a series of doors, she stood opposite the king, where he sat upon his royal throne, clothed in royal robes, and shining with gold and precious stones. And he was terrible to behold.
And when he had lifted up his face, and with burning eyes had shown the fury of his heart, the queen collapsed, and her color turned pale, and she rested her exhausted head upon her handmaid.
And God changed the king’s spirit into gentleness; quickly and apprehensively, he leapt from his throne, and lifting her up in his arms until she came to herself, he coaxed her with these words:
“What is the matter, Esther? I am your brother, do not be afraid.
You will not die. For this law has not been established for you, but for all others.
So approach and touch the scepter.”
And since she remained silent, he took the golden scepter and placed it on her neck, and he kissed her and said, “Why do you not speak to me?”
She answered, “I saw you, my lord, as an angel of God, and my heart was disturbed for fear of your glory.
For you, my lord, are great and wonderful, and your face is full of grace.”
And while she was speaking, she collapsed again, because she was out of breath.
But the king was troubled, and all his servants consoled her.