Then I, the prisoner in the Lord, exhort you to walk worthily of the calling in which you were called,
with all humility and meekness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love,
being eager to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
There is one body and one Spirit, even as you also were called in one hope of your calling;
one Lord, one faith, one baptism,
one God and Father of all, He above all and through all and in you all.
But to each one of us was given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
Because of this, He says, "Having gone up on high, He led captivity captive," and gave "gifts to men." Psa. 68:18
But that He went up, what is it except that He also first came down into the lower parts of the earth?
He that came down is the same who also went up above all the heavens, that He might fill all things.
And indeed He gave some to be apostles; and some prophets; and some evangelists; and some pastors and teachers;
with a view to the perfecting of the saints for the work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ,
until we all may come to the unity of the faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, to a full-grown man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
so that we may no longer be infants, having been blown and carried to and fro by every wind of doctrine, in the underhandedness of men, in craftiness with a view to the trickery of error,
but speaking the truth in love, we may grow up into Him in all things, who is the head, the Christ,
from whom all the body, having been fitted and compacted together through every assisting bond, according to the effectual working of one measure in each part, produces the growth of the body to the building up of itself in love.
Therefore, I say this, and testify in the Lord, that you no longer walk even as also the rest of the nations walk, in the vanity of their mind,
having been darkened in the understanding, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance which is in them because of the hardness of their heart,
who, having cast off all feeling, gave themselves up to lust, for the working of all uncleanness with greediness.
But you have not so learned Christ,
if indeed you heard Him and were taught in Him, as the truth is in Jesus.
for you have put off the old man, as regards the former behavior, having been corrupted according to the deceitful lusts,
and to be renewed in the spirit of your mind,
and to put on the new man, which according to God was created in righteousness and true holiness.
Therefore, putting off the false," speak truth each with his neighbor," because we are members of one another. Zech. 8:16
"Be angry but do not sin;" do not let the sun go down on your wrath, LXX-Psa. 4:4; MT-Psa. 4:5
nor give place to the Devil.
The one stealing, let him steal no more, but rather let him labor, working what is good with the hands, that he may have something to give to the one that has need.
Let not any filthy word go out of your mouth, but if any is good to building up in respect to the need, that it may give grace to the ones hearing.
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed to the day of redemption.
Let all bitterness, and anger, and wrath, and tumult, and evil speaking be put away from you, along with all evil things.
And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, having forgiven one another, even as also God forgave you in Christ.