And Samuel said to all Israel, Behold, I have heard your voice, to all that you said to me, and I made a king to reign over you.
And now, behold, the king is walking before you, but I am old and gray. And, behold, my sons, they are with you. And I have walked before your face from my youth until this day.
Behold, I am here! Testify against me before Jehovah and before His anointed: Whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I offended? Whom have I abused, and from whose hand have I taken a bribe that I might hide my eyes with it; and I will give back to you.
And they said, You have not oppressed us, and you have not abused us, and you have not taken from the hand of any man.
And he said to them, Jehovah is witness against you, and His anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And Samuel said to the people, It is Jehovah who made Moses and Aaron, and who caused your fathers to go up from the land of Egypt.
And now stand, and I will contend with you before the face of Jehovah regarding all the righteous acts of Jehovah which He did with you and with your fathers.
When Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers cried to Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron; and they brought your fathers out from Egypt and made them dwell in this place.
And they forgot Jehovah their God. And He sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
And they cried to Jehovah and said, We have sinned, for we forsook Jehovah and served the Baals and the Ashtoreths, but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies and we will serve You.
And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you from the hand of your enemies from all around; and you lived securely.
And you saw that Nahash the king of the sons of Ammon came against you, and you said to me, No, for a king shall reign over us even though Jehovah your God was king over you.
And now, behold the king whom you chose, whom you requested. And behold Jehovah gave a king over you.
If you will fear Jehovah and serve Him, and listen to His voice, and do not rebel against the mouth of Jehovah, then you, both you and also the king who reigns over you, shall follow Jehovah your God.
But if you will not listen to the voice of Jehovah, and you rebel against the mouth of Jehovah, then the hand of Jehovah shall be against you and against your fathers.
Also, now present yourselves and see this great thing that Jehovah will do before your eyes.
Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call to Jehovah and He will give sounds and rain. And know and see that your evil is great, that which you have done in the eyes of Jehovah, to ask a king for yourselves.
And Samuel called to Jehovah. And Jehovah gave sounds and rain in that day. And all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And all the people said to Samuel, Pray to Jehovah your God for your servants, and not we will die, for we have added this evil to all our sins to ask a king for ourselves.
And Samuel said to the people, Do not fear. You have done all this evil, only do not turn aside from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And do not turn aside to go after worthless things which do not profit and do not deliver, for they are worthless.
For Jehovah will not abandon His people, for the sake of His great name. For Jehovah undertakes to make you a people for Himself.
Also I, far be it from me from sinning against Jehovah, from ceasing to pray for you. But I will instruct you in the good and the right way.
Only fear Jehovah and serve Him in truth with all your heart, for see that He has done great things for you.
But if you still do evilly, both you and your king will be swept away.