And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Send men for you, and they shall spy out the land of Canaan which I am giving to the sons of Israel; you shall send one man for the tribe of his fathers, one man, every one a leader among them.
And by the command of Jehovah Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran they were all of them men, heads of the sons of Israel.
And these were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur;
of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;
of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh;
of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph;
of the tribe of Ephraim, Joshua the son of Nun;
of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;
of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi;
of the tribe of Joseph, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi;
of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli;
of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;
of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;
of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
These were the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun, Joshua.
And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said to them, You go up this way into the Negeb, and go up into the hills;
and you shall see the land, what it is , and the people who are living on it, whether it is strong or feeble; whether it is few or many;
and what the land is in which they live, whether good or bad; and what are the cities in which they live, whether in camps or in fortresses;
and what the land is , whether it is fat or lean; whether wood is in it or not. And you shall make yourselves strong and shall take of the fruit of the land. And it was the days of the firstripe grapes.
And they went up and spied out the land, from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, at the entrance to Hamath.
And they went up into the Negeb, and came to Hebron. And Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the sons of Anak, were there. And Hebron had been built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.
And they came in to the valley of Eshcol, and cut down from there a branch and one cluster of grapes. And they carried it on a staff by two; also of the pomegranates, and of the figs.
That place was called the Torrent of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the sons of Israel cut from there.
And they returned from spying out the land at the end of forty days.
And they traveled and came in to Moses and to Aaron, and to all the tabernacle of the congregation of the sons of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh. And they brought them and all the congregation word, and showed them the fruit of the land.
And they reported to him and said, We came to the land where you sent us, and it surely does flow with milk and honey; and this is its fruit.
But the people that live in the land are fierce, and the cities are fortified, very great. And also we have seen the children of Anak there.
Amalek lives in the land of the Negeb, and the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite live in the hills. And the Canaanite is living by the sea, and beside the Jordan.
And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, We will certainly go up, and we will seize it, for we are well able to do it.
And the men who had gone up with him said, We are not able to go up against the people, for it is stronger than we.
And they sent out an evil report of the land which they had spied out to the sons of Israel, saying, The land into which we passed, to spy it out, is a land eating up its inhabitants. And all the people we saw in its midst  were men of stature.
And we saw the giants there, the sons of Anak, of the Giants. and we were in our own eyes as grasshoppers, and so we were in their eyes.