AND the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven to the earth; and to him was given the key of the pit of the abyss of hell.
And he opened the pit of the abyss; and a smoke ascended out of the pit like the smoke of a vast furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the pit.
And out of the smoke came forth locusts upon the earth; and power was given to them, such power as the scorpions of the earth possess.
And it was told them, Hurt not the grass of the earth, nor any herb, nor any tree, but only those men who have not the seal of God in their foreheads.
And it was given them in charge that they should not kill these men outright, but that they should be tormented five months: and their torment is as the torment of a scorpion when he striketh a man.
And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and shall earnestly desire to die, and death shall fly from them.
And the figures of the locusts were like horses equipped for war; and upon their heads there were as crowns, like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men.
And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions.
And they had breastplates, as breastplates of iron: and the sound of their wings was as the rumbling of chariots of many horses rushing to battle.
And they had tails like scorpions, and there were stings in their tails: and they had power to hurt men five months.
And they had over them a king, the angel of the abyss of hell, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek he is called Appollyon.
One woe is past; and, behold, there are coming yet two woes after these.
And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a great voice from the four horns of the altar of gold which is before God,
saying to the sixth angel who held the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound at the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels were loosed, who were ready at the hour, and day, and month, and year, to kill the third part of mankind.
And the number of the armies of cavalry was two myriads of myriads and I heard the number of them.
And in this manner saw I the horses in the vision, and those who were mounted upon them, having breastplates of the colour of fire, and jacinth, and sulphur; and the horses’ heads were as the heads of lions; and out of their mouths proceeded fire and smoke and brimstone.
By these three were slain the third part of mankind, by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the sulphur, which proceeded out of their mouths.
For their powers are in their mouth, and in their tails; for their tails are like serpents, having heads, and with them they do hurt.
And the residue of mankind, who were not slain by these plagues, repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship demons, and idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of wood, and of stone: which can neither see nor hear, nor walk:
and they repented not of their murders, nor of their magical arts, nor of their whoredom, nor of their thefts.