Unto the end. A Psalm of David.  O Lord, you have examined me, and you have known me.
You have known my sitting down and my rising up again.
You have understood my thoughts from afar. My path and my fate, you have investigated.
And you have foreseen all my ways. For there is no word in my tongue.
Behold, O Lord, you have known all things: the newest and the very old. You have formed me, and you have placed your hand over me.
Your knowledge has become a wonder to me. It has been reinforced, and I am not able to prevail against it.
Where will I go from your Spirit? And where will I flee from your face?
If I ascend into heaven, you are there. If I descend into Hell, you are near.
If I assume my feathers in early morning, and dwell in the utmost parts of the sea,
even there, your hand will lead me forth, and your right hand will hold me.
And I said: Perhaps darkness will overwhelm me, and the night will be my illumination, to my delight.
But darkness will not be impenetrable to you, and night will illuminate like the day: for just as its darkness is, so also is its light.
For you have possessed my temperament. You have supported me from the womb of my mother.
I will confess to you, for you have been magnified terribly. Your works are miraculous, as my soul knows exceedingly well.
My bone, which you have made in secret, has not been hidden from you, and my substance is in accord with the lower parts of the earth.
Your eyes saw my imperfection, and all this shall be written in your book. Days will be formed, and no one shall be in them.
But to me, O God, your friends have been greatly honored. Their first ruler has been exceedingly strengthened.
I will number them, and they will be more numerous than the sand. I rose up, and I am still with you.
O God, if only you would cut down sinners. You men of blood: depart from me.
For you say in thought: They will accept your cities in vain.
Have I not hated those who hated you, Lord, and wasted away because of your enemies?
I have hated them with a perfect hatred, and they have become enemies to me.
Examine me, O God, and know my heart. Question me, and know my paths.
And see if there might be in me the way of iniquity, and lead me in the way of eternity.