And it happened, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them.
And say, Mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God. So says the Lord Jehovah to the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers and to the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword on you, and I will destroy your high places.
And your altars shall be wasted, and your pillars shall be broken. And I will make fall your slain before your idols.
And I will put the dead bodies of the sons of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your bones around your altars.
In all the places where you live, cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be deserted; so that your altars may be laid waste and become guilty, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your pillars may be cut down, and your works wiped out.
And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Yet I will leave a reminder that may be left to you some who escape the sword among the nations, when you are scattered through the lands.
And those of you who escape shall remember Me among the nations where they shall be exiled, because I was broken by their whoring heart which has departed from Me, and with their whoring eyes which go after their idols. And they shall despise themselves for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.
And they shall know that I am the LORD, and that I have not said in vain to do this evil to them.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Strike with your hand and stamp with your foot, and say, Alas, for all the evil abominations of the house of Israel! For they shall fall by the sword, and by the famine, and by the plague.
He who is afar off shall die of the plague; and he who is near shall fall by the sword; and he who remains and is under siege shall die by the famine. So I will fulfill My fury on them.
Then you shall know that I am the LORD, when their dead shall be among their idols all around their altars, on every high hill, in all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every leafy oak, the place where they offered sweet aroma to all their idols.
And I will stretch out My hand on them and make the land a waste, even more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath, in all the places where they live; and they shall know that I am the LORD.