A crowning point on the things being spoken:—such a one as this, have we, as high-priest, who hath sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,—
Of the Holy place, a public minister, and of the Real Tent, which, the Lord, pitched and not man.
For, every high-priest, for the offering of both gifts and sacrifices, is constituted; whence it was necessary for, this one also, to have something which he might offer.
If, indeed, therefore, he had been on earth, he had not, in that case, even been a priest, since there are those who are offering the gifts, according to the law:—
Who, indeed, are rendering divine service, with a glimpse and shadow, of the heavenly things; even as Moses hath received intimation, when about to complete the tent,—For see! saith he—Thou shalt make all things according to the model which hath been pointed out to thee in the mount.
But, now, hath he attained unto, a more distinguished public ministry,—by as much as of a better covenant also he is, mediator, which indeed, upon better promises, hath been legislated.
For, if, that first, had been, faultless, not, in that case, for a second, had there been sought, a place.
For, finding fault with them, he saith—Lo! days are coming, saith the Lord, when I will conclude, for the house of Israel and the house of Judah, a covenant of a new sort:
Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers, in the day when I took them by their hand, to lead them forth out of the land of Egypt,—because, they, abode not in my covenant, and, I, disregarded them, saith the Lord.
Because, this, is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel, after those days, saith the Lord:—giving my laws into their understanding, upon their hearts also, will I inscribe them: and I will become their God, and, they, shall become my people;
And in nowise shall they teach—every one his fellow-citizen, and every one his brother, saying,—Get to know the Lord! Because, all, shall know me, from the least unto the greatest of them;
Because, propitious, will I be as to their unrighteousnesses, and, of their sins, in nowise will I be mindful, any more.
In saying, Of a new sort, he hath made obsolete, the first; but, the thing that is becoming obsolete and aged, is near, disappearing!