But on the first of the week, Mary Magdalene came early to the tomb, darkness yet being on it . And she saw the stone had been removed from the tomb.
Then she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They took away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they laid Him.
Then Peter and the other disciple went out and came to the tomb.
And the two ran together, and the other disciple ran in front more quickly than Peter and came first to the tomb.
And stooping down, he saw the linens lying; however, he did not go in.
Then Simon Peter came following him, and went into the tomb and saw the linens lying.
And the grave cloth which was on His head was not lying with the linens, but was wrapped up in one place by itself.
Therefore, then the other disciple also entered, he having come first to the tomb, even he saw and believed.
For they did not yet know the Scripture, that it was necessary for Him to rise from the dead.
Then the disciples went away again to themselves.
But Mary stood outside at the tomb, weeping. Then as she wept, she stooped down into the tomb.
And she saw two angels in white, sitting one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
And they said to her, Woman, why do you weep? She said to them, Because they took away my Lord, and I do not know where they put Him.
And saying these things, she turned backward and saw Jesus standing, and did not know that it was Jesus.
Jesus said to her, Woman, why do you weep? Whom do you seek? Thinking that it was the gardener, she said to Him, Sir, if you carried Him away, tell me where you put Him, and I will take Him away.
Jesus said to her, Mary! Turning around, she said to Him, Rabboni! (that is to say, Teacher).
Jesus said to her, Do not touch Me, for I have not yet ascended to My Father. But go to My brothers and say to them, I am ascending to My Father and your Father, and My God, and your God.
Mary Magdalene came bringing word to the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that He told her these things.
Then it being evening on that day, the first of the sabbaths, and the doors having been locked where the disciples were assembled, because of fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace to you.
And saying this, He showed them His hands and side. Then seeing the Lord, the disciples rejoiced.
Then Jesus said to them again, Peace to you. As the Father has sent Me, I also send you.
And saying this, He breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit.
Of whomever you forgive the sins, they are forgiven to them. Or whomever you may retain, they are retained.
But Thomas, one of the Twelve, the one called Twin, was not with them when Jesus came.
Then the other disciples said to him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see the mark of the nails in His hands, and thrust my finger into the mark of the nails, and thrust my hand into His side, in no way will I believe.
And after eight days, His disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. The door having been locked, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you.
Then He said to Thomas, Bring your finger here and see My hands, and bring your hand and thrust into My side, and be not unbelieving, but believing.
And Thomas answered and said to Him, My Lord and my God!
Jesus said to him, Because you have seen Me, Thomas, you have believed. Blessed are the ones not seeing and believing.
Then truly Jesus did many other miracles in the presence of His disciples, which are not written in this book.
But these have been written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in His name.