Moreover, brethren, I make known unto you The joyful message, which I myself announced to you, which also ye received, in which also ye stand;
Through which also ye are being saved,—if ye hold fast, with what discourse, I announced the joyful message unto you; unless indeed, in vain, ye believed.
For I delivered unto you, among the first things, what also I received:—how that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures,
And that he was buried, and that he hath been raised, on the third day, according to the Scriptures,—
And that he appeared unto Cephas, then, to the twelve,
After that, he appeared to above five hundred brethren at once,—of whom, the greater number, remain until even now, but, some, have fallen asleep,—
After that, he appeared unto James, then, unto all the apostles,
And, last of all, just as if unto the unseasonable birth, he appeared, even unto me;
For, I, am the least of the apostles, who am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the assembly of God.
But, by favour of God, I am what I am, and, his favour, which was unto me, hath not been made void,—but, much more abundantly than they all, have I toiled, albeit not, I, but the favour of God with me.
Whether therefore, I, or, they, thus do we proclaim, and, thus did ye believe.
Now, if, Christ is proclaimed, that, from among the dead, he hath been raised, how say some, among you—resurrection of the dead, there is none?
But, if, resurrection of the dead, there is none, not even Christ, hath been raised;
And, if Christ, hath not been raised, void, after all, is our proclamation, void also, our faith,—
And we are found, even false-witnesses of God, because we have witnessed respecting God, that he raised the Christ,—whom he did not raise, if, indeed, after all, the dead are not raised!
For, if the dead are not raised, not even Christ, hath been raised;
And, if Christ hath not been raised, to no purpose, is your faith, yet, are ye in your sins!
Hence also, they who are fallen asleep in Christ, are lost:
If, in this life, in Christ, we have hoped—and that is all, we are, of all men, most to be pitied.
But, now, hath Christ been raised from among the dead,—a firstfruit of them who have fallen asleep;
For, since indeed, through a man, came death, through a man, also cometh the raising of the dead;
For, just as, in the Adam, all die, so, also, in the Christ, shall all be made alive.
But, each, in his own rank:—A firstfruit, Christ, after that, they who are the Christ’s, in his presence,
Afterwards, the end—whensoever he delivereth up the kingdom unto his God and Father, whensoever he shall bring to nought all rule and all authority and power;
For he must needs reign, until he shall put all his enemies under his feet:
As a last enemy, death, is to be destroyed;
For—He put, all things, in subjection under his feet. But, whensoever it shall be said—all things are in subjection!—it is evident that it means,—Except him who did put into subjection, unto him, the all things—
But whensoever have been put into subjection, unto him, the all things, then, the Son himself, [also] shall be put in subjection unto him who put in subjection, unto him, the all things,—that, God, may be, all things in all.
Else, what will they do, who are being immersed in behalf of the dead? If, not at all, are the dead to be raised, why are they even being immersed in their behalf?
Why also are, we, running into peril every hour?
Day by day, am I dying!—Yea! by your own boasting, brethren, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord.
If, after the manner of men, I have fought with wild-beasts at Ephesus, what, to me, the profit? If the dead are not raised, Let us eat and drink, for, tomorrow, we die.
Be not deceiving yourselves,—evil communications corrupt gentle manners:—
Wake up to sobriety, in righteousness, and be not committing sin; for some have, an ignorance of God: for shame, unto you, am I speaking!
But some one will say—How, are the dead raised? and, with what kind of body, do they come?
Simple one! What, thou, sowest, is not quickened, except it die;
And, what thou sowest, not the body that shall come into existence, dost thou sow, but a naked kernel—if it so happen, of wheat, or of any of the rest,—
Howbeit, God, giveth it a body, as he pleased, and, unto each of the seeds, a body of its own.
Not all flesh, is the same flesh; but, one, indeed, is, [the flesh] of men, and, another, the flesh of beasts, and, another, the flesh of birds, and, another, of fishes;
And there are heavenly bodies, and earthly bodies,—but, of one kind, indeed, is the glory of the heavenly, and, of another kind, is the glory of the earthly;—
One, is the glory of a sun, and, another, the glory of a moon, and, another, the glory of stars,—nay! star from star, differeth in glory.
Thus, also the resurrection of the dead: it is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption,
It is sown in dishonour, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power,
It is sown a body of the soul, it is raised a body of the spirit; if there is a body of the soul, there is also of the spirit:—
Thus, also, it is written—The first man, Adam, became, a living soul, the last Adam, a life-giving spirit.
Howbeit, not first, is the [body] of the spirit, but that, of the soul,—afterwards, that of the spirit.
The first man, is of the ground, earthy, the second man, is, of heaven:
As, the man of earth, such, also, the men of earth, and, as, the man of heaven, such, also, the men of heaven;
And, even as we have borne the image of the man of earth, let us also bear the image of the man of heaven.
And, this, I say, brethren,—that, flesh and blood, cannot inherit, God’s kingdom. Neither doth, corruption, inherit, incorruption.
Lo! a sacred secret, unto you, do I declare:—we shall not, all, sleep, but we shall, all, be changed,—
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, during the last trumpet; for it shall sound, and, the dead, shall be raised, incorruptible, and, we, shall be changed.
For this corruptible must needs clothe itself with incorruptibility, and this mortal, clothe itself, with immortality.
But, whensoever, this mortal, shall clothe itself with immortality, then, shall be brought to pass the saying that is written—Death hath been swallowed up, victoriously;
Where, O death, is thy victory? Where, O death, is thy sting?
Now, the sting of death, is, sin, and, the power of sin, is, the law;—
But, unto God, be thanks, who is giving unto us the victory, through our Lord Jesus Christ.
So, then, my beloved brethren,—become ye, steadfast, immovable, superabounding in the work of the Lord, at all times; knowing that, your toil, is not in vain in the Lord.