And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah did, and all that he killed, all the prophets by the sword.
And Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, So let the gods do, and more so, if not at this time tomorrow I will cause your life to be as the life of one of them.
And he saw, and rose up and went for his life, and came to Beersheba of Judah, and left his young man there;
and he himself went into the wilderness a day's journey, and came and sat under a certain broom tree. And he begged for his life, that he might die, and said, Enough, now, O Jehovah; take my life, for I am no better than my fathers.
And he lay down and slept under a certain broom tree; and behold, an angel touched him and said to him, Get up, eat!
And he looked, and behold, at his head was a cake on burning stones, and a jar of water; and he ate and drank, and turned and lay down.
And the angel of Jehovah returned a second time, and touched him, and said, Get up, eat, for the way is too great for you.
And he rose up and ate and drank, and went in the power of that food forty days and forty nights to the mount of God, Horeb.
And he came there to the cave, and lodged there; and behold, the word of Jehovah came to him, and said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah?
And he said, I have been very zealous for Jehovah the God of Hosts, for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant; they have thrown down Your altars, and they have killed Your prophets with the sword, and I am left, I alone, and they seek to take my life.
And he said, Go out and stand on the mountain before Jehovah. And, behold, Jehovah passed by, and a great and strong wind tearing the mountains and breaking the rocks in bits before Jehovah! Jehovah was not in the wind. And after the wind was an earthquake, but Jehovah was not in the earthquake.
And after the earthquake was a fire, but Jehovah was not in the fire; and after the fire came a still, small voice.
And it happened when Elijah heard, he wrapped his face in his robe and went out and stood at the cave opening; and, behold, a voice came to him, and it said, What are you doing here, Elijah?
And he said, I have been very zealous for Jehovah, God of Hosts for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant; they have thrown down Your altars, and they have slain Your prophets by the sword; and I, I alone, am left; and they seek to take my life.
And Jehovah said to him, Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus, and you shall go in and anoint Hazael as king over Syria;
and you shall anoint Jehu the son of Nimshi as king over Israel; and you shall anoint Elisha the son of Shaphat, of Abel-meholah, as prophet in your place.
And it shall be, he who escapes from the sword of Hazael, Jehu shall kill; and he who escapes from the sword of Jehu, Elisha shall kill.
And I have left in Israel seven thousand, all the knees that have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him.
And he left there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat; and he was plowing; twelve pairs were before him, and he was with the twelfth. And Elijah passed over to him, and threw his mantle upon him.
And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah, and said, Please let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you. And he said to him, Go back; for what have I done to you?
And he returned from following him, and took the pair of oxen, and sacrificed them, and boiled their flesh with the yoke of the oxen, and gave to the people, and they ate. Then he arose and went after Elijah and ministered to him.