These are also proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.
The glory of God is to hide a thing; but the honor of kings is to search out a matter.
The heavens for height, and the earth for depth, but the heart of kings is without searching.
Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the refiner.
Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be founded in righteousness.
Do not put yourself forth in the presence of the king, and do not stand in the place of the great;
for it is better that it should be said to you, Come up here, than that you should be put lower in the presence of a noble whom your eyes have seen.
Do not go forth quickly to fight, lest you know not what to do in the end of it, when your neighbor has put you to shame.
Debate your cause with your neighbor; and do not uncover a secret to another,
lest he who hears it put you to shame, and your evil report turn not away.
A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.
As a ring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon a hearing ear.
Like cold snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to his senders; for he makes return to his master's soul.
A man boasting himself in a false gift is like clouds and wind, but no rain.
In being slow to anger a ruler is won over, and a soft tongue breaks the bone.
Have you found honey? Eat only as much as is enough for you, lest you be filled with it and vomit it.
Withdraw your foot from your neighbor's house, lest he be weary of you and hate you.
A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.
Trust in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.
As he who takes away a garment in cold weather, as vinegar upon niter, so is he who sings songs to a heavy heart.
If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,
for you shall heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward you.
The north wind drives away rain; so does an angry face a backbiting tongue.
It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop than with a quarreling woman and to share a house.
Like cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
A righteous man falling down before the wicked is like a troubled fountain and a rotten spring.
It is not good to eat much honey; so for men to search their own glory is not glory.
He who has no rule over his own spirit is like a broken down city without a wall.