They came to the other side of the Sea — the country of the Gerasenes;
and, as soon as Jesus had got out of the boat, he met a man coming out of the tombs, who was under the power of a foul spirit,
and who made his home in the tombs. No one had ever been able to secure him, even with a chain;
for, though he had many times been left secured with fetters and chains, he had snapped the chains and broken the fetters to pieces, and no one could master him.
Night and day alike, he was continually shrieking in the tombs and among the hills, and cutting himself with stones.
Catching sight of Jesus from a distance, he ran and bowed to the ground before him,
shrieking out in a loud voice: “What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? For God’s sake do not torment me!”
For Jesus had said: “Come out from the man, you foul spirit.”
And he asked him: “What is your name?”“My name,” he said, “is Legion, for there are many of us;”
and he begged Jesus again and again not to send them away out of that country.
There was a large drove of pigs close by, feeding on the hillside;
and the spirits begged Jesus: “Send us into the pigs so that we can take possession of them.”
Jesus gave them leave. They came out, and entered into the pigs; and the drove — about two thousand in number — rushed down the steep slope into the Sea and were drowned in the Sea.
Then the men who tended them ran away, and carried the news to the town, and to the country around; and the people went to see what had happened.
When they came to Jesus, they found the possessed man sitting there, clothed and in his right mind — the man who had had the ‘Legion’ in him — and they were awe-struck.
Then those who had seen it related to them all that had happened to the possessed man, as well as about the pigs;
so they began to beg Jesus to leave their neighborhood.
As Jesus was getting into the boat, the possessed man begged him to let him stay with him.
But Jesus refused. “Go back to your home, to your own people,”he said, “and tell them of all that the Lord has done for you, and how he took pity on you.”
So the man went, and began to proclaim in the district of the Ten Towns all that Jesus had done for him; and everyone was amazed.
By the time Jesus had recrossed in the boat to the opposite shore, a great number of people had gathered to meet him, and were standing by the Sea.
One of the Presidents of the synagogue, whose name was Jaeirus, came and, as soon as he saw Jesus, threw himself at his feet with repeated entreaties.
“My little daughter,” he said, “is at the point of death; I beg you to come and place your hands on her so that her life may be spared.”
So Jesus went with him. A great number of people followed Jesus, and kept pressing around him.
Meanwhile a woman who for twelve years had suffered from hemorrhage,
and undergone much at the hands of many doctors, (spending all she had without obtaining any relief, but, on the contrary, growing worse),
heard about Jesus, came behind in the crowd, and touched his cloak.
“If I can only touch his clothes,” she said, “I will get well!”
At once her bleeding stopped, and she felt in herself that she was cured of her complaint.
Jesus at once became aware of the power that had gone out from him, and, turning around in the crowd, he said: “Who touched my clothes?”
“You see the people pressing around you,” exclaimed his disciples, “and yet you say ‘Who touched me?’”
But Jesus looked about to see who had done it.
Then the woman, in fear and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and threw herself down before him, and told him the whole truth.
“Daughter,”he said, “your faith has delivered you. Go, and peace be with you; be free from your complaint.”
Before he had finished speaking, some people from the house of the synagogue leader came and said: “Your daughter is dead! Why should you trouble the teacher further?”
But Jesus, overhearing what they were saying, said to the synagogue leader: “Do not be afraid; only have faith.”
And he allowed no one to accompany him, except Peter, James, and John, the brother of James.
Presently they reached the leader’s house, where Jesus saw a scene of confusion — people weeping and wailing incessantly.
“Why this confusion and weeping?”he said on entering. “The little child is not dead; she is asleep.”
They began to laugh at him; but he sent them all out, and then, with the child’s father and mother and his companions, went into the room where she was lying.
Taking her hand, Jesus said to her: “Taleitha, koum!”— which means ‘little girl, I am speaking to you — Rise!’
The little girl stood up at once, and began to walk about; for she was twelve years old. And, as soon as they saw it, they were overwhelmed with amazement;
but Jesus repeatedly cautioned them not to let anyone know of it, and told them to give her something to eat.