Now Jehovah said to Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, to the land that I will show thee.
And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and be thou a blessing.
And I will bless those who bless thee, and he who curses thee I will curse. And in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
So Abram went as Jehovah had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed out of Haran.
And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran, and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan. And they came into the land of Canaan.
And Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.
And Jehovah appeared to Abram, and said, I will give this land to thy seed. And there he built an altar to Jehovah, who appeared to him.
And he moved from there to the mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Ai on the east. And there he built an altar to Jehovah, and called upon the name of Jehovah.
And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the South.
And there was a famine in the land. And Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land.
And it came to pass, when he came near to enter into Egypt, that he said to Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou are a fair woman to look upon.
And it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife. And they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.
Say, I pray thee, thou are my sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and that my soul may live because of thee.
And it came to pass, that, when Abram came into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.
And the princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
And he dealt well with Abram for her sake. And he had sheep, and oxen, and he-donkeys, and men-servants, and maid-servants, and she-donkeys, and camels.
And Jehovah plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife.
And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou have done to me? Why did thou not tell me that she was thy wife?
Why did thou say, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife? Now therefore behold thy wife. Take her, and go thy way.
And Pharaoh gave men command concerning him. And they brought him on the way, and his wife, and all that he had.