At that time, said Yahweh unto me—Cut thee out two tables of stone like the first, and come up unto me into the mountain,—and make thee an ark of wood;
that I may write, upon the tables, the words which were on the first tables which thou brakest in pieces,—then shalt thou put them in the ark.
So I made an ark of acacia wood, and cut out two tables of stone like the first,—and went up the mountain, having the two tables in my hand.
And he wrote upon the tables according to the first writing—the ten words, which Yahweh had spoken unto you in the mountain, out of the midst of the fire in the day of the convocation,—and Yahweh delivered them unto me.
Then turned I, and came down out of the mountain, and put the tables in the ark which I had made,—and they have remained there, as Yahweh commanded me.
And, the sons of Israel, set forward out of Beeroth Bene-jaakan to Moserah,—there, died Aaron and was buried there, and Eleazar his son became priest in his stead.
From thence, set they forward unto the Gudgodah,—and from the Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of torrents of water.
At that time, did Yahweh separate the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of Yahweh,—to stand before Yahweh to wait upon him and to bless in his name (until this day).
For this cause, hath Levi neither portion nor inheritance with his brethren,—Yahweh, is his inheritance, as Yahweh thy God spake unto him.
But, I, stayed in the mountain according to the former days, forty days and forty nights,—and Yahweh hearkened unto me at that time also, Yahweh was not willing, to destroy thee.
So then Yahweh said unto me, Up with thee—to break away onward, before the people,—that they may enter in and possess the land, which I sware unto their fathers, to give unto them.
Now, therefore, O Israel, what is, Yahweh thy God, asking of thee,—but to revere Yahweh thy God to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve Yahweh thy God, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul:
to keep the commandments of Yahweh and his statutes, which I am commanding thee to-day,—for thy good?
Lo! unto Yahweh thy God, belong the heavens even the highest heavens,—the earth, with all that is therein.
Only unto thy fathers, Yahweh became attached so as to love them,—therefore made he choice of their seed after them—of you—out of all the peoples, (as at this day).
Therefore must ye circumcise the foreskin of your hearts,—and your necks, must ye stiffen no more.
For as touching Yahweh your God, he, is God of gods, and Lord of lords; the great the mighty, and the fearful GOD, who respecteth not persons, nor accepteth a bribe;
executing the vindication of the orphan and the widow,—and loving a sojourner, giving him food and raiment.
Therefore shall ye love the sojourner,—for sojourners, became ye in the land of Egypt.
Yahweh thy God, shalt thou revere, Him, shalt thou serve,—And unto him, shalt thou cleave, And in his name, shalt thou swear.
He, is thy song of praise, And, he, thy God,—who hath done with thee these great and fearful things, which thine own eyes have seen.
As seventy souls, went thy fathers down to Egypt,—and, now, Yahweh thy God hath made thee like the stars of the heavens for multitude.