And I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the Sea.
And all were baptized to Moses in the cloud, and in the Sea,
and all ate the same spiritual food.
And all drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank of the spiritual rock following, and that Rock was Christ.
Yet God was not pleased with most of them, "for they were scattered in the deserted place." Num. 14:16
But these things became examples for us, so that we may not be lusters after evil, even as those indeed lusted.
Neither be idolaters, even as some of them, as it has been written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and stood up to play." Ex. 32:6
Nor should we commit fornication, as some of them fornicated, and twenty three thousand fell in one day.
Neither over-tempt Christ, as some of them tempted, and perished by serpents.
Neither should you murmur, as also some of them murmured, and perished by the destroyer.
And all these things happened to those as examples, and it was written for our warning, on whom the ends of the ages have come.
So that he that thinks to stand, let him be careful that he not fall.
No temptation has taken you except what is human; but God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted above what you are able. But with the temptation, He will also make the way out, so that you may be able to bear it .
On account of this, flee from idolatry, my beloved.
I speak as to prudent ones; you judge what I say.
The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a partaking of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not a partaking of the body of Christ?
Because we, the many, are one bread, one body, for we all partake of the one bread.
Look at Israel according to flesh; are not those eating the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
What then do I say, that an idol is anything, or that an idolatrous sacrifice is anything?
But the things the nations sacrifice, " they sacrifice to demons, and not to God." Deut. 32:17 But I do not want you to become sharers of demons;
you cannot drink the cup of the Lord and a cup of demons; you cannot partake of the table of the Lord, and a table of demons.
Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? Deut. 32:21
All things are lawful to me, but not all things profit. All things are lawful to me, but not all things build up.
Let no one seek the things of himself, but each one that of the other.
Eat everything being sold in a meat market, examining nothing because of conscience,
for "the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness of it." Psa. 24:1
And if any of the unbelievers invite you, and you desire to go, eat everything set before you, examining nothing because of conscience.
But if anyone tells you, This is slain in sacrifice to idols, do not eat, because of that one pointing it out, and the conscience; for "the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness of it." Psa. 24:1
But I say conscience, not that of himself, but that of the other. For why is my freedom judged by another's conscience?
But if I partake by grace, why am I evil spoken of because of what I give thanks for ?
Then whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all things to the glory of God.
Be without offense both to Jews and Greeks, and to the church of God.
Even as I also please all in all things, not seeking my own advantage, but that of the many, that they may be saved.