When Ephraim spoke trembling, he was lifted up in Israel. But he offended in Baal, and he died.
And now they sin more and more, and they have made themselves a molten image of their silver, idols according to their own understanding, all of it the work of the craftsmen. They say to them, Let men, those who sacrifice, kiss calves.
So they shall be as the morning cloud, and as the early dew that passes away, as chaff storm driven from the threshing floor, and as the smoke out of the window.
Yet I am Jehovah, your God from the land of Egypt; and you shall know no other gods than Me. For there is no Savior besides Me.
I have known you in the wilderness, in the land of great dryness.
According to their pasture, so they were filled. They were filled, and their heart was lifted up. On account of this they have forgotten Me.
Now I am as a lion to them; I will watch by the way like a leopard.
I will meet them like a bereaved bear, and I will tear the lining of their heart; and as a lion, I will devour them there; the beast of the field shall tear them.
O Israel, you are destroyed, but your help is in Me.
Where is your king now, that he may save you in all your cities? And where are your judges of whom you said, Give to me a king and rulers?
I gave to you a king in My anger, and took him away in My fury.
The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is hidden.
The pains of a woman in travail shall come to him; he is not a wise son, for he cannot stand still in the time of the breaking forth of sons.
I will ransom them from the hand of Sheol; I will redeem them from death. O death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your ruin? Repentance is hidden from My eyes.
Though he is fruitful among brothers, an east wind shall come. The wind of Jehovah shall come up from the wilderness, and his spring shall be ashamed, and his fountain shall be dried up. He shall plunder the treasure of all desirable vessels.
Samaria shall be desolate, for she has rebelled against her God. They shall fall by the sword, their infants shall be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women shall be ripped up.