The Lord Jehovah showed me this vision: Behold, he formed locusts In the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; Behold, it was the latter growth after the king’s mowing.
And when they had devoured the grass of the land, Then said I, O Lord Jehovah, forgive, I beseech thee! How shall Jacob stand? For he is small!
Jehovah repented of this; It shall not be, said Jehovah.
The Lord Jehovah also showed me this vision: Behold, the Lord Jehovah commanded the fire to execute judgment; And it devoured the great deep, And it devoured the fields.
Then said I, O Lord Jehovah, desist, I beseech thee! How shall Jacob stand? For he is small!
Jehovah repented of this; This also shall not be, said the Lord Jehovah.
He also showed me this vision: Behold, the Lord stood upon a wall, built with a plumb-line, And in his hand was a plumb-line;
And Jehovah said to me, What seest thou, Amos? And I said, A plumb-line. And the Lord said, Behold I will set a plumb-line in the midst of my people Israel; I will not spare them any more.
The high places of Isaac shall be desolate, And the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste, And I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.
Then sent Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, To Jeroboam, the king of Israel, and said: Amos conspireth against thee in the midst of the house of Israel; The land is not able to bear all his words.
For thus hath Amos said: Jeroboam shall die by the sword, And Israel shall surely be led captive from their own land.
And Amaziah said to Amos, Go, thou seer! flee into the land of Judah! There eat thy bread, and there prophesy!
But prophesy no more at Bethel, For it is the king’s sanctuary, And it is the king’s abode.
Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah: I was no prophet, nor the son of a prophet; I was a shepherd, and a gatherer of sycamore fruit.
And Jehovah took me from the flock; And Jehovah said to me, Go, prophesy to my people Israel!
Now, therefore, hear the word of Jehovah: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Israel, And speak no word against the house of Isaac!
Therefore thus saith Jehovah: "Thy wife shall be put to shame in the city, And thy sons and daughters shall fall by the sword; Thy land shall be divided by the line, And thou shalt die in a polluted land, And Israel shall surely be led captive from his own land."