And Jehovah said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and say to him, So says Jehovah, Send away My people that they may serve Me.
And if you refuse to send them away, behold, I am about to smite all your territory with frogs.
And the river will swarm with frogs. And they shall go up and enter into your house, and into your bedroom, and on your couch, and into your servants' house, and on your people, and into your ovens and into your kneading troughs.
And the frogs will come up on you, and on your people, and on all your servants.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your hand with your staff over the rivers, over the canals, and over the pools. And bring up frogs on the land of Egypt.
And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt.
And the priests did so with their secret arts. And they brought up the frogs on the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, and said, Pray to Jehovah that He may remove the frogs from me and from my people. And I will send away the people that they may sacrifice to Jehovah.
And Moses said to Pharaoh, Glory over me. For when shall I pray for you and for your servants and for your people, to cut off the frogs from you, and from your house, that they may be left only in the river?
And he said, For tomorrow. And he said, According to your word, so that you may know that none is like Jehovah our God.
And the frogs will depart from you, and from your houses, and from your servants, and from your people. They will only be in the river.
And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh. And Moses cried to Jehovah concerning the frogs which He had set on Pharaoh.
And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses. And the frogs died from the houses, from the courts, and from the fields.
And they gathered them in heaps and heaps; and the land stunk.
And Pharaoh saw that there was relief. And he made his heart heavy, and he did not listen to them, as Jehovah had said.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your staff and strike the dust of the earth, and let it become lice in all the land of Egypt.
And they did so, and Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the earth. And the lice were on man and on beast. All the dust of the earth became lice in the land of Egypt.
And the priests performed with their secret arts to bring forth lice, and they could not. And the lice were on man and on beast.
And the priests said to Pharaoh, It is the finger of God. And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he did not listen to them, as Jehovah had said.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Get up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh. Behold, he is about to go out to the water. And say to him, So says Jehovah, Send away My people that they may serve Me.
And if you do not send away My people, behold, I am about to send swarms of flies on you, and on your servants, and on your people, and on your house. And the houses of the Egyptians will be full of swarms of flies , and also the ground on which they are .
And in that day I will separate the land of Goshen with My people resting on it, that there be no swarms of flies , so that you may know that I am Jehovah in the midst of the earth.
And I will put redemption between My people and your people. This miracle shall be for tomorrow.
And Jehovah did so. And teeming swarms of flies came into Pharaoh's house, and the house of his servants, and into all the land of Egypt. And the land was destroyed before the swarms of flies .
And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, Go! Sacrifice to your God in the land.
And Moses said, It is not right to do so, for we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to Jehovah our God. Behold! If we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us?
We will go into the wilderness, a journey of three days, and sacrifice to Jehovah our God, as He may say to us.
And Pharaoh said, I will send you away, and you may sacrifice to Jehovah your God in the wilderness; only do not go very far off. Pray for me.
And Moses said, Behold, I am about to go out from you, and to pray to Jehovah. And the swarms of flies will depart from Pharaoh, and from his servants, and from his people tomorrow. But do not let Pharaoh continue to deceive, not to send the people to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And Moses went out from Pharaoh. And he prayed to Jehovah.
And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses, and the swarms of flies departed from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; and not one was left.
And Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and he did not send away the people.