And the word of Jehovah came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
Forasmuch as I exalted thee out of the dust, and made thee prince over my people Israel, and thou have walked in the way of Jeroboam, and have made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me to anger with their sins,
behold, I will utterly sweep away Baasha and his house, and I will make thy house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
He of Baasha who dies in the city shall the dogs eat, and he of his who dies in the field shall the birds of the heavens eat.
Now the rest of the acts of Baasha, and what he did, and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
And Baasha slept with his fathers, and was buried in Tirzah, and Elah his son reigned in his stead.
And moreover the word of Jehovah came against Baasha by the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani, and against his house, both because of all the evil that he did in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger with the work of his hands in being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he smote him.
In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah, and reigned two years.
And his servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired against him. Now he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household in Tirzah.
And Zimri went in and smote him, and killed him in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead.
And it came to pass, when he began to reign, as soon as he sat on his throne, that he smote all the house of Baasha. He left him not a single man-child, neither of his kinfolks, nor of his friends.
Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha according to the word of Jehovah, which he spoke against Baasha by Jehu the prophet,
for all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned, and with which they made Israel to sin, to provoke Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities.
Now the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah. Now the people were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.
And the people who were encamped heard say, Zimri has conspired, and has also smitten the king. Therefore all Israel made Omri, the captain of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp.
And Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
And it came to pass, when Zimri saw that the city was taken, that he went into the castle of the king's house, and burnt the king's house over him with fire,
and died for his sins which he sinned in doing that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did to make Israel to sin.
Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his treason that he wrought, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts; half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king, and half followed Omri.
But the people who followed Omri prevailed against the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. So Tibni died, and Omri reigned.
In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel, and reigned twelve years. He reigned six years in Tirzah.
And he bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for two talents of silver. And he built on the hill, and called the name of the city which he built after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill, Samaria.
And Omri did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and dealt wickedly above all who were before him.
For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and in his sins with which he made Israel to sin, to provoke Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities.
Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and his might that he showed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
So Omri slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria, and Ahab his son reigned in his stead.
And in the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel. And Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years.
And Ahab the son of Omri did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah above all who were before him.
And it came to pass, as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took to wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal, and worshiped him.
And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria.
And Ahab made the Asherah. And Ahab did yet more to provoke Jehovah, the God of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him.
In his days did Hiel the Bethelite build Jericho. He laid the foundation of it with the loss of Abiram his firstborn, and set up the gates of it with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spoke by Joshua the son of Nun.