And the LORD sent Nathan to David. And he came to him and said to him, There were two men in one city, one rich and one poor.
The rich one had exceeding many flocks and herds,
but the poor one had nothing except one little ewe lamb which he had bought and nourished up. And it grew up together with him and with his sons. It ate of his own food and drank from his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was to him like a daughter.
And there came a traveler to the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd to dress for the traveler that had come to him. But he took the poor man's lamb and dressed it for the man who had come to him.
And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man. And he said to Nathan, As the Lord lives, the man who has done this shall surely die.
And he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity.
And Nathan said to David, You are the man! So says the LORD God of Israel, I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul.
And I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your bosom, and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah. And if that was too little, I would have given to you such and such things besides.
Why have you despised the word of the LORD, to do evil in His sight? You have stricken Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the sons of Ammon.
And therefore, the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised Me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.
So says the LORD, Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house, and I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor. And he shall lie with your wives in the sight of this sun.
For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun.
And David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the LORD. And Nathan said to David, The LORD also has put away your sin; you shall not die.
Only, because by this deed you have given great occasion to the enemies of the LORD to blaspheme, this child born to you shall surely die.
And Nathan left to go to his house. And the LORD struck the child that Uriah's wife bore to David, and it was very sick.
And David prayed to God for the child. And David fasted, and went in and lay all night upon the earth.
And the elders of his house rose up toward to him, to raise him up from the earth. But he would not, neither did he eat bread with them.
And it happened on the seventh day, the child died. And the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead. For they said, Behold, while the child was still alive we spoke to him, and he would not listen to our voice. How then will he trouble himself if we tell him that the child is dead?
But David saw that his servants whispered. And David understood that the child was dead. And David said to his servants, Is the boy dead? And they said, He is dead.
And David arose from the earth and washed, and anointed himself, and changed his clothing, and came into the house of the LORD and worshiped. And he came to his house, and commanded, and they brought bread before him and he ate.
Then his servants said to him, What is this that you have done? You fasted and wept for the living boy, but when the child was dead you arose and ate bread!
And he said, While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept; for I said, Who can tell if God will be gracious to me so that the child may live?
But now he is dead; why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me.
And David comforted his wife Bathsheba. And he went in to her and lay with her. And she bore a son. And he called his name Solomon. And the LORD loved him.
And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and he called his name Jedidiah, because of Jehovah.
And Joab fought against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, and took the royal city.
And Joab sent messengers to David and said, I have fought against Rabbah, and have taken the city of waters.
And therefore gather the rest of the people together, and camp against the city and take it, lest I take the city and it be called after my name.
And David gathered all the people and went to Rabbah, and fought against it and took it.
And he took the king's crown from off his head, the weight of which was a talent of gold, and a precious stone in it. And it was set on David's head. And he brought forth the spoil of the city in great abundance.
And he brought forth the people that were in it, and put them to the saw, and to sharp tools of iron, and to axes of iron. And he made them go over into the brick-kiln. And so he did to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. And David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.