Let bondmen, as many as are under a yoke, regard their own masters worthy of all respect, so that the name of God and the doctrine may not be blasphemed.
And those who have believing masters, let them not disparage them because they are brothers, instead let them serve more because they are believers and beloved-those who are recipients of the benefit. Teach and exhort these things.
If any man teaches something different, and does not associate with wholesome words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine according to piety,
he is puffed up, understanding nothing, but doting about disputes and word controversies, from which develop envy, strife, revilings, evil surmisings,
constant frictions of men corrupted in mind, and destitute of the truth, supposing piety to be a means of gain. Withdraw from such.
But piety with contentment is great gain,
for we brought nothing into the world. It is clear that neither can we carry anything out,
but having food and covering we will be content with these.
But those who want to be rich fall into a temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful lusts, which sink men in destruction and ruin.
For the love of money is a root of all the evils, of which some aspiring have wandered from the faith, and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
But thou, O man of God, flee these things, and pursue righteousness, piety, faith, love, patience, meekness.
Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life for which thou are called, and confessed the good confession in the sight of many witnesses.
I command thee in the sight of God, who makes all live, and of Christ Jesus, who testified to Pontius Pilate the good confession,
that thou keep the commandment, without spot, blameless, until the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which he will show in his own times, the blessed and only Potentate, the King of those who are kings, and Lord of those who are lords,
who alone has immortality, dwelling in irreproachable light, whom no man has seen, nor can see, to whom is honor and eternal dominion. Truly.
Command the rich in the present age not to be arrogant, nor hope in the uncertainty of wealth, but in the living God, who supplies us all things abundantly for enjoyment,
to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous, willing to share,
storing up for themselves a good foundation for that which is coming, so that they may take hold of the eternal life.
O Timothy, keep the entrustment, avoiding the profane babblings and objections of the falsely-called knowledge,
which some men professing have missed the mark concerning the faith. Grace is with thee. Truly.