And after these things Jesus was walking in Galilee; for He did not desire to walk in Judea, because the Jews were lusting to kill Him.
And the Jewish Feast of the Tabernacles was near.
Then His brothers said to Him, Move away from here and go to Judea, that your disciples will also see your works which you do,
for no one does anything in secret and himself seeks to be in public. If you do these things, reveal yourself to the world.
For His brothers did not believe into Him.
Then Jesus said to them, My time is not yet here, but your time is always ready.
The world cannot hate you; but it hates Me because I witness about it, that its works are evil.
You go up to this feast. I am not yet going up to the feast, for My time has not yet been fulfilled.
And saying these things to them, He remained in Galilee.
But when His brothers went up, then He also went up to the feast, not openly, but as in secret.
Then the Jews sought Him in the feast, and said, Where is He?
And much murmuring about Him was in the crowds. Some said, He is a good one; but others said, No, but he deceives the crowd.
However, no one publicly spoke about Him, because of the fear of the Jews.
But the feast now being half over, Jesus went up to the temple and taught.
And the Jews marveled, saying, How does this one know letters, not being taught?
Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not Mine, but of the One who sent Me.
If anyone desires to do His will, he will know concerning the doctrine, whether it is of God, or I speak from Myself.
The one speaking from himself seeks his own glory. But the one seeking the glory of the One who sent Him, this One is true, and unrighteousness is not in Him.
Has not Moses given you the Law, and not one of you does the Law? Why do you lust to kill Me?
The crowd answered and said, You have a demon. Who lusts to kill you?
Jesus answered and said to them, I did one work, and you all marvel.
Because of this Moses has given you circumcision; (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers); and on a sabbath, you circumcise a man.
If a man receives circumcision on a sabbath, that the Law of Moses is not broken, are you angry with Me because I made a man entirely sound on a sabbath?
Do not judge according to sight, but judge righteous judgment.
Then some of the Jerusalemites said, Is this not the one they are seeking to kill?
And, behold, He speaks publicly, and they say nothing to him. Perhaps the rulers truly knew that this is indeed the Christ?
But we know this one, from where he is. But when the Christ comes, no one knows from where He is.
Then teaching, Jesus cried out in the temple, even saying, You both know Me, and you know from where I am. And I have not come from Myself, but He sending Me is true, whom you do not know.
But I know Him, because I am from Him; and He sent Me.
Then they sought to seize Him; yet no one laid a hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.
But many of the crowd believed into Him, and said, The Christ, when He comes will He do more miracles than these which this One did?
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers, that they might seize Him.
Then Jesus said to them, Yet a little while I am with you, and I go to Him who sent Me.
You will seek Me, and will not find Me ; and where I am, you are not able to come.
Then the Jews said amongst themselves, Where is this one about to go that we will not find him? Is he about to go to the Dispersion of the Greeks, and to teach the Greeks?
What is this word which he said, You will seek Me and will not find Me , and, Where I am, you are not able to come?
And in the last day of the great feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink.
The one believing into Me, as the Scripture said, Out of his belly will flow rivers of living water. No OT passage
But He said this concerning the Spirit, whom the ones believing into Him were about to receive; for the Holy Spirit was not yet given , because Jesus was not yet glorified.
Then hearing the word, many of the crowd said, This is truly the Prophet.
Others said, This is the Christ. But others said, No! For does the Christ come out of Galilee?
Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was? Mic. 5:2
Therefore, a division occurred in the crowd because of Him.
And some of them desired to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him.
Then the officers came to the chief priests and Pharisees. And they said to them, Why did you not bring him?
The officers answered, Never did a man so speak as does this man.
Then the Pharisees answered them, Have you not also been deceived?
Not any from the rulers or from the Pharisees believed into him?
But not knowing the Law, this crowd is cursed.
Nicodemus said to them, the one coming by night to Him, being one of themselves,
Does our Law judge the Man unless it hear from him first, and know what he does?
They answered and said to him, Are you also from Galilee? Search and see that a prophet has not been raised out of Galilee.
And they each one went to his house.