And as they were returning, they came through to Haran, which is in the middle of the journey, opposite Nineveh, on the eleventh day.
And the Angel said: “Brother Tobias, you know how you left behind your father.
And so, if it pleases you, let us go on ahead, and let the family follow after us with a slower step, together with your bride, and with the animals.”
And since it pleased him to go on in this way, Raphael said to Tobias, “Take with you from the gall of the fish, for it will be necessary.” And so, Tobias took from its gall, and he went ahead.
But Anna sat beside the way every day, on the top of a hill, from where she would be able to see for a long distance.
And while she was watching for his arrival from that place, she looked far off, and soon she realized that her son was approaching. And running, she reported it to her husband, saying: “Behold, your son arrives.”
And Raphael said to Tobias: “As soon as you enter into your house, immediately adore the Lord your God. And, giving thanks to him, approach your father, and kiss him.
And immediately anoint his eyes from this gall of the fish, which you carry with you. For you should know that his eyes will soon be opened, and your father will see the light of heaven, and he will rejoice at the sight of you.”
Then the dog, which had been with them in the way, ran ahead, and, arriving like a messenger, he showed his joy by fawning and wagging his tail.
And rising up, his blind father began to run, stumbling with his feet. And giving his hand to a servant, he ran on to meet his son.
And receiving him, he kissed him, as did his wife, and they both began to weep for joy.
And when they had adored God and had given thanks, they sat down together.
Then Tobias, taking from the gall of the fish, anointed his father’s eyes.
And about half an hour passed, and then a white film began to come out of his eyes, like the membrane of an egg.
So, taking hold of it, Tobias pulled it away from his eyes, and immediately he received his sight.
And they glorified God: Tobit especially, and his wife, and all those who knew him.
And Tobit said, “I bless you, O Lord God of Israel, because you have chastised me, and you have saved me, and behold, I see my son Tobias.”
And then, after seven days, Sarah, the wife of his son, and all the family arrived safely, along with the sheep, and the camels, and much money from his wife, but also with that money which he had received from Gabael.
And he explained to his parents all the benefits from God, which he had produced all around him, by means of the man who had led him.
And then Ahikar and Nadab arrived, the maternal first cousins of Tobias, rejoicing for Tobias, and congratulating with him for all the good things that God had revealed all around him.
And for seven days they feasted, and all were rejoicing with great joy.