And he entered, and passed through Jericho.
And, behold, there was a man called Zacchæus, who was a chief publican; and he was rich.
And he sought to see Jesus, who he was, and was not able on account of the multitude, because he was of small stature.
And he ran before, and climbed up a sycamore-tree, that he might see him, for he was about to pass that way.
And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him, and said to him: Zacchæus, make haste and come down, for I must spend this day at your house.
And he made haste and came down, and received him joyfully.
And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying: He has gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner.
And Zacchæus stood, and said to the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken from any one by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.
And Jesus said to him: To-day has salvation come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham.
For the Son of man has come to seek and to save that which was lost.
And as they heard these things, he also spoke a parable, because he was near Jerusalem, and they thought that the kingdom of God would immediately appear.
He said, therefore: A certain nobleman went into a distant country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
And he called his ten servants, and gave them ten pounds, and said to them, Engage in trade till I come.
But his citizens hated him, and sent an embassy after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign over us.
And it came to pass, that, when he had returned, having received the kingdom, he commanded those servants to be called, to whom he had given the money, that he might know what each had gained by trading.
And the first came and said: Lord, your pound has gained ten pounds.
And he said to him: Well done, good servant; because you have been faithful in a very little, have authority over ten cities.
And the second came and said: Lord, your pound has gained five pounds.
And he said to him also: And be you over five cities.
And another came and said: Lord, behold your pound, which I have kept laid away in a napkin.
For I was afraid of you, because you are a hard man; you take up that which you did not lay down, and reap that which you did not sow.
Then he said to him: Out of your own mouth will I judge you, you wicked servant. You knew that I was a hard man, taking up what I did not lay down, and reaping what I did not sow.
And why then did you not put my money into the bank, that, when I came, I could have collected it with interest?
And he said to those who stood by: Take from him the pound, and give it to him that has ten pounds.
And they said to him: Lord, he has ten pounds.
For I say to you, To every one that has, it shall be given; but from him that has not, even that which he has shall be taken away.
But those who are my enemies, who were not willing that I should rule over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.
And when he had said these things, he went before, going up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass, that, when he came near to Bethphage and Bethany, to the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
saying: Go into the opposite village, in which, when you enter, you will find a colt tied, on which no man ever sat. Loose him, and bring him.
And if any one ask you why you loose him, thus shall you say to him: The Lord has need of him.
And those who were sent, went, and found as he had said to them.
And as they were loosing the colt, the owners of him said to them: Why do you loose the colt?
They replied: The Lord has need of him.
And they brought him to Jesus, and threw their mantles upon the colt, and set Jesus on him.
And as he was going on, they spread their mantles in the road.
And when he was now near the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and to praise God, with a loud voice, for all the mighty deeds which they had seen,
saying: Blessed is the king that comes in the name of the Lord; peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude, said to him: Teacher, rebuke your disciples.
And he answered, and said to them: I say to you, that if these had been silent, the stones would have cried out.
And when he came near, he looked upon the city, and wept over it,
saying: Hadst thou known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which were for thy peace! But now, they are hid from thy eyes.
For the days will come upon thee, when thy enemies will throw up a mound about thee, and inclose thee around, and keep thee in on every side,
and will destroy thee and thy children within thee, and will not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.
And he went into the temple, and began to drive out those who were selling in it, and those who were buying,
and said to them: It is written, My house is a house of prayer; but you have made it a den of robbers.
And he was teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests, and the scribes, and the chief of the people sought to destroy him,
and found nothing that they could do, for all the people hung on his words.