And going in, He passed through Jericho.
And behold, there was a man named Zaccheus, who was a chief tax-collector. And he was rich.
And he sought to see Jesus, to see who He was. And he could not because of the press, because he was little in stature.
And he ran in front and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see Him. For He was to pass through that way.
And when Jesus came to the place, He looked up and saw him. And He said to him, Zaccheus! Hurry and come down, for today I must stay at your house.
And hurrying he came down, and received Him joyfully.
And seeing, they all murmured, saying, He has gone in to stay with a sinful man.
And Zaccheus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor. And in anything I accused anyone falsely, I restore it fourfold.
And Jesus said to him, This day salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham.
For the Son of man has come to seek and to save that which was lost.
And as they heard these things, He added and spoke a parable, because He was near Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God was about to appear immediately.
Therefore He said, A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive a kingdom for himself, and to return.
And He called his ten servants and delivered ten minas, and said to them, Trade until I come back.
But his citizens hated him. And they sent a message after him, saying, We will not have this one to reign over us.
And when he had received his kingdom and had returned, then it happened that he commanded these servants to be called to him; the ones to whom he had given the silver; so that he might know what each had gained by trading.
And came the first, saying, Lord, your mina has gained ten minas.
And he said to him, Well done, good servant, because you have been faithful in a very little, have authority over ten cities.
And the second came, saying, Lord, your mina has made five minas.
And he said the same to him, You be over five cities.
And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is your mina, which I have kept in a handkerchief.
For I feared you, because you are a harsh man. You take up what you did not lay down, and you reap what you did not sow.
And he said to him, I will judge you out of your own mouth, wicked servant! You knew that I was a harsh man, taking up what I had not laid down and reaping what I did not sow.
And why did you not give my silver on the bank table, and coming I might have exacted it with interest?
And he said to those who stood by, Take the mina from him and give it to him who has ten minas.
And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas.
For I say to you that to everyone who has, more will be given. And from him who has not, even that which he has will be taken from him.
But those who are my enemies, who did not desire that I should reign over them, bring them here and slay them before me.
And saying these things, He went in front, going up to Jerusalem.
And it happened as He drew near Bethphage and Bethany, toward the mount called Mount of Olives, He sent two of the disciples,
saying, Go into the village across from you, and having entered, you will find a colt tied up, on which no one of men has yet sat. Untie it and bring it.
And if anyone asks you, Why are you untying it? You will say this to him, Because the Lord has need of it.
And going, those who were sent found as He had said to them.
And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, Why are you untying the colt?
And they said, The Lord has need of him.
And they brought him to Jesus. And they threw their garments on the colt. And they set Jesus on it.
And as He went, they spread their clothes in the way.
And when He had come near, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works which they had seen,
saying, Blessed is the King coming in the name of the Lord! Peace in Heaven and glory in the highest!
And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to Him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples.
And He answered and said to them, I tell you that if these should be silent, the stones would cry out.
And as He drew near, He beheld the city and wept over it,
saying, If you had known, even you, even at least in this day of yours, the things for your peace! But now they are hidden from your eyes.
For the days will come on you that your enemies will raise up a rampart to you, and will surround you, and will keep you in on every side.
And they will tear you down, and your children within you, and will not leave a stone on a stone because you did not know the time of your visitation.
And entering into the temple, He began to cast out those selling and buying in it,
saying to them, It is written, "My house is a house of prayer," but you have made it a den of thieves.
And He taught in the temple daily. But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy Him.
And they could not find what they might do, for all the people were hanging on Him, listening.