Now, brothers, concerning the coming of our Lord Yeshua the Messiah, and our gathering together to him, we ask you
not to be quickly shaken in your mind, nor yet be troubled, either by spirit, or by word, or by letter as from us, saying that the day of the Lord had come.
Let no one deceive you in any way. For it will not be, unless the departure comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction,
he who opposes and exalts himself against all that is called God or that is worshiped; so that he sits in the temple of God, setting himself up as God.
Do you not remember that, when I was still with you, I told you these things?
Now you know what is restraining him, to the end that he may be revealed in his own season.
For the mystery of lawlessness already works. Only there is one who restrains now, until he is taken out of the way.
Then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will kill with the breath of his mouth, and destroy by the manifestation of his coming;
even he whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
and with all deception of wickedness for those who are being lost, because they did not receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved.
Because of this, God sends them a working of error, that they should believe a lie;
that they all might be judged who did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
But we are bound to always give thanks to God for you, brothers loved by the Lord, because God chose you as first fruits for salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief in the truth;
to which he called you through our Good News, for the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Yeshua the Messiah.
So then, brothers, stand firm, and hold the traditions which you were taught by us, whether by word, or by letter.
Now our Lord Yeshua the Messiah himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace,
comfort your hearts and establish you in every good work and word.