Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, The city where David dwelt! Add year to year, Let the festivals go round,
Then will I distress Ariel; Mourning and sorrow shall be there; Yet shall she be to me as Ariel [the lion of God].
I will encamp against thee round about, And I will lay siege against thee with a mound, And I will raise towers against thee.
Thou shalt be brought down, and speak from the ground, And thy speech shall be low from the dust; Thy voice shall be like that of a spirit under ground, And thy speech shall chirp as from the dust.
Yet shall the multitude of thine enemies be like fine dust; The multitude of the terrible like flying chaff; It shall take place suddenly, in a moment.
From Jehovah of hosts cometh the visitation With thunder, and earthquake, and great noise, With storm and tempest, And flames of devouring fire.
As a dream, a vision of the night, Shall be the multitude of all the nations That fight against Ariel, That fight against her and her fortress, And distress her.
As a hungry man dreameth, and lo! he eateth, But awaketh and is still hungry; And as a thirsty man dreameth, and lo! he drinketh, But awaketh, and lo! he is faint and thirsty; So shall it be with the multitude of all the nations That fight against mount Zion.
Be in amazement and be amazed! Be blinded and be blind! They are drunk, but not with wine; They stagger, but not with strong drink!
For Jehovah hath poured upon you a spirit of slumber; He hath closed your eyes, the prophets, And covered your heads, the seers;
And so every vision is to you as the words of a sealed book, Which is given to a man that is skilled in writing, Saying, "Read this, I pray thee"; But he answereth, "I cannot, for it is sealed."
Or, if he give it to one that is not skilled in writing, Saying, "Read this, I pray thee," He answereth, "I am not skilled in writing."
Therefore saith the Lord, Since this people draweth near to me with their mouth, And honoreth me with their lips, While their heart is far from me, And their worship of me is according to the commandments of men,
Therefore, behold, I will proceed to deal marvellously with this people; Marvellously and wonderfully, For the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, And the prudence of the prudent shall be hid.
Woe to them that hide deep their purposes from Jehovah, Whose work is in darkness; That say, Who seeth us? Who knoweth us?
Alas, your perverseness! Is the potter to be esteemed as the clay, That the work should say of its maker, He made me not? And the thing formed say of him that formed it, He hath no understanding?
Is it not yet a very little while, And Lebanon shall be changed to a fruitful field, And the fruitful field be esteemed a forest.
And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, And out of mist and darkness shall the eyes of the blind see.
The afflicted shall exceedingly rejoice in Jehovah, And the poor shall exult in the Holy One of Israel.
For the oppressor hath come to naught; the scoffer is destroyed; And all that watched for iniquity are cut off;
Who condemned a man in his cause, And laid snares for him who defended himself in the gate, And with falsehood caused the righteous to fail.
Therefore concerning the house of Jacob thus saith Jehovah, He that redeemed Abraham: No more shall Jacob be ashamed, And no more shall his face grow pale.
For when his children behold the work of my hands in the midst of them, They shall honor my name. They shall honor the Holy One of Jacob, And reverence the God of Israel.
They that erred in spirit shall come to understanding, And the obstinate shall receive instruction.