Therefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings, and all evil speakings,
desire the sincere milk of the word, as newborn babes, so that you may grow by it;
if truly you have tasted that the Lord is gracious.
For having been drawn to Him, a living Stone, indeed rejected by men, but elect, precious with God;
you also as living stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
Therefore also it is contained in the Scripture: "Behold, I lay in Zion a chief corner Stone, elect, precious, and he who believes on Him shall never be ashamed."
Therefore to you who believe is the honor. But to those who are disobedient, He is the Stone which the builders rejected; this One came to be the Head of the corner,
and a Stone-of-stumbling and a Rock-of-offense to those disobeying, who stumble at the word, to which they also were appointed.
But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for possession, so that you might speak of the praises of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light;
you who then were not a people, but now the people of God, those not pitied then, but now pitied.
Dearly beloved, I exhort you as temporary residents and pilgrims to abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul,
having your conduct honest among the nations, in that which they speak against you as evildoers, they may glorify God in a day of His visitation, seeing your good works.
Then be in obedience to every ordinance of men, because of the Lord, whether to a king as supreme,
or to governors as sent by Him for vengeance on evildoers, but for praise on well-doers.
For such is the will of God, doing good to silence the ignorance of foolish men;
as free, and not having freedom as a cover of evil, but as servants of God.
Honor all. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.
Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to those good and forbearing, but also to the perverse ones.
For this is a grace, if for conscience toward God anyone endures grief, suffering wrongfully.
For what glory is it if you patiently endure while sinning and being buffeted? But if you suffer while doing good, and patiently endure, this is a grace from God.
For you were not called to this? For Christ also suffered on our behalf, leaving us an example, that you should follow His steps,
He who did no sin, nor was guile found in His mouth,
who when He was reviled did not revile in return. When He suffered, He did not threaten, but gave Himself up to Him who judges righteously.
He Himself bore our sins in His own body on the tree, that dying to sins, we might live to righteousness; by whose stripes you were healed.
For you were as sheep going astray, but now you are turned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.