And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and let them take an offering for Me. From every man whose heart impels him, let them take My offering.
And this is the offering which you shall take from them: gold, and silver, and bronze;
and blue, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen, and goats hair;
and rams' skin dyed red, and dugong skins, and acacia wood;
oil for the light, spices for the oil of anointing, and for the incense of perfumes;
onyx stones, and stones for setting, for the ephod, and for the breast pocket.
And let them make a sanctuary for Me, that I may dwell in their midst.
According to all which I am going to reveal to you, the plan of the tabernacle, and the plan of all its vessels, even so you shall do.
And they shall make an ark of acacia wood, two and a half cubits long, and a cubit and a half wide, and a cubit and a half high.
And you shall overlay it with pure gold; you shall overlay it inside and outside. And you shall make a wreath of gold all around on it.
And you shall cast four rings of gold for it, and shall put it on its four feet; two rings on the one side, and two rings on the second side.
And you shall make poles of acacia wood, and you shall overlay them with gold.
And you shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to carry the ark by them.
The poles shall be in the rings of the ark; they shall not depart from it.
And you shall put the testimony into the ark, which I shall give to you.
And you shall make a mercyseat of pure gold, its length two and a half cubits, and its width a cubit and a half.
And you shall make two cherubs of gold; you shall make them of beaten work from the two ends of the mercyseat.
And make one cherub from the end here, and one cherub from the end there. You shall make the cherubs from the mercyseat, on its two ends.
And the cherubs shall be spreading out wings above, covering the mercyseat with their wings, and their faces each toward its brother; the faces of the cherubs shall be toward the mercyseat.
And you shall put the mercyseat on the ark from above. And you shall put the testimony into the ark, which I shall give to you.
And I will meet you there, and will speak with you, above the mercyseat, from between the two cherubs which are on the ark of testimony, all which I shall command you concerning the sons of Israel.
And you shall make a table of acacia wood, its length two cubits, and its width a cubit, and its height a cubit and a half.
And you shall overlay it with pure gold, and you shall make it a wreath of gold all around.
And you shall make a border of a hand's breadth for it all around. And you shall make a wreath of gold all around on its border.
And you shall make four rings of gold for it, and you shall put the rings on the four corners which are to its four feet.
The rings shall be near the border for housings for the poles to carry the table.
And you shall make the poles of acacia wood, and you shall overlay them with gold. And the table shall be carried by them.
And you shall make its platters, and its bowls, and its pitchers, and its sacrificial cups with which a drink offering is made. You shall make them of pure gold.
And you shall put the Bread of the Presence on the table before Me continually.
And you shall make a lampstand of pure gold. The lampstand shall be made of beaten work; its base and its shaft, its calyxes, its knobs, and its blossoms shall be from it.
And six branches shall go out from its sides, three branches of the lamp from its one side and three branches of the lampstand from its second side;
three almond like calyxes on the one branch with knob and blossom; and three almond like calyxes on the one branch with knob and blossom, so for the six branches, those going out from the lampstand.
And on the lampstand shall be four almond like calyxes, each with its knobs and its blossoms;
and a knob under two branches of it; and a knob under two branches of it; and a knob under two branches of it, to the six branches, those going from the lampstand.
Their knobs and their branches shall be of it, all of it one beaten work of pure gold.
And you shall make its seven lamps, and one shall set up its lamps, and they shall give light on its face.
And its tongs, and its pans shall be of pure gold.
One shall make it of a talent of pure gold, with all these vessels.
And see that they are made by their patterns which you were caused to see in the mountain.