I myself also am  mortal, like to all,
And am sprung from one born of the earth, the man  first formed,

And in the womb of a mother was I moulded into flesh in the time of ten months,
Being compacted in blood of the seed of man and pleasure that came with sleep.

And I also, when I was born, drew in the common air,
And fell upon the  kindred earth,
Uttering, like all, for my first voice, the selfsame wail:

In swaddling clothes was I nursed, and  with watchful  cares.

For no king had any other first beginning;

But all men have one entrance into life, and a like departure.

For this cause I prayed, and understanding was given me:
I called upon God,  and there came to me a spirit of wisdom.

I preferred her before sceptres and thrones,
And riches I esteemed nothing in comparison of her.

Neither did I liken to her any priceless gem,
Because all the gold of the earth  in her presence is a little sand,
And silver shall be accounted as clay before her.

Above health and comeliness I loved her,
And I chose to have her rather than light,
Because her bright shining is never laid to sleep.

But with her there came to me all good things together,
And in her hands innumerable riches:

And I rejoiced over them  all because wisdom leads them;
Though I knew not that she was the  mother of them.

As I learned without guile, I impart without grudging;
I do not hide her riches.

For she is to men a treasure that fails not,
And they that use it  obtain friendship with God,
Commended to him   by the gifts which they through discipline present to him.

But to me may God give to speak  with judgement,
And to conceive thoughts worthy of what  has been given me;
Because himself is one that guideth even wisdom and that correcteth the wise.

For in his hand are both we and our words;
All understanding, and all  acquaintance with various crafts.

For himself gave me an unerring knowledge of the things that are,
To know the constitution of the world, and the operation of the elements;

The beginning and end and middle of times,
The alternations of the solstices and the changes of seasons,

The circuits of years and the  positions of stars;

The natures of living creatures and the ragings of wild beasts,
The violences of  winds and the thoughts of men,
The diversities of plants and the virtues of roots:

All things that are either secret or manifest I learned,

For she that is the artificer of all things taught me, even  wisdom.
For there is in her a spirit quick of understanding, holy,
Alone in kind, manifold,
Subtil, freely moving,
Clear in utterance, unpolluted,
Distinct, unharmed,
Loving what is good, keen, unhindered,

Beneficent, loving toward man,
Stedfast, sure, free from care,
All-powerful, all-surveying,
And penetrating through all spirits
That are quick of understanding, pure, most subtil:

For wisdom is more mobile than any motion;
Yes, she pervadeth and penetrateth all things by reason of her pureness.

For she is a  breath of the power of God,
And a clear effluence of the glory of the Almighty;
Therefore can nothing defiled find entrance into her.

For she is an effulgence from everlasting light,
And an unspotted mirror of the working of God,
And an image of his goodness.

And she, being one, has power to do all things;
And remaining in herself, reneweth all things:
And from generation to generation passing into holy souls
She makes men  friends of God and prophets.

For nothing does God love save him that dwells with wisdom.

For she is fairer than the sun,
And above  all the constellations of the stars:
Being compared with light, she is found to be  before it;

For  to the light of day  succeedeth night,
But against wisdom evil does not prevail;
