And this is the thing that thou shall do to them to hallow them, to minister to me in the priest's office: Take one young bullock and two rams without blemish,
and unleavened bread, and cakes unleavened mingled with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil, of fine wheaten flour shall thou make them,
and thou shall put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bullock and the two rams.
And Aaron and his sons thou shall bring to the door of the tent of meeting, and shall wash them with water.
And thou shall take the garments, and put upon Aaron the tunic, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and gird him with the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
And thou shall set the miter upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the miter.
Then thou shall take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.
And thou shall bring his sons, and put tunics upon them.
And thou shall gird them with sashes, Aaron and his sons, and bind head-coverings on them. And they shall have the priesthood by a perpetual statute. And thou shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.
And thou shall bring the bullock before the tent of meeting. And Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock,
and thou shall kill the bullock before Jehovah, at the door of the tent of meeting.
And thou shall take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with thy finger, and thou shall pour out all the blood at the base of the altar.
And thou shall take all the fat that covers the inwards, and the caul upon the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.
But the flesh of the bullock, and its skin, and it dung, thou shall burn with fire outside the camp. It is a sin offering.
Thou shall also take the one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram.
And thou shall slay the ram, and thou shall take its blood, and sprinkle it round about upon the altar.
And thou shall cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its inwards, and its legs, and put them with its pieces, and with its head,
and thou shall burn the whole ram upon the altar. It is a burnt offering to Jehovah. It is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And thou shall take the other ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram.
Then thou shall kill the ram, and take of its blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
And thou shall take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him. And he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.
Also thou shall take from the ram the fat, and the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of consecration),
and one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before Jehovah,
and thou shall put the whole upon the hands of Aaron, and upon the hands of his sons, and shall wave them for a wave offering before Jehovah.
And thou shall take them from their hands, and burn them on the altar upon the burnt offering, for a sweet savor before Jehovah. It is an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And thou shall take the breast of Aaron's ram of consecration, and wave it for a wave offering before Jehovah, and it shall be thy portion.
And thou shall sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the thigh of the heave offering, which is waved, and which is heaved up, of the ram of consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons,
and it shall be for Aaron and his sons as their portion forever from the sons of Israel, for it is a heave offering. And it shall be a heave offering from the sons of Israel of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, even their heave offering to Jehovah.
And the holy garments of Aaron shall be for his sons after him, to be anointed in them, and to be consecrated in them.
Seven days shall the son that is priest in his stead put them on, when he comes into the tent of meeting to minister in the holy place.
And thou shall take the ram of consecration, and boil its flesh in a holy place.
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the tent of meeting.
And they shall eat those things with which atonement was made, to consecrate and to sanctify them, but a stranger shall not eat of it, because they are holy.
And if any of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread, remains to the morning, then thou shall burn the remainder with fire. It shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
And thus thou shall do to Aaron, and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded thee. Seven days thou shall consecrate them.
And every day thou shall offer the bullock of sin offering for atonement. And thou shall cleanse the altar when thou make atonement for it, and thou shall anoint it, to sanctify it.
Seven days thou shall make atonement for the altar, and sanctify it. And the altar shall be most holy. Whatever touches the altar shall be holy.
Now this is that which thou shall offer upon the altar: two lambs a year old day by day continually.
The one lamb thou shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb thou shall offer at evening.
And with the one lamb a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil, and the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink offering.
And the other lamb thou shall offer at evening, and shall do thereto according to the meal offering of the morning, and according to the drink offering of it, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
It shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tent of meeting before Jehovah, where I will meet with you, to speak to thee there.
And there I will meet with the sons of Israel, and the tent shall be sanctified by my glory.
And I will sanctify the tent of meeting, and the altar. I will also sanctify Aaron and his sons to minister to me in the priest's office.
And I will dwell among the sons of Israel, and will be their God.
And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell among them. I am Jehovah their God.