And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
This is the statute of the law which Jehovah has commanded, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel, that they bring you a red heifer, a perfect one, in which there is no blemish, on which no yoke ever came.
And you shall give her to Eleazar the priest, and she shall be brought forth outside the camp; and she shall be slaughtered before his face.
And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, and shall sprinkle of her blood toward the front of the tabernacle of the congregation seven times.
And the heifer shall be burned before his eyes; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood with her dung, shall be burned.
And the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop and scarlet, and shall cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he may come into the camp; and the priest shall be unclean until the evening.
And he that burned her shall wash his clothes in water, and shall bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the evening.
And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and shall lay them up outside the camp in a clean place. And it shall be kept for the congregation of the sons of Israel for a water of impurity; it is a purging offering.
And he that gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and shall be unclean until the evening; and it shall be to the sons of Israel, and to the stranger that lives among them, for a never ending statute.
He that touches the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days.
He shall cleanse himself for it on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean. And if he does not cleanse himself on the third day, then on the seventh day he shall not be clean.
Anyone who touches the dead body, the body of a man who dies, and does not cleanse himself, he shall have defiled the tabernacle of Jehovah; and that person shall be cut off from Israel, for the water of impurity shall not be sprinkled upon him. He shall be unclean; his uncleanness shall be still on him.
This is the law when a man dies in a tent: Everyone who comes into the tent, and all that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
And every open vessel which has no covering of thread on it shall be unclean.
And whoever in the open field touches one that has been pierced with a sword, or one that has died of himself, or the bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
And for the unclean they shall take the ashes of the burning of the purging offering, and running water in a vessel shall be put on it.
And a clean person shall take hyssop, and shall dip it in the water, and shall sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the persons that were there, and upon him that touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead, or the grave.
And the clean person shall sprinkle on the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day; and on the seventh day he shall purify himself; and he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at evening.
But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, that soul shall be cut off from the midst of the congregation, because he has defiled the sanctuary of Jehovah; the water for impurity has not been sprinkled on him; he shall be unclean.
And it shall be a never ending statute to them; and he that sprinkles the water of impurity shall wash his clothes; and he that touches the water of sprinkling shall be unclean until evening.
And whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean; and the soul that touches it shall be unclean until evening.