Then Eliphaz, the Temanite, answered and said,
Can a man be profitable unto God? For he that is wise is profitable unto himself.
[Is it] any pleasure to the Almighty that thou art justified? Or [is it] gain [to him] that thou makest thy ways perfect?
Will he reprove thee or will he enter with thee into judgment because he fears thee?
Certainly thy wickedness is great and thine iniquities have no end.
For thou didst take a pledge from thy brother without cause and stripped the naked of their clothing.
Thou didst not give water to drink to the weary, and thou hast withheld bread from the hungry.
But the man of means had the earth; and the honourable man dwelt in it.
Thou hast sent the widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
Therefore, snares [are] round about thee, and sudden fear troubles thee
or darkness, [that] thou canst not see, and abundance of waters cover thee.
[Is] not God in the height of the heavens? Behold the height of the stars, how high they are!
And thou shalt say, What does God know? How can he judge through the darkness?
Thick clouds are his hiding place, and he does not see; and he walks in the circuit of heaven.
Dost thou desire to keep the old way which wicked men have trodden?
Who were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown with a flood.
Who said unto God, Depart from us; and what can the Almighty do unto us?
He had filled their houses with good [things]. Therefore, the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
The righteous shall see [it] and be glad; and the innocent laughs them to scorn.
Whereas our substance was not cut down, when the fire had consumed the rest of them.
Make up thy friendship now with him, and thou shalt have peace; thereby good shall come unto thee.
Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his words in thine heart.
If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, thou shalt put away iniquity far from thy tent;
then thou shalt lay up gold as dust and the [gold] of Ophir as the stones of the brooks.
And the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou shalt have plenty of silver.
For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty and shalt lift up thy face unto God.
Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows.
Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee; and the light shall shine upon thy ways.
When [others] are cast down, then thou shalt say, [There is] lifting up; and he shall save the humble person.
He shall deliver the island of the innocent; and in the pureness of thine hands thou shalt be kept.: