O give thanks to Jehovah; call on His name; make His deeds known among the peoples.
Sing to Him; sing praises to Him; tell of all His wonders.
Glory in His holy name; let the heart of those who seek Jehovah rejoice.
Seek Jehovah and His strength; seek His face without ceasing.
Remember His wonders that He has done, His miracles, and the judgments of His mouth,
O seed of His servant Abraham; O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones,
He is Jehovah our God; His judgments are in all the earth;
He has remembered His covenant forever; the word He commanded to a thousand generations;
which He cut with Abraham, and His oath to Isaac;
and He established it to Jacob for a statute, to Israel for a perpetual covenant;
saying, To you I will give the land of Canaan, the portion of your inheritance;
when they were a few men of number; very few, and strangers in it.
And they went about from nation to nation; from one kingdom to another people.
He allowed no man to oppress them; yea, He reproved kings for their sakes;
saying , Touch not My anointed; and, Do My prophets no harm.
And He called a famine on the land; He broke the whole staff of bread.
He sent a man before them, Joseph, being sold for a slave;
they hurt his feet with chains; his soul came into iron;
until the time His word came, the word of Jehovah refined him;
the king, the ruler of peoples, sent and released him; even set him free;
he made him lord of his house, and ruler over all he owned;
to bind his leaders at his will, and to teach his elders wisdom.
Israel also came into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
And He increased His people greatly and made them stronger than their enemies.
He turned their heart to hate His people, to deal craftily with His servants.
He sent His servant Moses and Aaron whom He had chosen.
They put things of His signs among them; yea, miracles in the land of Ham.
He sent darkness and made it dark; and they did not rebel against His word.
He turned their waters into blood and killed their fish.
Their land swarmed with frogs in the rooms of their kings.
He spoke, and fly swarms came; gnats in all their borders.
He gave hail for their rain, flaming fire in their land.
He struck their vines also, and their fig trees; and He broke the trees of their borders.
He spoke, and locusts came; and larvae without number;
and they ate up all the plants in the land; yea, ate the fruit of their ground.
He also struck all the firstborn in their land, the firstfruit of all their vigor.
And He led them out with silver and gold; and among their tribes, not one was stumbling.
Egypt was glad when they went out, for their dread had fallen on them.
He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.
He asked, and He brought quail; and satisfied them with the food from the heavens.
He opened the rock, and waters gushed out; they went in the dry places like a river.
For He remembered His holy word and His servant Abraham;
and He brought His people out with joy; His chosen ones with gladness.
And He gave to them the lands of the nations; and they inherited the labor of the peoples;
so that they might observe His statutes and keep His laws. Praise Jehovah!