Adam, Seth, Enosh:
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared:
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech:
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
The sons of Japheth, Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech and Tiras.
And, the sons of Gomer, Ashkenaz, and Diphath, and Togarmah.
And, the sons of Javan, Elishah, and Tarshish,—Kittim, and Rodanim.
The sons of Ham, Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
And, the sons of Cush, Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raama, and Sabteca. And, the sons of Raamah, Sheba, and Dedan.
And, Cush, begat Nimrod,—he, began to be a mighty one in the earth.
And, Mizraim, begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
and Pathrusim, and Casluhim—whence went forth the Philistines, and Caphtorim.
And, Canaan, begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth;
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite;
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite;
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
The sons of Shem, Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram,—and Uz, and Hul, and Gethur, and Meshech.
And, Arpachshad, begat Shelah,—and, Shelah, begat Eber.
And, unto Eber, were born two sons,—the name of the one, was Peleg, for, in his days, was the earth divided, and, the name of his brother, was Joktan.
And, Joktan, begat Almodad, and Sheleph,—and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah;
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah;
and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba;
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these, were the sons of Joktan.
Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah;
Eber, Peleg, Reu;
Serug, Nahor, Terah;
Abram—the same, is Abraham.
The sons of Abraham, Isaac and Ishmael.
These, are their generations,—the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam;
Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema;
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These, are the sons of Ishmael.
And, the sons of Keturah, the concubine of Abraham, she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah,—and, the sons of Jokshan, Sheba, and Dedan;
and, the sons of Midian, Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these, were the sons of Keturah.
So then Abraham begat Isaac,—the sons of Isaac, were Esau and Israel.
the sons of Esau, Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah.
The sons of Eliphaz, Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
The sons of Reuel, Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
And, the sons of Seir, Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,—and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan.
And, the sons of Lotan, Hori, and Homam,—and, Lotan’s sister, was Timna.
The sons of Shobal, Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi and Onam. And, the sons of Zibeon, Aiah and Anah.
The sons of Anah, Dishon,—and, the sons of Dishon, Hamran, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
The sons of Ezer, Bilhan, and Zaavan, Jaakan. The sons of Dishan, Uz and Aran.
Now, these, are the kings, who reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned a king of the sons of Israel,—Bela the son of Beor, and, the name of his city, was Dinhabah.
And Bela died,—and there reigned in his stead, Jobab son of Zerah, of Bozrah.
And Jobab died,—and there reigned in his stead, Husham, of the land of the Temanites.
And Husham died,—and there reigned in his stead, Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, and, the name of his city, was Avith.
And Hadad died,—and there reigned in his stead, Samlah of Masrekah.
And Samlah died,—and there reigned in his stead, Shaul, of Rehoboth by the River.
And Shaul died,—and there reigned in his stead, Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor.
And Baal-hanan died,—and there reigned in his stead, Hadad, and, the name of his city, was Pai,—and, the name of his wife, was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab.
And Hadad died. And there were chiefs of Edom: chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth;
chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon;
chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar;
chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These, were the chiefs of Edom.