Now late on the sabbath day, being dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb.
And behold, a great earthquake occurred, for an agent of the Lord, having descended from heaven, having come, he rolled the stone away from the door and sat upon it.
And his appearance was as lightning and his clothing white as snow.
And those watching over shook from fear of him, and became as dead men.
And having responded, the agent said to the women, Fear ye not, for I know that ye seek Jesus, who was crucified.
He is not here, for he was raised as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.
And after going quickly, tell his disciples, He was raised from the dead, and lo, he goes before you into Galilee. There ye will see him. Behold, I have told you.
And after coming out quickly from the sepulcher with fear and great joy, they ran to notify his disciples.
And as they were going to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus also met them, saying, Hail. And having come, they held his feet and worshiped him.
Then Jesus says to them, Fear not. Go notify my brothers that they should depart into Galilee, and there they will see me.
Now while they were going, behold, some of the security having come into the city, reported to the chief priests all the things that happened.
And after assembling with the elders, and having taken consultation, they gave many silver pieces to the soldiers, saying,
Say ye, His disciples, having come by night, stole him from us while we slept.
And if this should be heard by the governor, we will persuade him, and will make you worry free.
And having taken the silver pieces, they did as they were instructed. And this saying was spread abroad among the Jews until this day.
But the eleven disciples went for Galilee to the mountain where Jesus arranged for them.
And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but men doubted.
And Jesus having come, he spoke to them, saying, All authority in heaven and on earth was given to me.
After going, make ye disciples of all the nations, immersing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all things, as many as I commanded you. And lo, I am with you all the days, until the end of the age. Truly.