And it came to pass after many days, that the word of יהוה came to EliYah in the third year, saying, Go, shew thyself unto Ahab; and I will send rain upon the earth.
And EliYah went to shew himself unto Ahab. And there was a sore famine in Samaria.
And Ahab called Obadiah, which was the governor of his house. (Now Obadiah feared יהוה greatly:
For it was so, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of יהוה, that Obadiah took an hundred prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water.)
And Ahab said unto Obadiah, Go into the land, unto all fountains of water, and unto all brooks: peradventure we may find grass to save the horses and mules alive, that we lose not all the beasts.
So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it: Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.
And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, EliYah met him: and he knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Art thou that my master EliYah?
And he answered him, I am: go, tell thy master, Behold, EliYah is here.
And he said, What have I sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy servant into the hand of Ahab, to slay me?
As יהוה thy Elohim liveth, there is no nation or kingdom, whither my master hath not sent to seek thee: and when they said, He is not there; he took an oath of the kingdom and nation, that they found thee not.
And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy master, Behold, EliYah is here.
And it shall come to pass, as soon as I am gone from thee, that the Spirit of יהוה shall carry thee whither I know not; and so when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find thee, he shall slay me: but I thy servant fear יהוה from my youth.
Was it not told my master what I did when Jezebel slew the prophets of יהוה, how I hid an hundred men of יהוה's prophets by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water?
And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy master, Behold, EliYah is here: and he shall slay me.
And EliYah said, As יהוה of hosts liveth, before whom I stand, I will surely shew myself unto him to day.
So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him: and Ahab went to meet EliYah.
And it came to pass, when Ahab saw EliYah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel?
And he answered, I have not troubled Israel; but thou, and thy father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of יהוה, and thou hast followed Baalim.
Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel unto mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel's table.
So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together unto mount Carmel.
And EliYah came unto all the people, and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? if יהוה be Elohim, follow him: but if the Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word.
Then said EliYah unto the people, I, even I only, remain a prophet of יהוה; but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men.
Let them therefore give us two bullocks; and let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on wood, and put no fire under: and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on wood, and put no fire under:
And call ye on the name of your elohim, and I will call on the name of יהוה: and the Elohim that answereth by fire, let him be Elohim. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken.
And EliYah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose you one bullock for yourselves, and dress it first; for ye are many; and call on the name of your elohim, but put no fire under.
And they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made.
And it came to pass at noon, that EliYah mocked them, and said, Cry aloud: for he is an elohim; either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be awaked.
And they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lancets, till the blood gushed out upon them.
And it came to pass, when midday was past, and they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded.
And EliYah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all the people came near unto him. And he repaired the altar of יהוה that was broken down.
And EliYah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of יהוה came, saying, Israel shall be thy name:
And with the stones he built an altar in the name of יהוה: and he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed.
And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pieces, and laid him on the wood, and said, Fill four barrels with water, and pour it on the burnt sacrifice, and on the wood.
And he said, Do it the second time. And they did it the second time. And he said, Do it the third time. And they did it the third time.
And the water ran round about the altar; and he filled the trench also with water.
And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that EliYah the prophet came near, and said, יהוה Elohim of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art Elohim in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word.
Hear me, O יהוה, hear me, that this people may know that thou art יהוה Elohim, and that thou hast turned their heart back again.
Then the fire of יהוה fell, and consumed the burnt sacrifice, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.
And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces: and they said, יהוה, he is the Elohim; יהוה, he is the Elohim.
And EliYah said unto them, Take the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape. And they took them: and EliYah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and slew them there.
And EliYah said unto Ahab, Get thee up, eat and drink; for there is a sound of abundance of rain.
So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And EliYah went up to the top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth, and put his face between his knees,
And said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. And he went up, and looked, and said, There is nothing. And he said, Go again seven times.
And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, Behold, there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man's hand. And he said, Go up, say unto Ahab, Prepare thy chariot, and get thee down, that the rain stop thee not.
And it came to pass in the mean while, that the heaven was black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode, and went to Jezreel.
And the hand of יהוה was on EliYah; and he girded up his loins, and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.