It was pleasing before Darius, that he should set up over the kingdom, a hundred and twenty satraps,—that they should be over all the kingdom;
and, over these, three confidential ministers, of whom, Daniel, was first,—that, to them, these satraps should render an account, and, the king, not be suffering loss.
Then, this Daniel, signalised himself, above the ministers and the satraps, because, a distinguished spirit, was in him, and, the king, thought to set him up over all the kingdom,
Then, the ministers and the satraps, began seeking to find, occasion, against Daniel, in respect of the kingdom,—but, no occasion nor wickedness, could they find, inasmuch as, faithful, was he, and, neither error nor wickedness, could be found against him.
Then, these men, were saying, We shall not find against this Daniel, any occasion; unless we find it against him in respect of the law of his God.
Then, these ministers and satraps, crowded together unto the king,—and, thus, were saying to him, O Darius the king! for ages, live!
All the ministers of the kingdom, the nobles and satraps, the near friends and the pashas, have consulted together, to establish a royal statute, and to confirm an interdict,—That, whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man, for thirty days, save of thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions.
Now, O king! wilt thou establish the interdict, and sign the writing, that it may not be changed—according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which may not be abolished,
Wherefore, King Darius, signed the writing and the interdict.
But, Daniel, when he knew that the writing, was signed, went to his own house, and, the windows being opened to him, in his chamber, toward Jerusalem, three times a day, was he kneeling upon his knees, and praying and giving thanks before his God, in like manner as he had been doing aforetime.
Then, these men, crowded together, and found Daniel,—praying and making supplication, before his God.
Then drew they near, and began to speak before the king, concerning the royal interdict, Didst thou not sign, an interdict, that, any man who should petition of any God or man, for thirty days, save of thee, O king, should be cast into the den of lions? The king answered and said, Certain is the thing—according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which may not be abolished.
Then answered they and were saying before the king, Daniel, who is of the sons of the exile of Judah, hath made thee, O king, of none account, also the interdict which thou hast signed,—but, three times a day, is asking his petition.
Then, the king, when he heard, the matter, was sorely displeased with himself, and, upon Daniel, set his heart, to deliver him,—and, until the going in of the sun, was striving to rescue him.
Then, these men, crowded unto the king,—and were saying to the king, Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, that, no interdict nor statute which the king establisheth, may be changed.
Then, the king, gave word, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. The king spake and said to Daniel,—Thy God, whom thou art serving continually, he, will deliver thee.
And there was brought a certain stone, and laid upon the mouth of the den; and the king sealed it with his own signet-ring, and with the signet-ring of his nobles, that nothing might be changed, as to Daniel.
Then the king departed to his palace, and spent the night fasting, and no, table, was brought in before him,—and, his sleep, fled from him.
Then the king rose early, with the dawn,—and, hastily—unto the den of lions, departed;
and, when he drew near to the den, unto Daniel, with distressed voice, made he outcry,—the king spake and said unto Daniel, O Daniel! servant of the Living God! Thy God, whom thou art serving continually, hath he been able to deliver thee from the lions?
Then, Daniel, with the king, spake,—O king! for ages, live!
My God, hath sent his messenger, and hath shut the mouth of the lions, and they have not hurt me; forasmuch as, before him, rectitude was found in me, moreover also, before thee, O king, no, crime, had I committed.
Then, the king, was exceedingly glad concerning him, and gave word to take up, Daniel, out of the den. So Daniel, was taken up, out of the den, and, no manner of hurt, was found in him, for that he had trusted in his God.
And the king, gave word, that they should bring those men who had accused Daniel, and, into the den of lions, they cast them—them, their children, and their wives,—and, they had not reached the bottom of the den, when the lions, seized them, and, all their bones, brake they in pieces.
Then, Darius the king, wrote to all the peoples, the races, and the tongues who were dwelling in all the earth, Your prosperity abound!
From before me, is appointed a decree that, throughout every dominion of my kingdom, men tremble and withdraw falteringly from before the God of Daniel,—for that, he, is the Living God, and abiding for ages, and, his kingdom, that which shall not be destroyed, and, his dominion, is unto the end:
who delivereth and rescueth and worketh signs and wonders, in the heavens, and in the earth,—for that he hath delivered Daniel out of the power of the lions.
And, this Daniel, prospered in the reign of Darius,—and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian. :