Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler, And he that reeleth with it is not wise.
The terror of a king is like the roaring of a lion; He who provoketh him sinneth against himself.
It is an honor to a man to cease from strife; Bur every fool rusheth into it.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; Therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
A design in the heart of a man is like deep waters; But a man of understanding draweth it out.
Many will proclaim their own kindness; But a faithful man who can find?
He who walketh in his integrity is a righteous man; Happy will be his children after him!
The king, sitting upon the throne of judgment, Scattereth with his eyes all the wicked like chaff.
Who can say, "I have kept my heart clean; I am free from my sin?"
Divers weights and divers measures,—Both of them are an abomination to the LORD.
Even in childhood one maketh himself known by his doings, Whether his actions will be pure and right.
The ear that heareth, and the eye that seeth,—The LORD made them both.
Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; Open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread.
"Bad! bad!" saith the buyer; But when he hath gone his way, then he boasteth.
There is gold and abundance of pearls; But the lips of knowledge are a precious vase.
Take his garment who is surety for another; Yea, take a pledge of him who is bound for a stranger.
The bread of falsehood is sweet to a man; But afterwards his mouth is filled with gravel.
Purposes are established by counsel; Therefore with good advice make war.
He who goeth about as a tale-bearer revealeth secrets; Therefore associate not with him who keepeth open his lips.
Whoso curseth his father or his mother, His lamp shall be put out in midnight darkness.
A possession may be gotten hastily in the beginning, But in the end it will not be blessed.
Say not thou, "I will repay evil;" Wait on the LORD, and he will help thee.
Divers weights are an abomination to the LORD, And a false balance is not good.
A man’s steps are from the LORD; How, then, can a man understand his way?
It is a snare to a man to utter a vow rashly, And after vows to consider.
A wise king scattereth the wicked like chaff, And bringeth over them the wheel.
The spirit of a man is the lamp of the LORD, Which searcheth all the inner chambers of his body.
Mercy and truth preserve the king; Yea, his throne is upholden by mercy.
The glory of young men is their strength, And the beauty of old men is the gray head.
Wounding stripes are the remedy for a bad man; Yea, stripes which reach to the inner chambers of the body.