At that time Jehovah said to me, Hew thee two tablets of stone like the first, and come up to me onto the mount, and make thee an ark of wood.
And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets which thou broke, and thou shall put them in the ark.
So I made an ark of acacia wood, and hewed two tablets of stone like the first, and went up onto the mount, having the two tablets in my hand.
And he wrote on the tablets according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which Jehovah spoke to you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly, and Jehovah gave them to me.
And I turned and came down from the mount, and put the tablets in the ark which I had made. And they are there as Jehovah commanded me.
(And the sons of Israel journeyed from Beeroth Bene-jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried, and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his stead.
From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water.
At that time Jehovah set apart the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah to minister to him, and to bless in his name, to this day.
Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers. Jehovah is his inheritance, according as Jehovah thy God spoke to him.)
And I stayed on the mount as at the first time, forty days and forty nights, and Jehovah hearkened to me that time also: Jehovah would not destroy thee.
And Jehovah said to me, Arise, take thy journey before the people, and they shall go in and possess the land, which I swore to their fathers to give to them.
And now, Israel, what does Jehovah thy God require of thee, but to fear Jehovah thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve Jehovah thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul,
to keep the commandments of Jehovah, and his statutes, which I command thee this day for thy good?
Behold, to Jehovah thy God belongs heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that is in it.
Only Jehovah had a delight in thy fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all peoples as at this day.
Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked.
For Jehovah your God, he is God of gods, and Lord of lords, the great God, the mighty, and the awesome, who regards not persons, nor takes reward.
He executes justice for the fatherless and widow, and loves the sojourner in giving him food and raiment.
Love ye therefore the sojourner, for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
Thou shall fear Jehovah thy God. Him thou shall serve, and to him thou shall cling, and by his name thou shall swear.
He is thy praise, and he is thy God, who has done for thee these great and awesome things, which thine eyes have seen.
Thy fathers went down into Egypt, in souls, seventy. And now Jehovah thy God has made thee as the stars of heaven for multitude.