And, entering into a boat, he crossed over, and came into his own city.
And lo! they were bringing unto him a paralytic, on a couch, laid prostrate; and Jesus, seeing, their faith, said to the paralytic,—Take courage! child, forgiven are thy sins.
And lo! certain of the scribes, said within themselves,—This man, speaketh profanely!
And Jesus, knowing, their inward thoughts, said,—To what end are ye cherishing evil thoughts within your hearts?
For which is easier—To say, Forgiven are thy sins,—or to say, Rise and be walking!
But, that ye may know, that the Son of Man hath, authority, upon the earth, to be forgiving sins, then, saith he to the paralytic,—Rise! take up thy couch, and withdraw unto thy house.
And, rising, he departed unto his house.
Now the multitudes, seeing, were struck with fear, and glorified the God who had given authority, such as this, unto men.
And Jesus, passing aside from thence, saw a man presiding over the tax-office, called, Matthew, and saith unto him,—Be following me. And, arising, he followed him.
And it came to pass, as he was reclining in the house, that lo! many tax-collectors and sinners, came, and were reclining together with Jesus and his disciples.
And, the Pharisees, observing it, began to say unto his disciples,—Wherefore, with tax-collectors and sinners, doth your Teacher eat?
And, he, hearing it, said,—No need have the strong, of a physician, but they who are sick.
But go ye, and learn what this meaneth,—Mercy, I desire, and not, sacrifice; For I came, not to call the righteous, but sinners.
Then come near unto him the disciples of John, saying,—Wherefore do, we, and the Pharisees, fast, whereas, thy disciples, fast not?
And Jesus said unto them,—Can, the sons of the bridechamber, mourn, so long as, the bridegroom, is, with them? But days will come, when the bridegroom, shall be taken from them, and, then, will they fast.
Howbeit, no one, layeth on a patch of unshrunk cloth, upon an old garment,—for the shrinking of it teareth away from the garment, and, a worse rent, is made.
Neither pour they new wine into old skins: otherwise at least, the skins are burst, and, the wine, runneth out, and, the skins, are spoiled,—but they pour new wine into unused skins, and, both, are together preserved.
While, these things, he was speaking unto them, lo! a [certain] ruler, came, and began bowing down to him, saying,—My daughter, just now died! But come, and lay thy hand upon, her, and she shall live.
And Jesus, arising, was following him, also his disciples.
And lo! a woman, having a flow of blood twelve years, coming near behind, touched the fringe of his mantle.
For she kept saying within herself,—If only I touch his mantle, I shall be made well!
And, Jesus, turning and seeing her, said,—Take courage! daughter, Thy faith, hath made thee well. And the woman was made well, from that hour.
And, Jesus, coming, into the house of the ruler, and seeing the flute-players and the multitude in confusion, was saying:
Give place! for the maiden died not, but is sleeping. And they began to deride him.
But, when the multitude had been put forth, he went in, and grasped her hand,—and the maiden arose.
And forth went this report, into the whole of that land.
And, as Jesus, was passing aside from thence, there followed him, two blind men, crying aloud and saying,—Have mercy on us, O Son of David!
And, when he entered the house, the blind men came unto him,—and Jesus saith unto them, Believe ye, that I can, do this? They say unto him, Yea, Lord!
Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith, be it done unto you.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus, sternly charged them, saying, Mind! let no one know!
They, however, going forth, made him known throughout the whole of that land.
And, as, they, were going forth, lo! there was brought to him, a dumb man, demonized.
And, the demon being cast out, the dumb man spoke; and the multitudes marvelled, saying,—Never, was it seen thus, in Israel.
[But, the Pharisees, beg to say, In the ruler of the demons, is he casting out the demons.]
And Jesus was going round all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the glad-message of the kingdom,—and curing every disease, and every infirmity.
But, seeing the multitudes, he was moved with compassion concerning them, because they were torn and thrown down, like sheep hating no shepherd.
Then, saith he unto his disciples, The harvest, indeed, is great, but, the labourers, few;
Beg ye, therefore, of the Lord of the harvest,—That he would thrust forth labourers, into his harvest.