Then all the publicans and sinners drew near unto him to hear him.
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them.
And he spoke this parable unto them, saying,
What man of you having a hundred sheep if he lose one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost until he finds it?
And when he has found [it], he lays [it] on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And when he comes home, he calls together [his] friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost.
I say unto you that likewise there shall be more joy in heaven over one sinner that repents than over ninety-nine just persons, who need no repentance.
Or what woman having ten drachmas, if she loses one drachma, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds [it]?
And when she has found [it], she calls [her] friends and [her] neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost.
Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repents.
And he said, A certain man had two sons;
and the younger of them said to [his] father, Father, give me the portion of the estate that falls [to me]. And he divided unto them [his] living.
And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country and there wasted his estate with riotous living.
And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.
And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
And he longed to fill his belly with the husks that the swine ate, but no one gave [them] unto him.
And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have abundance of bread, and I perish [here] with hunger!
I will arise and go to my father and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee
and am no longer worthy to be called thy son; make me as one of thy hired servants.
And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and was moved with compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him.
And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight and am no longer worthy to be called thy son.
But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put [it] on him and put a ring on his hand and shoes on [his] feet
and bring here the fatted calf and kill [it], and let us eat and be merry;
for this my son was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found. And they began to be merry.
Now his elder son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant.
And he said unto him, Thy brother is come, and thy father has killed the fatted calf because he has received him safe and sound.
And he was angry and would not go in, therefore his father came out and intreated him.
And he, answering, said to [his] father, Behold, these many years I have served thee, neither at any time have I transgressed thy commandment; and yet thou never gavest me a kid that I might make merry with my friends.
But as soon as this thy son was come who has devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed the fatted calf for him.
And he said unto him, Son, thou art always with me, and all that I have is thine.
It was necessary that we should make merry and be glad, for this thy brother was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found.: