I commend to you Phoebe, our sister, who is a servant of the congregation that is at Cenchreae,
that you receive her in the Lord, in a way worthy of the saints, and that you assist her in whatever matter she may need from you, for she herself also has been a helper of many, and of my own self.
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Messiah Yeshua,
who for my life, laid down their own necks; to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.
Greet the congregation that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first fruits of Asia to Messiah.
Greet Miriam, who labored much for you.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives and my fellow prisoners, who are notable among the apostles, who also were in Messiah before me.
Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Messiah, and Stachys, my beloved.
Greet Apelles, the approved in Messiah. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus.
Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet them of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.
Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, the beloved, who labored much in the Lord.
Greet Rufus, the chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them.
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Messiah greet you.
Now I beg you, brothers, look out for those who are causing the divisions and occasions of stumbling, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and turn away from them.
For those who are such do not serve our Lord, Yeshua the Messiah, but their own belly; and by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the innocent.
For your obedience has become known to all. I rejoice therefore over you. But I desire to have you wise in that which is good, but innocent in that which is evil.
And the God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Yeshua the Messiah be with you.
Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives.
I, Tertius, who write the letter, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, my host and host of the whole congregation, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, as does Quartus, the brother.
The grace of our Lord Yeshua the Messiah be with you all! Amen.
Now to him who is able to establish you according to my Good News and the proclaiming of Yeshua the Messiah, according to the revelation of the mystery which has been kept secret through long ages,
but now is revealed, and by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, is made known for obedience of faith to all the nations;
to the only wise God, through Yeshua the Messiah, to whom be the glory forever! Amen.