Then spake Yahweh, unto Moses and unto Aaron, in the land of Egypt saying—
This month, is, to you, a beginning of months,—the first, it is, to you, of the months of the year.
Speak ye unto all the assembly of Israel, saying, On the tenth of this month, then let them take to them, each man a lamb for his ancestral household, a lamb for a household.
But if the household be too small for a lamb, then shall he and his neighbour that is near unto his house take one, according to the number of souls,—each man according to his eating, shall ye number for the lamb.
A lamb without defect a male a year old, shall yours be,—from the sheep or from the goats, shall ye take it.
So shall it be yours, to keep, until the fourteenth day of this month,—then shall all the convocation of the assembly of Israel slay it between the two evenings.
And they shall take of the blood, and put upon the two door-posts and upon the upper-beam,—upon the houses wherein they are to eat it.
Then shall they eat the flesh, in the same night,—roast with fire, and with unleavened cakes, with bitter herbs, shall they eat it.
Do not eat of it underdone, nor cooked by boiling in water,—but roast with fire, its head with its legs, and with its inward parts.
And ye shall let nothing thereof remain until morning,—but that which is left remaining until morning, in the fire shall ye consume.
And, thus, shall ye eat it,—your loins, girded, your sandals, on your feet, and, your staff, in your hand,—so shall ye eat it in haste, it is Yahweh’s, passing over.
I will pass along, therefore, throughout the land of Egypt this night, and will smite every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from man even to beast,—and against all the gods of Egypt, will I execute judgments—I, Yahweh.
Then shall the blood serve you for a sign, on the houses wherein ye are, then will I behold the blood, and will pass over you,—and there shall be among you no plague to destroy, when I smite the land of Egypt.
So shall this day serve you for a memorial, and ye shall celebrate it, as a festival to Yahweh,—to your generations—as an age-abiding statute, shall ye celebrate it.
Seven days, unleavened cakes, shall ye eat, surely, on the first day, shall ye put away leaven, out of your houses,—for whosoever eateth what is leavened, then shall that soul be cut off out of Israel, from the first day, unto the seventh day.
Both on the first day, a holy convocation, and on the seventh day—a holy convocation, shall there be to you,—no work, shall be done therein, save only what must be eaten by every soul, that alone, shall be done by you.
So then ye shall observe the unleavened cakes, because on this self-same day, brought I forth your hosts out of the land of Egypt,—so then ye shall observe this day to your generations, as a statute age-abiding,
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, shall ye eat unleavened cakes,—until the one-and-twentieth day of the month in the evening,
For seven days, leaven, shall not be found in your houses,—for, whosoever eateth what is leavened, then shall that soul be cut off out of the assembly of Israel, whether sojourner or native of the land.
Nothing leavened, shall ye eat,—in all your dwellings, shall ye eat unleavened cakes.
So then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto them,—Proceed and take for yourselves one of the flock according to your families, and slay the passover.
Then shall ye take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood which is in the basin, and strike the upper beam and the two door-posts, with the blood which is in the basin,—and, ye, shall not go forth any man out of the entrance of his house, until morning,
And Yahweh will pass along to plague the Egyptians, and when he beholdeth the blood upon the upper beam and upon the two door-posts, then will Yahweh pass over the entrance, and not suffer the destroyer to enter into your houses to inflict on you the plague.
And ye shall observe this thing,—for a statute to thee and to thy sons unto times age-abiding.
And so it shall come to pass when ye shall enter into the land which Yahweh will give you as he hath spoken,—and ye shall observe this service;
and it shall come to pass that your sons shall say unto you,—What is this your service?
Then shall ye say—A passover sacrifice, it is to Yahweh, who passed-over the houses of the sons of Israel, in Egypt, when he plagued the Egyptians but our houses, he delivered. Then did the people bend their heads and bow themselves down.
And the sons of Israel went their way and did,—as Yahweh had commanded Moses and Aaron, so, did they.
And it came to pass, at midnight, that Yahweh, smote every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat upon his throne, unto the firstborn of the captive who was in the pit of his prison,—and every firstborn of beasts.
Then rose up Pharaoh by night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians, and there arose a great outcry throughout Egypt,—for there was not a house, where there was not one dead.
So he called for Moses and for Aaron by night and said—Rise ye, go forth out of the midst of my people, both ye and the sons of Israel,—and go serve Yahweh according to your word;
also, your flocks and your herds, take ye, as ye spake and go your way,—so shall ye bless, even me.
And the Egyptians became urgent with the people, to send them in haste out of the land,—for they said—We all, are dying.
So the people took up their dough, ere yet it was leavened,—with their kneading-bowls, bound up in their mantles on their shoulders,
And the sons of Israel, did according to the word of Moses,—and asked of the Egyptians, articles of silver and articles of gold and mantles.
And Yahweh, gave the people favour in the eyes of the Egyptians and they gave them gladly,—so they spoiled the Egyptians.
Then did the sons of Israel break up from Rameses, towards Succoth,—about six hundred thousand foot of men grown, besides little ones.
Moreover also, a mixed multitude, came up with them,—flocks also, and herds, exceeding much cattle,
Then baked they the dough which they had brought out of Egypt—into round unleavened cakes for it had not been leavened,—for they had been driven out of Egypt and could not tarry, and indeed no provisions, had they made ready for themselves.
Now, the time during which the sons of Israel dwelt in Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years.
And it came to pass at the end of four hundred and thirty years, yea it came to pass, on this self-same day, that all the hosts of Yahweh had come forth out of the land of Egypt.
A night of solemn observances, it is unto Yahweh, for bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt,—this same night, pertaineth to Yahweh, for solemn observances by all the sons of Israel to their generations.
And Yahweh said unto Moses and Aaron: This, is the statute of the passover,—No stranger, shall eat thereof;
but, every man’s servant bought with silver,—when thou hast circumcised him, then, shall he eat thereof:
An alien or a hireling, shall not eat thereof.
In one house, shall it be eaten, thou shalt not take forth out of the house any of the flesh outside; and a, bone thereof, shalt thou not break.
All the assembly of Israel, shall keep it.
And when there may sojourn with thee a sojourner who may wish to keep a passover to Yahweh, there must be circumcised to him every male and then, may he draw near to keep it, so shall he be as a native of the land,—but no uncircumcised male, shall eat thereof.
One law, shall there be for the native, and for the sojourner that sojourneth in your midst.
Thus did all the sons of Israel,—as Yahweh had commanded Moses and Aaron, so, did they.
And it came to pass, on this self-same day, that Yahweh brought forth the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt, by their hosts.