A wise sonne will obey the instruction of his father: but a scorner will heare no rebuke.
A man shall eate good things by the fruite of his mouth: but the soule of the trespassers shall suffer violence.
Hee that keepeth his mouth, keepeth his life: but he that openeth his lips, destruction shall be to him.
The sluggard lusteth, but his soule hath nought: but the soule of the diligent shall haue plentie.
A righteous man hateth lying wordes: but the wicked causeth slander and shame.
Righteousnesse preserueth the vpright of life: but wickednes ouerthroweth the sinner.
There is that maketh himselfe riche, and hath nothing, and that maketh himselfe poore, hauing great riches.
A man will giue his riches for the ransome of his life: but the poore cannot heare ye reproch.
The light of the righteous reioyceth: but the candle of the wicked shall be put out.
Onely by pride doeth man make contention: but with the well aduised is wisdome.
The riches of vanitie shall diminish: but he that gathereth with the hand, shall increase them.
The hope that is deferred, is the fainting of the heart: but when the desire commeth, it is as a tree of life.
He that despiseth the worde, hee shall be destroyed: but hee that feareth the commandement he shalbe rewarded.
The instruction of a wise man is as the welspring of life, to turne away from the snares of death.
Good vnderstanding maketh acceptable: but the way of the disobedient is hated.
Euery wise man will worke by knowledge: but a foole will spread abroade folly.
A wicked messenger falleth into euill: but a faithfull ambassadour is preseruation.
Pouertie and shame is to him that refuseth instruction: but hee that regardeth correction, shalbe honoured.
A desire accomplished deliteth ye soule: but it is an abomination to fooles to depart from euil.
He that walketh with the wise, shalbe wise: but a companion of fooles shalbe afflicted.
Affliction followeth sinners: but vnto the righteous God will recompense good.
The good man shall giue inheritance vnto his childrens children: and the riches of the sinner is layde vp for the iust.
Much foode is in the fielde of the poore: but the fielde is destroyed without discretion.
He that spareth his rodde, hateth his sonne: but he that loueth him, chasteneth him betime.
The righteous eateth to the contentation of his minde: but the belly of the wicked shall want.