And, answering, Jesus, again, spake in parables unto them, saying:—
The kingdom of the heavens hath become like a man, a king,—who made a marriage-feast for his son;
And sent his servants, to call the invited into the marriage-feast,—and they would not come.
Again, sent he other servants, saying—Say to the invited, Lo! my dinner, have I prepared, mine oxen and my fatlings, are slain,—and, all things, are, ready: Come ye into the marriage-feast.
And, they, slighting it, went off, one, indeed, into his own field, and, another, unto his merchandise,—
And, the rest, securing his servants, ill-treated and slew them.
And, the king, was provoked to anger,—and, sending his armies, destroyed those murderers, and, their city, set on fire.
Then, saith he unto his servants—The marriage, indeed, is ready,—but, the invited, were not, worthy;
Be going, therefore, into the crossways of the roads, and, as many as ye shall find, call ye into the marriage-feast.
And those servants, going forth, into the roads, gathered together all whom they found, both bad and good,—and filled was the bride-chamber with guests.
But the king, entering to view the guests, saw there a man, who had not put on a wedding-garment,—
And saith unto him—Friend! how camest thou in here, not having a wedding-garment? And, he, was put to silence.
Then, the king said unto the ministers, Binding him feet and hands, cast him forth into the darkness, outside: There, shall be wafting and gnashing of teeth.
For, many, are called, but, few, chosen.
Then, went the Pharisees and took, counsel, that they might ensnare him, in discourse.
And they sent forth to him their disciples, with the Herodians, saying, Teacher! we know that, true, thou art, and, the way of God, in truth, dost teach, and it concerneth thee not about anyone,—for thou lookest not unto the face of men:
Tell us then, how, to thee, it seemeth? Is it allowable to give tax unto Caesar, or not?
But Jesus, taking note of their wickedness, said—Why are ye tempting me, hypocrites?
Shew me the coin appointed for the tax. And, they, brought unto him a denary.
And he saith unto them—Whose, is this image and the inscription?
They say—Caesar’s. Then, saith he unto them—Render, therefore, the things of Caesar, unto Caesar,—and, the things of God, unto God.
And, hearing, they marvelled,—and, leaving him, departed.
On that day, there came unto him Sadducees, who say, there is, no resurrection—and they questioned him,
saying—Teacher! Moses, said, If any man die not having children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
Now there were, with us, seven brethren; and, the first, marrying, died, and not having seed, left his wife unto his brother.
Likewise, the second also, and the third,—unto the seven.
And, last of all, died, the wife.
In the resurrection, therefore,—Of which of the seven, shall she be wife? For, all, had her.
And Jesus answering, said—Ye are deceiving yourselves, knowing neither the Scriptures, nor yet the power of God.
For, in the resurrection, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but, as messengers in the heaven, are they.
But, as touching the resurrection of the dead—Have ye not read what was spoken unto you by God, saying—
I, am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?—He is not God, of the dead, but, of the living.
And, the multitudes, hearing, were being struck with astonishment at his teaching.
Now, the Pharisees, hearing that he had silenced the Sadducees, were brought together with one accord;
and one from among them, a lawyer, proposed a question, putting him to the test:
Teacher! which commandment, is greatest in the law?
And, he, said unto him—Thou shalt love the Lord thy God—with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind:
This, is the great and first commandment.
The second, like it, is, this: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
In these two commandments, all the law, is contained, and the prophets.
Now, the Pharisees having come together, Jesus questioned them, saying—
How, to you, doth it seem, concerning the Christ? Whose son, is he? They say unto him—David’s.
He saith unto them—How then doth, David, in spirit, call him, Lord, saying—
The Lord, hath said unto, my Lord,—Sit thou on my right hand, until I make thy foes thy footstool?
If then, David, calleth him, Lord, How, is he, his son?
And, no one, was able to answer him a word, neither durst anyone, from that day, question him, any more.