Do not rebuke an elder man, but entreat him as a father, younger men as brothers,
elder women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.
Support widows, the real widows.
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to be devoted to their own house, and to give back recompense to their parents, for this is acceptable in the sight of God.
But the real widow, and made alone, has hoped in God, and continues in entreaties and prayers night and day.
But she who is self-indulgent is dead while she lives.
And command these things, so that they may be blameless.
But if any man does not provide for his own, and especially those belonging his household, he has denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.
Let no widow be enrolled under sixty years old, having become the wife of one man,
being testified in good works: if she has reared children, if she has been hospitable to strangers, if she has washed the feet of the sanctified, if she has relieved those who are afflicted, if she has followed every good work.
But refuse younger widows, for when they are sexually aroused, they desire of the Christ to marry,
which has condemnation because they have disregarded the original pledge.
And also at the same time they learn to be idle, roving the houses, and not only idle, but also babbling and meddlesome, speaking things that they ought not.
I desire therefore the younger women to marry, to bear children, to manage house, to give not one occasion to him who opposes on account of slander.
For some have already turned aside after Satan.
If any believing man or believing woman has widows, let them relieve them, and let not the congregation be burdened, so that it may relieve the real widows.
Let the elders who rule well be regarded worthy of double compensation, especially those who labor in the word and in teaching.
For the scripture says thou shall not muzzle an ox that is threshing. And the workman is worthy of his wage.
Accept no accusation against an elder, except at two or three witnesses.
Those who sin, rebuke in the sight of all, so that the others may also have fear.
I solemnly testify before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the chosen agents, that thou keep these things without prejudice, doing nothing from partiality.
Lay hands hastily on no man, nor contribute to other sins. Keep thyself pure.
No longer drink water, but use a little wine because of thy stomach and thy frequent weaknesses.
The sins of some men are evident, leading to judgment, but also for some they follow after.
Likewise also good works are evident, and those faring otherwise cannot be hid.