A certayne man was sicke named Lazarus of Bethania the toune of Mary and her sister Martha.
It was that Mary which annoynted Iesus with oyntment and wyped his fete with her heere whose brother Lazarus was sicke
and his sisters sent vnto him sayinge. Lorde behold he whom thou lovest is sicke.
When Iesus hearde yt he sayd: this infirmite is not vnto deth but for ye laude of God that the sonne of God myght be praysed by the reason of it.
Iesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
After he hearde that he was sicke then aboode he two dayes still in the same place where he was.
Then after that sayd he to his disciples: let us goo into Iewry agayne.
His disciples sayde vnto him. Master the Iewes lately sought meanes to stone the and wilt thou goo thyther agayne?
Iesus answered: are ther not twelve houres in ye daye? Yf a man walke in ye daye he stombleth not because he seith the lyght of this worlde.
But yf a ma walke in ye nyght he stombleth because ther is no lyght in him.
This sayde he and after yt he sayde vnto the: oure frende Lazarus slepeth but I goo to wake him out of slepe.
Then sayde his disciples: Lorde yf he slepe he shall do well ynough.
How be it Iesus spake of his deeth: but they thought yt he had spoke of ye naturall slepe.
Then sayde Iesus vnto the playnly Lazarus is deed
and I am glad for youre sakes yt I was not there because ye maye beleve. Neverthelesse let vs go vnto him.
Then sayde Thomas which is called Dydimus vnto ye disciples: let vs also goo that we maye dye wt him
Then went Iesus and founde that he had lyne in his grave foure dayes already.
Bethanie was nye vnto Ierusalem aboute. xv. furlonges of
and many of the Iewes were come to Martha and Mary to comforte them over their brother.
Martha assone as she hearde yt Iesus was comynge went and met him: but Mary sate still in the housse.
Then sayde Martha vnto Iesus: Lorde yf thou haddest bene here my brother had not bene deed:
but neverthelesse I knowe that whatsoever thou axest of God God will geve it the.
Iesus sayde vnto her: Thy brother shall ryse agayne.
Martha sayde vnto him: I knowe that he shall ryse agayne in the resurreccion at the last daye.
Iesus sayde vnto her: I am the resurreccion and the lyfe: He that beleveth on me ye though he were deed yet shall he lyve.
And whosoever lyveth and belevest on me shall never dye. Beleveth thou this?
She sayde vnto him: ye Lorde I beleve that thou arte Christ the sonne of god which shuld come into the worlde.
And assone as she had so sayde she went her waye and called Marie her sister secretly sayinge: The master is come and calleth for the
And she assone as she hearde that arose quickly and came vnto him.
Iesus was not yet come into the toune: but was in the place where Martha met him.
The Iewes then which were with her in the housse and comforted her when they sawe Mary that she rose vp hastely and went out folowed her saying: She goeth vnto the grave to wepe there.
Then when Mary was come where Iesus was and sawe him she fell doune at his fete sayinge vnto him: Lorde yf thou haddest bene here my brother had not bene deed.
When Iesus sawe her wepe and ye Iewes also wepe which came wt her he groned in ye sprete and was troubled in him selfe
and sayde: Where have ye layed him? They sayde vnto him: Lorde come and se.
And Iesus wept.
Then sayde the Iewes: Beholde howe he loved him.
And some of the sayde: coulde not he which openned the eyes of the blynde have made also that this man shuld not have dyed?
Iesus agayne groned in him selfe and came to the grave. It was a caue and a stone layde on it.
And Iesus sayd: take ye awaye the stone. Martha the sister of him that was deed sayd vnto him: Lorde by this tyme he stinketh. For he hath bene deed foure dayes:
Iesus sayde vnto her: Sayde I not vnto the yt if thou didest beleve thou shuldest se ye glory of God.
Then they toke awaye ye stone from ye place where the deed was layde. And Iesus lyfte vp his eyes and sayde: Father I thanke the because that thou hast hearde me.
I wot that thou hearest me all wayes: but because of the people that stonde by I sayde it yt they maye beleve that thou hast sent me.
And when he thus had spoken he cryed wt a loud voyce. Lazarus come forthe.
And he that was deed came forth bounde hand and fote with grave bondes and his face was bounde with a napkin. Iesus sayde vnto the: loowse him and let him goo.
Then many of the Iewes which came to Mary and had sene the thinges which Iesus dyd beleved on him.
But some of them went their wayes to the Pharises and tolde them what Iesus had done.
Then gadered the hye prestes and the Pharises a counsell and sayde: what do we? This ma doeth many miracles.
Yf we let him scape thus all men will beleve on him and ye Romaynes shall come and take awaye oure countre and the people.
And one of them named Cayphas which was the hieprest yt same yeare sayde vnto them: Ye perceave nothinge at all
nor yet consider that it is expedient for vs that one man dye for the people and not that all the people perisshe.
This spake he not of him selfe but beinge hye preste that same yeare he prophesied that Iesus shulde dye for the people
and not for the people only but that he shuld gader to geder in one the chyldren of God which were scattered abroode.
From that daye forth they held a counsell to geder for to put him to deeth.
Iesus therfore walked no more opely amoge the Iewes: but wet his waye thence vnto a coutre nye to a wildernes into a cite called Ephraim and there hauted with his disciples.
And the Iewes ester was nye at hand and many went out of the countre vp to Ierusalem before the ester to purify them selves.
Then sought they for Iesus and spake bitwene the selves as they stode in the teple: What thinke ye seynge he cometh not to the feast.
The hye prestes and Pharises had geven a comaundemet that yf eny man knew where he were he shuld shewe it that they myght take him.