And David again gathered every chosen one in Israel, thirty thousand.
And David rose up and went, and all the people with him, from Baal-judah, to bring up the ark of God from there which is called by the Name, the Name of Jehovah of hosts, who dwells above the cherubs.
And they caused the ark of God to ride on a new cart, and took it from the house of Abinadab, which is in the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio the sons of Abinadab were leading the new cart.
And they took it from the house of Abinadab, which is in the hill, with the ark of God. And Ahio was going before the ark.
And David and all the house of Israel were dancing before Jehovah with all instruments of fir wood, with lyres and with harps, and with tambourines, and with sistra, and with cymbals.
And when they came to the threshing floor of Nachon, and Uzzah reached out to the ark of God, and took hold of it, for the oxen nearly upset it ,
then the anger of Jehovah glowed against Uzzah. And God struck him there for the fault. And he died there by the ark of God.
And it angered David because Jehovah broke out a break against Uzzah. And one calls that place The Break of Uzzah to this day.
And David feared Jehovah on that day, and said, How shall the ark of Jehovah come to me?
And David was not willing to bring the ark of Jehovah to himself, to the city of David. And David turned it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
And the ark of Jehovah remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months. And Jehovah blessed Obed-edom and all his house.
And it was told to king David, saying, Jehovah has blessed the house of Obed-edom and all is his, because of the ark of God. And David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom to the city of David with joy.
And it happened, when those bearing the ark of Jehovah had gone six steps, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling.
And David was dancing with all his might before Jehovah. And David was girded with a linen ephod.
And David and all the house of Israel were bringing up the ark of Jehovah with shouting, and with the sound of a ram's horn.
And it happened, when the ark of Jehovah had come to the city of David, and Michal the daughter of Saul looked through the window and saw king David leaping and dancing before Jehovah, she despised him in her heart.
And they brought the ark of Jehovah in, and set it up in its place, in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it. And David caused burnt offerings to be offered before Jehovah, and peace offerings.
And David finished offering the burnt offerings, and the peace offerings, and blessed the people in the name of Jehovah of hosts.
And he shared out to all the people, to all the multitude of Israel, from man even to woman, to each one cake of bread and one date cake and one raisin cake. And all the people left, each one to his house.
And David returned to bless his house. And Michal the daughter of Saul went out to meet David, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, who was uncovered today before the eyes of the slave-girls of his servants, as one of the vain ones shamelessly uncovers himself.
And David said to Michal, Before Jehovah, who chose me over your father and over all your father's house, to command me to be leader over the people of Jehovah, and over Israel, so I danced before Jehovah.
And I will be yet lighter than this, and shall be lowly in my own eyes. But with the slave-girls of whom you spoke, with them I will be honored.
And there was no child to Michal the daughter of Saul until the day of her death.