And immediately in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council. And they bound Jesus and led Him away and delivered Him to Pilate.
And Pilate asked Him, Are you the king of the Jews? And answering He said to him, You say it.
And the chief priests accused Him of many things, but He answered nothing.
And Pilate asked Him again, saying, Do you answer nothing? Behold how many things they witness against you?
But Jesus still answered nothing, so that Pilate marveled.
And at that feast he released to them one prisoner, whomever they desired.
And there was one named Barabbas, bound with the insurgents, who had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the crowd, crying aloud, began to beg him to do as he had always done to them.
But Pilate answered them, saying, Do you desire that I release to you the King of the Jews?
For he knew that the chief priests had delivered Him because of envy.
But the chief priests moved the people that he should rather release Barabbas to them.
And Pilate answered and said again to them, What then do you desire that I should do to him whom you call the King of the Jews?
And they cried out again, Crucify him!
Then Pilate said to them, Why? What evil has he done? And they much more cried out, Crucify him!
And deciding to do the easiest to the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas to them, and having scourged Him, delivered up Jesus to be crucified.
And the soldiers led Him away inside the court, which is the praetorium. And they called together all the cohort.
And they clothed Him with purple and plaited a crown of thorns and put it around His head.
And they began to salute Him, Hail, King of the Jews!
And they struck Him on the head with a reed, and spat on Him, and placing the knees, they bowed to Him.
And when they had mocked Him, they took the purple off Him and put His own clothes on Him and led Him out to crucify Him.
And they made one who was passing by, Simon a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear His cross.
And they brought Him to Golgotha Place (which translated is, Place of a Skull).
And they gave Him wine mixed with myrrh to drink. But He did not take it.
And when they had crucified Him, they divided His garments, casting lots on them, as, to what each should take.
And it was the third hour, and they crucified Him.
And the inscription of His accusation was written over Him, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And with Him they crucified two thieves, the one off the right, and one off the left.
And the Scripture was fulfilled which said, "And he was numbered with the lawless."
And those who passed by blasphemed Him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha! You razing the temple and building it in three days,
save yourself and come down from the cross!
And also the chief priests mocking, with the scribes, said to one another, He saved others but he cannot save himself.
Let Christ the King of Israel now come down from the cross, so that we may see and believe. And they who were crucified with Him insulted Him.
And it being the sixth hour, darkness came over all the land until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? (which being translated is, My God, My God, why did You forsake Me?)
And hearing, some of those standing by said, Behold, he calls Elijah.
And one ran and filled a sponge full of vinegar and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink. But they said, Let alone, let us see if Elijah comes to take him down.
And letting out a loud voice, Jesus expired.
And the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom.
And when the centurion, who stood across from him, saw that He cried out so, and expired, he said, Truly this man was Son of God.
And also women were watching from a distance, among whom also was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less, and of Joses, and Salome,
(who also, when He was in Galilee, followed Him and ministered to Him), and many other women who came up with Him to Jerusalem.
And it, becoming evening already, since it was the Preparation, that is, the day before sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathea, an honorable counsellor, who also waited for the kingdom of God, came and went in boldly to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
And Pilate wondered if He were already dead. And calling the centurion, he asked him whether He had died already.
And when he knew it from the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
And he bought a linen cloth, and took Him down, and wrapped Him in the linen, and laid Him in a tomb which was cut out of a rock, and rolled a stone to the door of the tomb.
And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where He was laid.