And after this it happened that the sons of Moab and the sons of Ammon came in, and with them from the Ammonites, to battle against Jehoshaphat.
And they came in and spoke to Jehoshaphat, saying, A great multitude has come against you from beyond the sea, from Syria; and, behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar, which is En-gedi.
And Jehoshaphat feared, and set his face to seek to Jehovah, and proclaimed a fast over all Judah.
And Judah was gathered to inquire of Jehovah; also they came in to seek Jehovah from all the cities of Judah.
And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of Jehovah, at the front of the new court,
and said, O Jehovah, the God of our fathers, are not You the God in Heaven? Yea, You rule over all the kingdoms of the nations, and in Your hand is power and might; and there is none able to withstand You.
Are You not our God? You have driven out the inhabitants of this land from before Your people Israel, and have given it to the seed of Abraham, Your friend forever;
and they have lived in it, and have built in it a sanctuary to You for Your name, saying,
If evil shall come upon us, whether sword, judgment, or pestilence and famine, we shall stand before this house and before You, for Your name is in this house. and shall cry to You out of our distress, and You shall hear and save.
And now, behold, the sons of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom You did not allow Israel to go against when they came out of the land of Egypt, (for they turned away from them and did not destroy them)
yea, behold, they are repaying us by coming in to drive us out of Your possession, that You have caused us to possess.
O our God, shall You not execute judgment upon them? For there is no power in us before this great multitude that has come against us, and we do not know what we shall do; but our eyes are on You.
And all Judah was standing before Jehovah, and their infants and their wives and their sons.
And on Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite, of the sons of Asaph, the Spirit of Jehovah came on him in the midst of the assembly;
and He said, Listen, all Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and king Jehoshaphat; so says Jehovah to you, You shall not fear nor be terrified of the face of this great multitude, for the battle is not yours, but God's.
Tomorrow, go down against them; behold, they are coming up by the ascent of Ziz, and you shall find them in the end of the valley, at the front of the wilderness of Jeruel.
You shall not fight in this: station yourselves; stand and see the salvation of Jehovah with you, O Judah and Jerusalem; do not be terrified nor fear; tomorrow go out before them, and Jehovah shall be with you.
And Jehoshaphat bowed his nose to the earth, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before Jehovah, to bow themselves to Jehovah.
And the Levites, of the sons of the Kohathites, and of the sons of the Korahites, rose to give praise to Jehovah the God of Israel with a loud voice on high.
And they rose early in the morning and went out to the wilderness of Tekoa; and as they went out Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Believe in Jehovah your God, and be steadfast; believe in His prophets and prosper.
And he consulted with the people, and appointed singers to Jehovah, and those giving praise to the glory of holiness, when going out before those armed, and said, Give thanks to Jehovah, for His mercy endures forever.
And at the time they began with rejoicing and praise, Jehovah set ambushes against the sons of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, that had come against Judah; and they were stricken.
And the sons of Ammon stood up, and Moab, against the people of Mount Seir, to devote and destroy; and when they finished with the inhabitants of Seir, they helped, each man against his neighbor, to destroy.
And when Judah had come to the watchtower, to the wilderness, then they looked toward the multitude; and behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and there was no survivor.
And Jehoshaphat and his people came to seize their plunder; and they found among them in abundance both riches and valuable things on the corpses; and they stripped off for themselves until there was no carrying it ; and they were three days plundering the spoil; for it was much.
And on the fourth day they gathered at the Valley of Blessing, for they blessed Jehovah there; on account of this they have called the name of that place the Valley of Blessing to this day.
And they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat at their head, to go back to Jerusalem with joy; for Jehovah had made them rejoice over their enemies.
And they entered Jerusalem with harps and with lyres, and with trumpets, to the house of Jehovah.
And there was a fear of God on all kingdoms of the lands when they heard that Jehovah had fought with the enemies of Israel.
And the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was quiet, and his God gave him rest all around.
And Jehoshaphat was king over Judah, a son of thirty five years when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty five years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
And he walked in the way of his father Asa, and did not turn aside from it, to do the right in the eyes of Jehovah.
Only, the high places were not removed, and the people still had not settled their hearts for the God of their fathers.
And the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, the first and the last, behold, they are written in the words of Jehu the son of Hanani, which were taken up in the Book of the Kings of Israel.
And after this Jehoshaphat the king of Judah joined himself with Ahaziah the king of Israel; he did wickedly to do so.
And he joined himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish; and they made the ships in Eziongeber.
And Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, Because you have joined yourself with Ahaziah, Jehovah has broken your works. And the ships were broken, so that they did not hold to go to Tarshish.