Therefore, O man, thou are without excuse, every man who judges, for in what thou judge the other man, thou condemn thyself, for the man who judges is doing the same things.
And we know that the judgment of God is in accordance with truth against those who commit such things.
And think thou this, O man who judge those who do such things and do the same, that thou will escape the judgment of God?
Or do thou despise the wealth of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God guides thee to repentance?
But according to thy hardness, and thy impenitent heart, thou store up wrath to thyself in the day of wrath, and revelation, and righteous judgment of God,
who will render to each man according to his works,
to those who indeed seek by perseverance of good work, glory and esteem and immortality-eternal life-
but to those of self-interest, and who indeed disobey the truth but have confidence in unrighteousness-anger and wrath,
pressure and restriction, upon every soul of man who produces evil, both of the Jew first, and of the Greek,
but glory and esteem and peace to every man who works good, both to the Jew first, and to the Greek.
For there is no partiality with God.
For as many as have sinned without law will also be destroyed without law, and as many as have sinned in law will be judged by law.
For the hearers of the law are not righteous with God, but the doers of the law will be made righteous.
For when the Gentiles who have no law do by nature the things of the law, these men, not having law, are a law to themselves.
Who show the work of the law written in their hearts, testifying of their conscience, and their thoughts amidst each other accusing or also defending them
in a day when God judges the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, according to my good news.
Behold, thou are called a Jew, and rely upon the law, and boast in God,
and know his will, and approve the things that are significant, being instructed out of the law.
And thou have confidence in thyself to be a guide of the blind, a light of those in darkness,
a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of the childlike, having in the law the essence of knowledge and truth,
thou therefore who teach another, do thou not teach thyself? Thou who preach not to steal, do thou steal?
Thou who say not to commit adultery, do thou commit adultery? Thou who abhor idols, do thou rob temples?
Thou who boast in law, dishonor God by thy transgression of the law.
For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, just as it is written.
For circumcision is indeed beneficial if thou perform law, but if thou are a transgressor of law, thy circumcision has become uncircumcision.
If therefore a man of uncircumcision keeps the ordinances of the law, will not his uncircumcision be considered circumcision?
And the man of natural uncircumcision who fulfills the law, will judge thee, a transgressor of law through a document and circumcision.
For he is not a Jew in what is visible, nor is circumcision in what is visible, in flesh,
but he is a Jew in what is hidden, and circumcision is of the heart, in spirit not a document, whose praise is not from men but from God.