Let us then, leaving the first principles of the doctrine of Christ, press on to perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
of the doctrine of baptisms, and of the laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of everlasting judgment.
And this we will do, if God permit.
For it is impossible that those who have once been enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and been make partakers of the Holy Spirit,
and have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
and have fallen away, should again be renewed to repentance, since they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to open shame.
For the earth which hath drunk in the rain that cometh often upon it, and beareth plants useful to those for whose sake it is tilled, receiveth blessing from God;
but if it bear thorns and briers it is disapproved, and is near to being accursed; and its end is to be burned.
But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that are connected with salvation, though we do thus speak.
For God is not unjust so as to forget your work, and the love which ye showed toward his name, in that ye ministered and are still ministering to the saints.
But we earnestly desire that every one of you may show the same diligence with regard to the full assurance of your hope even to the end;
that ye may not become slothful, but imitators of those who through faith and endurance inherit the promises.
For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he could swear by no greater, he swore by himself,
saying, "Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee."
And so, having endured with patience, he obtained the promised blessing.
For men indeed swear by one who is greater, and the oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife.
Wherefore God, wishing more abundantly to show to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his purpose, confirmed it by an oath,
that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have strong encouragement, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us;
which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, sure and steadfast, and which entereth within the veil;
where as forerunner for us Jesus entered, having become a high-priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.