The Lord created man of the earth,
And turned him back to it again.

He gave them days by number, and a set time,
And gave them authority over the things that are thereon.

He endued them with strength proper to them;
And made them according to his own image.

He put the fear of  man upon all flesh,
And gave him  to have dominion over beasts and fowls.


Counsel, and tongue, and eyes,
Ears, and heart, gave he them to understand withal.

He filled them with the knowledge of wisdom,
And showed them good and evil.

He set his eye upon their hearts,
To show them the majesty of his works.


And they shall praise the name of his  holiness,
That they may declare the majesty of his works.

He added to them knowledge,
And gave them a law of life for a heritage.

He made an everlasting covenant with them,
And showed them his judgements.

Their eyes saw the majesty of his  glory;
And their ear heard the glory of  his voice.

And he said to them, Beware of all unrighteousness;
And he gave them commandment, each man concerning his neighbor.

Their ways are ever before him;
They shall not be hid from his eyes.


For every nation he appointed a ruler;
And Israel is the Lord’s portion.


All their works are as the sun before him;
And his eyes are continually upon their ways.

Their iniquities are not hid from him;
And all their sins are before the Lord.


With him the alms of a man is as a signet;
And he will keep the bounty of a man as the apple of the eye.

Afterwards he will rise up and recompense them,
And render their recompense upon their head.

Howbeit to them that repent he granteth a return;
And he comforteth them that are losing patience.

Return to the Lord, and forsake sins:
Make your prayer before his  face, and lessen the offence.

Turn again to the Most High, and turn away from iniquity;
And greatly hate the abominable thing.

Who shall give praise to the Most High in  the grave,
Instead of them which live and return thanks?

Thanksgiving perishes from the dead, as from one that is not:
He that is in life and health shall praise the Lord.

How great is the mercy of the Lord,
And his forgiveness to them that turn to him!

For all things can’t be in men,
Because the son of man is not immortal.

What is brighter than the sun? yet this fails:
And an evil man will think on flesh and blood.

He looks upon the power of the height of heaven:
And all men are earth and ashes.
