And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying:
Son of man, set thy face against the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them!
And say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Jehovah! Thus saith the Lord Jehovah to the mountains and to the hills, to the plains and to the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring the sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places;
and your altars shall be desolate, and your sun-images shall be broken; and I will cast down your slain before your idols.
And I will lay the carcasses of the sons of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.
In all places where ye dwell shall the cities be laid waste, and the high places be desolate; that your altars may be laid waste and made desolate, and your idols may be broken, and cease, and your sun-images may be cut down, and your works may be destroyed.
And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, that ye may know that I am Jehovah.
Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some that shall have escaped the sword among the nations, when ye shall be scattered through the countries.
And they of you that escape shall remember me among the nations whither they shall be carried captives, when I have broken their whorish heart which departed from me, and their eyes which went lusting after their idols; and they shall loathe themselves for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.
Then shall they know that I am Jehovah, and that I have not said in vain, that I would do all this evil to them.
Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Smite upon thy hand, and stamp with thy foot, and say, Alas for all the evil abominations of the house of Israel! for by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence shall they fall.
He that is far off shall die by pestilence, and he that is near shall fall by the sword, and he that remaineth and is preserved shall die by famine. Thus will I accomplish my fury upon them.
Then shall ye know that I am Jehovah, when their slain men shall be among their idols round about their altars, upon every high hill, upon all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every thick oak, in every place where they offered sweet savor to all their idols.
So will I stretch out my hand against them, and make the land desolate; yea, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath, in all their habitations; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.