Then Pilate, therefore, took Jesus and scourged him.
And the soldiers plaited a crown of thorn-branches, and put it upon his head; and they put on him a purple robe,
and said: Hail, King of the Jews. And they struck him with their open hands.
Then Pilate came out again, and said to them: Behold, I bring him out to you, that you may know that I find no fault in him.
Then Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorn-branches, and the purple robe. And Pilate said to them: Be hold the man!
When the chief priests and their attendants saw him, they cried out, saying: Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate said to them: Do you take him and crucify him; for I find no fault in him.
The Jews answered: We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God.
Then, when Pilate heard this word, he was the more afraid;
and he went into the governor’s palace again, and said to Jesus: Whence are you? But Jesus gave him no answer.
Then Pilate said to him: Do you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to crucify you, and authority to release you?
Jesus answered: You could have no authority over me, had it not been given you from above. Therefore, he that delivered me to you, has the greater sin.
After this Pilate sought to release him. But the Jews cried out, saying: If you release this man, you are not Cæsar’s friend. Every one that makes himself a king, speaks against Cæsar
Then Pilate, when he heard that word, led Jesus out, and sat on the judgment-seat, in a place called the Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha;
it was the preparation for the passover, and about the third hour; and he said to the Jews, Behold your king!
But they cried out: Away with him, away with him; crucify him! Pilate said to them: Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered: We have no king but Cæsar
Then he, therefore, delivered him to them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him away.
And, bearing his cross, he went forth into a place called the Place of a Skull, which is called, in Hebrew, Golgotha,
where they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus in the middle.
And Pilate wrote a superscription, and put it on the cross; and the writing was, JESUS THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Therefore many of the Jews read this superscription, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it was written in Hebrew and in Greek and in Latin.
Then the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate: Write not, The king of the Jews; but, that he said, I am the king of the Jews.
Pilate answered: What I have written, I have written.
Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his clothing, and made four parts, to each soldier a part; and they took his coat also. Now his coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.
Then they said, one to another, let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. This was done that the scripture might be fulfilled, which says: They divided my clothing among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. The soldiers, therefore, did these things.
Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Cleopas, and Mary Magdalene.
Then Jesus, seeing his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing by, said to his mother: Woman, behold your son.
Then he said to the disciple: Behold your mother. And from that hour that disciple took her to his own home.
After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said: I thirst.
Now a vessel full of vinegar had been set there; and they filled a sponge with vinegar, and put it upon a hyssop-stalk, and put it to his mouth.
Therefore, when Jesus had received the vinegar, he said: It is finished. And he bowed his head, and gave up his spirit.
Then the Jews, as it was the preparation, that the bodies might not remain on the cross on the sabbath, for that sabbath-day was a great day, besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken down.
Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first, and of the other that was crucified with him.
But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs:
but one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear; and immediately there came out blood and water.
And he that saw it has given testimony, and his testimony is true, and he knows that he speaks the truth, that you may believe;
for these things were done that the scripture might be fulfilled: A bone of him shall not be broken.
And again another scripture says: They shall look on him whom they pierced.
And after this, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly, for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission. He then came and took away the body of Jesus.
Then came Nicodemus also, (who, at the first, had come to Jesus by night,) bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds.
Then they took the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen cloths, with the spices, according to the Jewish custom of burying.
Now, in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever been laid.
There, then, on account of the preparation-day of the Jews, they laid Jesus, for the tomb was near.