And to the agent of the congregation in Sardis write, These things says he who has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars: I know thy works, that thou have a name that thou live, and thou are dead.
Become thou watchful, and strengthen the remaining things that thou were going to throw away, for I have not found thy works made complete before my God.
Remember therefore how thou have received and heard, and be on guard, and repent. If therefore thou will not watch, I will come upon thee as a thief, and thou will, no, not know what hour I will come upon thee.
But thou have a few names in Sardis who did not defile their garments. And they will walk with me in white, because they are worthy.
He who overcomes, this man will be clothed in white garments, and I will, no, not erase his name out of the book of life. And I will acknowledge his name before my Father, and before his agents.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the congregations.
And to the agent of the congregation in Philadelphia write, These things says the Holy, the True, he who has the key of David, who opens, and none will shut it except he who opens, and none will open:
I know thy works. Behold, I have given before thee an opened door that none is able to shut it, because thou have little power, and thou keep my word, and did not deny my name.
Behold, I give of the synagogue of Satan, those who say themselves to be Jews, and are not, but lie, behold, I will make them so that they will come and bow down before thy feet, and may know that I have loved thee.
Because thou keep the word of my perseverance, I also will keep thee from the hour of trial that is going to come upon the whole inhabited world, to try those who dwell upon the earth.
I come quickly, hold firm what thou have, so that none may take thy crown.
He who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will, no, not go out any more. And I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem (it comes down out of the heaven from my God), and my new name.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the congregations.
And to the agent of the congregation in Laodicea write, These things says the Truly, the faithful and true witness, the primacy of the creation of God:
I know thy works, that thou are neither cold nor hot. O that thou were cold or hot.
So because thou are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I am going to spew thee out of my mouth.
Because thou say, I am rich, and have become wealthy, and have need of nothing, and do not know that thou are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked.
I counsel thee to buy from me gold refined from fire, so that thou may become wealthy, and white garments, so that thou may clothe thyself, and the shame of thy nakedness may not be made known, and eye-salve, so that thou may anoint thine eyes, so that thou may see.
As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Be zealous therefore, and repent.
Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him, and will dine with him, and he with me.
He who overcomes, I will give him to sit with me in my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father in his throne.
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the congregations.