And he looked up, and saw the rich throwing their gifts into the treasury.
And he saw also a certain poor widow throw in thither two mites.
And he said: Of a truth, I say to you, that this poor widow has thrown in more than they all.
For all these, from their abundance, have thrown in among the gifts of God; but she, from her poverty, has thrown in all the living that she had.
And as some were saying of the temple, that it was adorned with beautiful stones and offerings, he said:
As for these things which you see, the days will come in which there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.
And they asked him, saying: Teacher, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign when these things come to pass?
He replied: Take heed that you be not deceived; for many will come in my name, saying: I am he; and, The time is near. Go not, therefore, after them.
But when you hear of wars, and tumults, be not terrified; for these things must first take place; but the end comes not immediately.
Then he said to them: Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
and there shall be great earthquakes in various places, and famines, and pestilences; and there shall be fearful sights and great signs from heaven.
But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to synagogues, and into prisons, after being brought before kings and governors for my name’s sake.
But this shall become to you the means of bearing testimony.
Therefore, determine in your hearts not to meditate beforehand what you shall answer;
for I will give you a mouth, and wisdom, which all your opposers shall not be able to gainsay or withstand.
But you will be delivered up by parents and brothers and relatives and friends; and some of you they will put to death;
and you will be hated by all for my name’s sake.
Yet a hair of your head shall not perish.
By your patient endurance, preserve your lives.
But when you shall see Jerusalem besieged by armies, then know that its desolation is near.
Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains; and let those who are in the midst of it, withdraw from it. Let those who are in the count try, not come within it.
For these are the days of vengeance, that all things that are written may be fulfilled.
But alas for them that are with child, and for them that give suck in those days! for there shall be great distress upon the land, and wrath upon this people.
And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and be led away captive among all nations; and Jerusalem shall be trodden down by the Gentiles, till the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
And there shall be signs in the sun and in the moon and in the stars; and on the earth, distress of nations in perplexity; the sea and its waves roaring;
men’s hearts failing on account of the fearful expectation of the things that are coming on the land; for the hosts of the heavens shall be shaken.
And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
When these things begin to take place, look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draws near.
And he spoke a parable to them: See the fig-tree, and all the trees;
when they now put forth leaves, you see, and know of yourselves that summer is near.
So likewise, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near.
Verily I say to you, This generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled.
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.
And take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts become heavy with reveling and drunkenness and the cares of life, and that day come upon you when you look not for it.
For as a snare, it shall come on all that dwell on the face of all the land.
Watch, therefore, and pray at all times, that you may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.
And in the day-time he was teaching in the temple. But he went out and passed the nights in the mount called the mount of Olives.
And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple, in order to hear him.