And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel, that they bring to thee pure beaten olive oil for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
Aaron shall keep it outside the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, in order from evening to morning before Jehovah continually. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.
He shall keep the lamps upon the pure lampstand in order before Jehovah continually.
And thou shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it. Two tenth parts of an ephah shall be in one cake.
And thou shall set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before Jehovah.
And thou shall put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be on the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
Every sabbath day he shall set it in order before Jehovah continually. It is on the behalf of the sons of Israel, an everlasting covenant.
And it shall be for Aaron and his sons. And they shall eat it in a holy place, for it is most holy to him of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire by a perpetual statute.
And the son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the sons of Israel. And the son of the Israelite woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp,
and the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed. And they brought him to Moses. And his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
And they put him in ward, that it might be declared to them at the mouth of Jehovah.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Bring forth him who has cursed outside the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him.
And thou shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin.
And he who blasphemes the name of Jehovah, he shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall certainly stone him. As well the sojourner, as the home-born, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.
And he who smites any man mortally shall surely be put to death.
And he who smites a beast mortally shall make it good, life for life.
And if a man causes a blemish in his neighbor, as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
injury for injury, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, as he has caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be rendered to him.
And he who kills a beast shall make it good. And he who kills a man shall be put to death.
Ye shall have one manner of law, as for the sojourner, as for the home-born, for I am Jehovah your God.
And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, and they brought forth him who had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. And the sons of Israel did as Jehovah commanded Moses.