JUDGE not, that ye be not judged.
For with the same judgment ye judge others, shall ye be judged: and with the measure ye mete, shall it be measured to you again.
And why spiest thou out the mote which is in thy brother’s eye, yet payest no attention to the beam which is in thine own eye?
Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Suffer me to take the mote off from thine eye: and behold there is a beam in thine own eye?
Thou hypocrite, take first the beam out of thine own eye and then shalt thou see clearly to take off the mote from thy brother’s eye.
Give not that which is holy to dogs, nor cast pearls before swine; lest they tread them under foot, and turning round tear you.
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:
for every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
What man is there of you, of whom if his son ask a loaf, will he give him a stone?
or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?
If ye then, evil as ye are, know how to bestow good gifts on your children; how much more will your Father who is in heaven, bestow good things on those who ask him?
All things therefore whatsoever ye would be willing that men should do to you, just so do ye to them: for this is the law and the prophets.
Enter in through the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and spacious the road, which leadeth to perdition, and they are many who enter that way:
because strait is the gate, and narrow the road, which leadeth to life, and they are but a few who find it.
Take heed then of false prophets, who come to you in the garb of sheep, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
By their fruits ye shall know them. Do men gather a bunch of grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
So every good tree beareth good fruits; but every bad tree in kind, produceth bad fruits.
A good tree cannot produce bad fruits, neither can a tree bad in kind produce good fruits.
Every tree that beareth not good fruit, is cut down, and cast into the fire.
Well then! by their fruits ye shall know them.
Not every one who saith to me, Lord, Lord! shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have we not cast out devils? and in thy name done many miracles?
And then will I profess unto them, that I never knew you: depart from me, ye workers of iniquity.
Every man therefore who is hearing from me these words, and puts them in practice, I will compare him to the intelligent man, who erected his house upon a rock:
and the rain descended, and the rivers rushed, and the winds blew, and they beat against that house, and it fell not; for it was founded on a rock.
And every man who is hearing these sayings of mine, and doth not practise them, he will resemble the foolish man, who built his house upon the sand:
and the rain descended, and the rivers rushed, and the winds blew, and set against that house, and it fell; and the fall of it was great.
And it was so, that when Jesus had concluded all these sayings, the multitudes were exceedingly struck with his teaching:
for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes.