And David and the army commanders separated to the service those of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who were prophets with lyres and with cymbals. And the number of the workmen according to their service was:
of the sons of Asaph, Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons under the hands of Asaph, who prophesied according to the order of the king.
Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, and Shimei, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with the lyre to give thanks and to praise the LORD.
Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Josh-bekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
All these were under the hands of their father for song in the house of the LORD, with cymbals, harps and lyres, for the service of the house of God, according to the king's order to Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman.
So the number of them, with their brothers who were instructed in the songs of the LORD, all that were skillful, was two hundred and eighty-eight.
And they cast lots, for duty, the small as well as the great, the teacher as the pupil.
And the first lot came out for Asaph to Joseph; the second was to Gedaliah, with his brothers and sons, twelve;
the third was to Zaccur, his sons and his brothers, twelve men;
the fourth was to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the fifth was to Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the sixth was to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the seventh was to Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the eighth was to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the ninth was to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the tenth was to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the eleventh was to Azareel, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the twelfth was to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the thirteenth was to Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the fourteenth was to Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the fifteenth was to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve,
the sixteenth was to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the seventeenth was to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the eighteenth was to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the nineteenth was to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the twentieth was to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the twenty-first was to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the twenty-second was to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the twenty-third was to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
the twenty-fourth was to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.