I commend to you Phœbe our sister, who is a deaconess of the church that is in Cenchrea,
that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of saints, and that you aid her in whatever matter she may have need of you; for she has aided many, and myself also.
Salute Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow-laborers in Christ Jesus;
who, for my life, laid down their own necks; to whom not only do I give thanks, but all the churches of the Gentiles:
and salute the church that is in their house. Salute Epenetus my beloved, who is the first fruits of Asia to Christ.
Salute Mary, who bestowed much labor on us.
Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellow-prisoners, who are noted among the apostles, who, also, were in Christ before me.
Salute Amplias, my beloved in the Lord.
Salute Urbanus, our fellow-workman in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
Salute Appelles, approved in Christ. Salute those who are of the household of Aristobulus.
Salute Herodion, my kinsman. Salute those of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.
Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labored in the Lord. Salute Persis the beloved, who labored much in the Lord.
Salute Rufus, the chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hernias, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren with them.
Salute Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints that are with them.
Salute one another with a holy kiss. The churches of the Christ salute you.
Now I beseech you, brethren, to mark those who make divisions and cause offenses in opposition to the teaching which you have learned, and avoid them.
For such serve not our Lord Christ, but their own appetites; and, by good words and fair speeches, they deceive the hearts of the simple.
For your obedience has gone abroad to all men: I rejoice, therefore, on your account. But I desire you to be wise in respect to that which is good, and guileless in respect to that which is evil.
The God of peace will soon bruise Satan under your feet.   The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Timothy, my fellow-workman, and Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you.
I, Tertius, who wrote this letter, salute you in the Lord.
Gaius, my host, and the host of the whole church, salutes you. Erastus the treasurer of the city, and Quartus, my brother, salute you.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel, even the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery which was concealed during the times of the ages,
but is now made manifest, and through the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, made known among all nations for the obedience of faith,
to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, be glory throughout the ages. Amen.