You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep driven away, and hide yourself from them. You shall surely turn them back to your brother.
And if your brother is not near you, and you do not know him, then you shall surely bring it home to your house; and it shall be with you until your brother inquires of it; and you shall restore it to him.
And so you shall do with his ass. and so you will do with his clothing, and so you shall do with everything lost of your brother's, which he has lost and you have found; you may not hide it .
You shall not see your brother's ass or his ox fallen down in the highway, and hide yourself from them. You shall surely help him lift up.
There shall not be the thing of a man on a woman, nor shall a man put on a woman's garment. For whoever does these things is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
If a bird's nest happens to be before you in the way in any tree, or on the ground, with young ones, or eggs; and the mother is sitting on the young, or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young.
But in every case you shall let the mother go, and take the young for yourself, so that it may be well with you, and you may prolong your days.
When you build a new house, then you shall make a guard rail for your roof, so that you do not put blood on your house if someone falls from it.
You shall not sow your vineyard with different kinds of seeds, that the fruit of your seed which you have sown and the fruit of your vineyard not be defiled.
You shall not plow with an ox and an ass together.
You shall not wear a garment of different kinds, of wool and linen together.
You shall make for yourself tassels on the four corners of your cloak with which you cover.
If any man takes a wife, and goes in to her, and hates her,
then makes shameful charges against her, and brings up an evil name on her, and says, I took this woman, and when I came near her, I did not find in her the tokens of virginity.
Then the girl's father and her mother shall take and bring the girl's tokens of virginity to the elders of the city in the gate.
And the girl's father shall say to the elders, I have given my daughter to this man for a wife, and he hates her.
And, behold, he has laid shameful charges, saying, I have not found in your daughter the tokens of virginity. And yet see these tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the garment before the elders of the city.
And the elders of that city shall take that man and punish him.
And they shall fine him a hundred pieces of silver, and give them to the girl's father, because he has caused an evil name to be spread abroad on a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife; he may not put her away all his days.
But if this thing is true that tokens of virginity have not been found for the girl,
then they shall bring out the girl to the door of her father's house. And the men of her city shall stone her with stones, and she shall die; for she has done folly in Israel, to commit fornication in her father's house. And you shall put away the evil from among you.
If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the man that lay with the woman, and the woman. And you shall put away the evil from Israel.
If there is a girl that is a virgin, betrothed to a man, and a man finds her in the city, and lies with her,
then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city. And you shall stone them with stones so that they die, the girl because she did not cry out, being in the city; and the man, because he has humbled his neighbor's wife. And you shall put away the evil from among you.
But if a man finds a betrothed girl in the field, and the man seizes her and lies with her; then only the man that lay with her shall die.
And you shall do nothing to the girl; the girl has no sin worthy of death; for as when a man rises against his neighbor and murders him, even so is this matter.
For he found her in the field, and the betrothed girl cried out, but no one saved her.
If a man finds a virgin girl, not being betrothed, and seizes her and lies with her, and they be found;
then the man lying with her shall give to the girl's father fifty pieces of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he has humbled her. He may not put her away all his days.
A man shall not take his father's wife, and shall not uncover his father's skirt.