Having therefore, these, promises, beloved, let us purify ourselves from all pollution of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in fear of God.
Give place to us! no one, have we wronged, no one, have we corrupted, no one, have we defrauded.
Unto condemnation, I am not saying [this], for I have before said—In our hearts, are ye, to the end we may die together and live together.
Great, is my freedom of speech towards you, great, is my boasting in behalf of you: I am filled with the encouragement, I am greatly superabounding with the joy, in all our tribulation.
For, even when we came into Macedonia, no relief at all, had our flesh; but, in every way, were we in tribulation,—without, fightings! within, fears!
But, he who encourageth them that are brought low, encouraged us,—even God,—by the presence of Titus.
Not, however, by his presence alone, but also by the encouragement wherewith he had been encouraged over you: recounting unto us your earnest desire, your lamentation, your zeal in my behalf. So that I the more rejoiced.
Because, if I even grieved you by the letter, I do not regret,—though I could even have regretted,—I see that that letter, if even for an hour, did cause you grief.
Now, am I rejoicing,—not that ye were grieved, but that ye were grieved unto repentance; for ye were grieved according to God, in order that, in nothing, should ye receive damage from us.
For, grief according to God, worketh, repentance unto salvation, not to be regretted; although, the grieving of the world, worketh, death.
For lo! this very thing—the being caused to grieve, according to God:—what manner of diligence it wrought out in you,—nay! defence,—nay! sore displeasure,—nay! fear,—nay! earnest desire,—nay! jealousy,—nay! avenging. In every way, ye shewed yourselves to be, chaste, in the matter.
Hence, if I even wrote unto you, it was not for the sake of him that did the wrong, [nay] not even for the sake of him that suffered the wrong; but for the sake of your earnestness, which was on our account, being made manifest unto you, before God:-
For this cause, have we received encouragement. In addition to our encouragement, however, much more abundantly, have we rejoiced over the joy of Titus,—that his spirit hath received refreshment from you all,
That, if in anything—unto him—in your behalf—I have boasted, I have not been put to shame; but, as, all things, in truth, we told you, so, even our boasting before Titus, turned out to be, truth.
And, his tender affections, are, much more abundantly towards you, when he calleth to mind the obedience, of you all,—how, with fear and trembling, ye gave him welcome.
I rejoice that, in everything, I am of good courage respecting you.