Joash reigned in the seventh year of Jehu. And he reigned forty years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Zibiah of Beersheba.
And Joash did that which was good in the eyes of Jehovah all his days in which Jehoiada the priest guided him;
only, the high places were not destroyed; the people still sacrificed and offered incense in high places.
And Joash said to the priests, All the silver of the devoted things that is brought into the house of Jehovah, the silver coming over, each man the silver of his valuation, all the silver that comes upon any man's heart to bring into the house of Jehovah,
even the priests shall take to themselves, each man from his friend; and they shall repair the breach of the house, in all places where a breach may be found.
And it happened, in the twenty third year of King Joash, that the priests had not repaired the breach of the house.
And king Joash called to Jehoiada the priest, and the priests, and said to them, Why have you not repaired the breach of the house? And now, do not receive any silver from your friends, but give it for the breach of the house.
And the priests consented not to receive silver from the people, nor to strengthen the breach of the house.
And Jehoiada the priest took a chest and cut a hole in its lid, and put it near the altar, on the right side, as one comes into the house of Jehovah, and the priests who kept the door put in it all the silver brought into the house of Jehovah.
And it happened, when they saw that the silver in the chest was plentiful, that a scribe of the king, and the high priest went up, and they bound it up, and counted the silver found in the house of Jehovah.
And they weighed silver into the hands of those doing the work, those overseeing the house of Jehovah; and they brought it out to the craftsmen in wood, and to the builders who were working on the house of Jehovah,
and to the masons, and the stone cutters, and to buy wood and cut stone to strengthen the breach of the house of Jehovah; and for all that went out on the house, to make it strong.
However, there were not made for the house of Jehovah basins of silver, snuffers, bowls, trumpets, any vessels of gold or vessels of silver, of the silver brought into the house of Jehovah;
For they gave it to those doing the work, and they made strong the house of Jehovah with it.
And they did not reckon with the men into whose hand they gave the silver, to give to those doing the work, for they were dealing with faithfulness.
And the guilt offering silver and the sin offering silver was not brought into the house of Jehovah, for it was the priests'.
Then Hazael the king of Syria went up and fought against Gath, and captured it; and Hazael set his face to go up against Jerusalem.
And Joash the king of Judah took all the dedicated things that Jehoshaphat, and Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, the kings of Judah, had dedicated, and his own dedicated things, and all the gold found in the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and of the house of the king, and sent to Hazael the king of Syria; and he went away from Jerusalem.
And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And his servants rose up and made a conspiracy and killed Joash in the house of Millo, which goes down to Silla.
For Jozachar the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, killed him; and he died. And they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And his son Amaziah reigned in his place.