And it came to pass, when Solomon had made an end of building the house of Yahweh, and the house of the king, and everything that Solomon desired, which he was pleased to make,
then appeared Yahweh unto Solomon, a second time,—as he appeared unto him, in Gibeon.
And Yahweh said unto him—I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication, wherewith thou hast made supplication before me, I have hallowed this house, which thou hast built, to put my Name there unto times age-abiding,—and mine eyes and my heart shall be there, continually:
As for thee, therefore, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, with a whole heart and with uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded thee,—and, my statutes and my regulations, wilt keep,
then will I establish the throne of thy kingdom over Israel, unto times age-abiding,—as I promised unto David thy father, saying, There shall not be cut off to thee a man, from off the throne of Israel.
If ye, turn back, ye or your sons, from following me, and keep not my commandments, my statutes, which I have set before you,—but depart and serve other gods, and bow yourselves down to them,
then will I cut off Israel, from the face of the soil, which I have given unto them, and, the house which I have hallowed for my Name, will I suffer to be carried away from before me,—and Israel shall become a byword and a mockery, among all the peoples;
and, this house which had been renowned, shall be desolate, every one that passeth by it, shall be astonished and shall whistle,—and men shall say—For what cause, hath Yahweh done, thus, unto this land, and unto this house?
And men will answer—Because they forsook Yahweh their God, who brought forth their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold of other gods, and bowed themselves down to them, and served them, for this cause, hath Yahweh brought in upon them all this ruin.
And it came to pass, at the end of twenty years, when Solomon had built the two houses,—the house of Yahweh, and the house of the king;
Hiram king of Tyre having supplied Solomon with timber of cedar, and with timber of fir, and with gold, according to all his desire, that, then, King Solomon gave unto Hiram twenty cities, in the land of Galilee.
And Hiram came out from Tyre to view the cities which, Solomon, had given him,—and they were not pleasing in his eyes.
So he said—What cities are these which thou hast given me, my brother? And he called them, Unfruitful Land, [as they are called] unto this day.
Now Hiram had sent to the king,—a hundred and twenty talents of gold.
Now, the following, is an account of the tax which King Solomon raised, for building the house of Yahweh and his own house, and Millo, and the wall of Jerusalem,—and Hazor and Megiddo, and Gezer.
Pharaoh king of Egypt, had gone up and captured Gezer, and burned it with fire, the Canaanites also who were dwelling in the city, had he slain,—and had given it as a dowry, to his daughter, wife of Solomon.
So then Solomon built Gezer, and Beth-horon, the nether,
and Baalath and Tadmor in the wilderness, in the land;
also all the store cities, which Solomon had, and the cities for chariots, and the cities for horsemen,—and the desire of Solomon that he was pleased to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land that he ruled over.
All the people that were left, of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, who were, not of the sons of Israel;
their sons, who were left after them in the land, whom the sons of Israel were not able to devote to destruction, Solomon levied them for a toiling labour-band [which remaineth] unto this day.
But, of the sons of Israel, Solomon devoted none to bond-service,—but, they, were men of war, and his servants, and his generals, and his heroes, and captains of his chariots, and his horsemen.
These, were the chiefs of the officers, who were over the work, for Solomon, five hundred and fifty,—who ruled over the people that wrought in the work.
Scarcely had Pharaoh’s daughter come up out of the city of David, into her own house, which he had built for her, when he built Millo.
And Solomon used to offer, three times a year, ascending-sacrifices and peace-offerings, upon the altar which he had built unto Yahweh, and to offer incense at the altar which was before Yahweh,—thus Solomon gave completeness unto the house.
A fleet also, did King Solomon build in Ezion-geber, which is beside Eloth on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom.
And Hiram sent in the fleet his servants, seamen, having knowledge of the sea,—with the servants of Solomon;
and they came to Ophir, and fetched from thence, gold, four hundred and twenty talents,—and brought it to King Solomon.