At that tyme Herod the tetrarcha hearde of the fame of Iesu
and sayde vnto his servautes: This is Ihon ye baptist. He is risen agayne from deeth and therfore are soche myracles wrought by him.
For Herod had taken Ihon and bounde him and put him in preson for Herodias sake his brother Philips wyfe.
For Ihon sayde vnto him: Yt is not lawfull for the to have her.
And when he wold have put him to deeth he feared the people because they counted him as a prophet.
But when Herodes birth daye was come the doughter of Herodias daunsed before them and pleased Herod.
Wherfore he promised wt an oth that he wolde geve hir whatsoever she wolde axe.
And she beinge informed of her mother before sayde: geve me here Ihon baptistes heed in a platter.
And ye kynge sorowed. Neverthelesse for his othes sake and for their sakis which sate also at ye table he comaunded yt to be geven hir:
and sent and beheeded Ihon in the preson
and his heed was brought in a platter and geven to the damsell and she brought it to her mother.
And his disciples came and toke vp his body and buryed it: and went and tolde Iesus.
When Iesus hearde that he departed thence by shippe in to a desert place out of ye waye. And when the people had hearde therof they folowed him afote out of their cities.
And Iesus went forth and sawe moche people and his herte did melte vpon them and he healed of them those that were sicke.
When even was come his disciples came to him sayinge. This is a deserte place and the daye is spent: let the people departe yt they maye go into ye tounes and bye them vytayllis.
But Iesus sayde vnto them. They have no neade to go awaye. Geve ye the to eate.
Then sayde they vnto him: we have here but .v. loves and two fysshes.
And he sayde: bringe the hyther to me.
And he comaunded ye people to syt downe on ye grasse: and toke ye .v. loves and the .ii. fysshes and loked vp to heven and blessed and brake and gave the loves to his disciples and the disciples gave them to ye people.
And they dyd all eate and were suffised. And they gadered vp of ye gobbetes that remayned vii. basketes full.
And they yt ate werein nobre about .v.M. men besyde wemen and chyldren.
And strayght waye Iesus made his disciples enter into a shippe and to goo over before him whill he sent ye people awaye.
And assone as he had sent the people awaye he went vp into a moutayne alone to praye. And when nyght was come he was there himsilf alone.
And the shippe was now in the middes of the see and was toost with waves for it was a cotrary wynde.
In the fourthe watche of ye night Iesus came vnto them walkynge on the see.
And when his disciples sawe him walkynge on the see they were troubled sayinge: it is some spirite and cryed out for feare.
And streyght waye Iesus spake vnto them sayinge: be of god cheare it is I be not afrayed.
Peter answered him and sayde: master if thou be he bid me come vnto the on the water.
And he sayde come. And when Peter was come doune out of ye shippe he walked on ye water to go to Iesus.
But when he sawe a myghty wynde he was afrayed. And as he beganne to synke he cryed sayinge: master save me.
And immediatly Iesus stretched forth his hode and caught him and sayde to him: O thou of lytell faith wherfore diddest thou dout?
And assone as they were come in to ye shippe ye wynde ceassed.
Then they that were in the shippe came and worshipped him sayinge: of a truth thou arte ye sonne of God.
And when they were come over they went in to ye londe of Genazareth.
And when ye men of yt place had knowledge of him they sent out in to all yt countre rounde about and brought vnto him all that were sicke
and besought him that they myght touche the hemme of his vesture only. And as many as touched it were made safe.