Give ear, O God, to my prayer, And do not hide thyself from my supplication:
Attend unto me, and answer me, I may ramble in my complaining, And be driven to and fro—
Because of the noise of the enemy, By reason of the oppression of the lawless one, For they would let trouble drop upon me, And, in anger, would they entrap me.
My heart, would writhe within me, And, the terrors of Death, have fallen upon me:
Fear and trembling, would enter me, And there would have overwhelmed me—a horror!
Then I said—Oh that there were given me a pinion, like a dove, I would fly away and be at rest:
Lo! I would take a distant flight, I would tarry in the wilderness. [Selah.]
I would hasten mine escape, From rushing wind, from storm.
Confuse, O My Lord, divide their speech, For I have seen violence and contention in the city;
Day and night, they go round her, upon her walls, And, trouble and misery, are in her midst;
Engulfing ruin, is in her midst, And there depart not from her broadway, oppression and deceit.
For it is, not an enemy, that reproacheth me, Or I could bear it,—Not one that hath hated me, who, against me, hath magnified himself, Or I might hide myself from him;
But it is, thou, a man esteemed as mine equal, mine associate, and mine acquaintance;
So that together have we been wont to find sweetness in counsel, In the house of God, used we to walk in the throng.
Desolations on them! Let them go down into hades alive, For, wicked doings, are at home within them.
I, unto God, will cry,—And, Yahweh, will save me.
At evening and morning and high noon, have I been wont to lament and complain, And he hath heard my voice!
He hath completely redeemed my soul, out of the attack upon me, For, in multitudes, were they [in conflict] with me.
GOD will hear, Yea He will humble them who aforetime sat [enthroned] . [Selah.] With whom are no changings, Neither have they revered God.
He hath thrust forth his hands, against them he was wont to salute, he hath violated his covenant;
Smoother than curds, were [the words of] his mouth, But, war, was [in] his heart,—Softer his words than oil, Yet, they, were drawn swords!
Cast upon Yahweh thy lot, and, he, will sustain thee: He will not suffer, to times age-abiding, the righteous one to be shaken.
But, thou, O God, wilt bring them down to the pit of destruction, Men of bloodshed and deceit, shall not live out half their days; But, I, will trust in thee.