Then truly the first tabernacle had also ordinances of divine service and an earthly sanctuary.
For the first tabernacle was prepared, in which was both the lampstand, and the table, and the setting out of the loaves, which is called holy.
And after the second veil was a tabernacle which is called the Holy of Holies,
having a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid all around with gold, in which was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tablets of the covenant.
And over it were the cherubs of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat (about which we cannot now speak piece by piece.
Now when these things were ordained in this way, the priests always went into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God.
But once in the year into the second the high priest goes alone, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the errors of the people)
the Holy Spirit signifying by this that the way into the Holiest of all was not yet made manifest while the first tabernacle was still standing.
For it was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him who did the service perfect as regards the conscience,
which stood only in meats and drinks, and different kinds of washings and fleshly ordinances, imposed on them until the time of reformation.
But when Christ had become a high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building
nor by the blood of goats and calves, but by His own blood He entered once for all into the Holy of Holies, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
For if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifies to the purifying of the flesh,
how much more shall the blood of Christ (who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself unblemished spot to God) purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And for this cause He is the Mediator of the new covenant, so that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, those who are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
For where a covenant is, the death of him covenanting must be offered.
For a covenant is affirmed over those dead, since it never has force when the covenanting one is living.
From which we see that neither was the first covenant dedicated without blood.
For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the Law, he took the blood of calves and of goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people,
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God has enjoined to you."
And likewise he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry.
And almost all things are by the law purged with blood, and without shedding of blood is no remission.
Therefore it was necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these, but the heavenly things themselves were purified with better sacrifices than these.
For Christ has not entered into the Holy of Holies made with hands, which are the figures of the true, but into Heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us.
Nor yet that He should offer Himself often, even as the high priest enters into the Holy of Holies every year with the blood of others
(for then He must have suffered often since the foundation of the world), but now once in the end of the world He has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself.
And as it is appointed to men once to die, but after this the judgment,
so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. And to those who look for Him He shall appear the second time without sin to salvation.