There is now, therefore, no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus.
For the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has freed me from the law of sin, and of death.
For what the law could not do, because it was weak through the flesh, God has done, who, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for a sin-offering, condemned sin in the flesh,
that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit.
For those who are according to the flesh, mind the things of the flesh; but those who are according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit.
For the mind of the flesh is death; but the mind of the Spirit is life and peace.
Because the mind of the flesh is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, nor indeed can it be.
Those, then, who are in the flesh, can not please God.
But you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Now, if any one has not the Spirit of Christ, he is not his.
But if Christ is in you, the body is dead, on account of sin, but the Spirit is life, on account of righteousness.
And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he that raised the Christ from the dead will give life to your mortal bodies, because of his Spirit that dwells in you.
Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh;
for if you live according to the flesh, you shall die: but if, through the Spirit, you put to death the deeds of the body, you shall live.
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.
For you have not again received the spirit of bondage, that you may fear; but you have received the spirit of adoption, by which we cry, Abba, Father.
The Spirit itself testifies with our spirit, that we are the children of God;
and, if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together.
For I consider the sufferings of the present time not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed for us.
For the earnest expectation of the creature waits for the revelation of the sons of God.
For the creature was subject to frailty, (not by its own will, but for his sake who subjected it,)
in hope, that even the creature itself shall be made free from the bondage of corruption, and introduced into the glorious liberty of the children of God.
For we know that every creature groans, and is in pain together, till now:
and not only they, but ourselves also, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body.
For we are saved by this hope; but hope that is seen is not hope; for, what any one sees, why does he also hope for it?
But if we hope for that which we see not we wait for it with patience.
In like manner, also, the Spirit helps our infirmities; for we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself intercedes for us, with groanings unutterable.
And he that searches the hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, that he intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.
And we know that all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose.
For those whom he foreknew, he predestinated to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the first-born among many brethren:
and those whom he predestinated he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified.
What, then, shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us?
He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how will he not with him also freely give us all things?
Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God’s elect? It is God that justifies.
Who is he that condemns? It is Christ that died: rather, indeed, that has risen, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Who shall separate us from the love of the Christ? Shall affliction, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or the sword?
As it is written: For thy sake, we are killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.
Yet, in all these things, we are more than conquerors, through him that loved us.
For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
nor hight, nor depth, nor any other creature, will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.