And we turned and went up by the way of Bashan, and Og the king of Bashan came out to meet us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
And Jehovah said to me, Do not fear him, for I have given him into your hand, and all his people, and his land. And you shall do to him as you have done to Sihon the king of the Amorites who lived in Heshbon.
And Jehovah our God also gave Og the king of Bashan into our hands, and all his people. And we struck him until not one survivor was left to him.
And we captured all his cities at that time, there not being a city which we did not take from them, sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
All these cities were fortified with high walls, gates and double-leaved doors, besides a great many of the unwalled towns.
And we utterly destroyed them, as we had done to Sihon the king of Heshbon, destroying every city, the men, the women and the little ones.
And we plundered for ourselves all the livestock, and the plunder of the cities.
And we took the land that was beyond the Jordan from the valley of Arnon to Mount Hermon, out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites.
The Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir;
all the cities of the tableland, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, to Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
For only Og the king of Bashan remained of the rest of the giants. Behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; is it not in Rabbath of the sons of Ammon, nine cubits long and four cubits broad, by the cubit of a man?
And we possessed this land at that time: from Aroer by the valley of Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead And its cities I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites.
And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob, to all Bashan that is called the land of the giants.
Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maachathites, and called them, even Bashan, after his own name, Towns of Jair, until today.
And I gave Gilead to Machir.
And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave from Gilead even to the valley of Arnon, the middle of the valley and its border; even to the Jabbok River, which is the border of the sons of Ammon;
and the Arabah, the Jordan and its border, from Chinnereth even to the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, under the Slopes of Pisgah eastward.
And I commanded you at that time, saying, Jehovah your God has given you this land to possess it. And you shall pass over armed before your brothers, the sons of Israel, all the warriors.
Only, your wives and your little ones, and your livestock, shall dwell in your cities which I have given to you. I know that you have much livestock.
It shall be until Jehovah shall give rest to your brothers like yourselves, and they, too, have possessed the land which Jehovah your God is giving to them beyond the Jordan. Then you shall each man return to his possession which I have given to you.
And I at that time commanded Joshua, saying, Your eyes have seen all that Jehovah your God has done to these two kings; so Jehovah shall do to all the kingdoms to which you are passing over.
Do not fear them for Jehovah your God, He shall fight for you.
And I prayed to Jehovah for favor at that time, saying,
Lord Jehovah, You have begun to show Your servant Your greatness and Your mighty hand (for who is a God in the heavens or in the earth who can do according to Your works and according to Your might?)
I pray to You, let me pass over and see the good land which is beyond the Jordan, this good hill country, and Lebanon.
But Jehovah was angry with me on your account, and would not listen to me. And Jehovah said to me, let it be enough for you; do not speak any more to Me about this thing.
Go up to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes westward and northward and southward and eastward, and see with your eyes; for you shall not cross over this Jordan.
And command Joshua and make him strong, and make him brave, for he shall cross over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which you shall see.
So we stayed in the valley across from Bethpeor.