Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good; for His mercy endures forever.
Let the redeemed of Jehovah say so , whom He redeemed from the hand of the foe;
and gathered them from the lands; from east and from west; from north and from south.
They wandered in the wilderness, in a desert way; they found no city of dwelling;
hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them;
and they cried to Jehovah in their distress; He delivered them from their straits.
And He guided them in the right way; to go to a city of dwelling.
Let them thank Jehovah for His mercy, and His wonders to the sons of man.
He satisfies the thirsty soul, and He fills the hungry soul with good.
Those who live in the darkness, and in the shadow of death, being prisoners in affliction and iron,
because they rebelled against the words of God, and despised the counsel of the Most High;
and He humbled their heart by toil; they stumbled, and none were helping;
and they cried to Jehovah in their distress; He saved them out of their distresses;
He brought them out from darkness and the shadow of death; and He broke their bands apart.
Let them thank Jehovah for His mercy, and His wonders to the sons of man.
For He has broken the gates of bronze; and He cut bars of iron in two.
Fools are afflicted from the way of their rebellion, and from their iniquities;
their soul hates every food; and they touch the gates of death;
and they cried to Jehovah in their distress; He saved them from their straits;
He sent His word and healed them; and delivered them from all their pitfalls.
Let them thank Jehovah for His mercy, and His wonders to the sons of man.
And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and recount His works with rejoicing.
They who go down to the sea in ships, who work in the great waters;
these see the works of Jehovah, and His wonders in the deep.
For He speaks, and He raises stormy wind, and makes its waves high;
they go up to the heavens; they go down to the depths; their soul is melted because they are in evil;
they reel and stagger like a drunken man, and all their wisdom is swallowed up;
and they cry to Jehovah in their distress, and He saves them out of their straits.
He settles the storm to a whisper, so that its waves are still;
and they are glad, because they are quiet; and He led them to their desired haven.
Let them thank Jehovah for His mercy, and His wonders to the sons of mankind;
and exalt Him in the congregation of the people; and praise Him in the seat of the elders.
He sets rivers to a wilderness, and watersprings to thirsty ground;
a fruitful land to a salty desert; because of the wickedness of those who live in it.
He puts the wilderness into waterponds; and dry land into water-springs;
and He makes the hungry live there, and they may prepare a city of dwelling.
And they sow the fields, and plant vineyards, and make fruits of produce.
He also blesses them, so that they multiply greatly; and He does not allow their cattle to diminish;
but they are diminished and humbled, from coercion, evil and grief.
He pours scorn on nobles, and causes them to wander in a desert; there is no path.
But He raises the poor up from affliction, and He sets families like a flock.
The upright shall see and be glad; and all iniquity shuts its mouth.
Whoever is wise and will observe these things , they shall discern the mercies of Jehovah.