And it came to pass, after the year was expired, at the time when kings go forth [to battle], that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they destroyed the sons of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried still at Jerusalem.
And it came to pass one evening, that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman [was] very beautiful to look upon.
And David sent and enquired after the woman. And [one] said, [Is] not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah, the Hittite?
And David sent messengers and took her, and she came in unto him, and he lay with her. Then she purified herself from her uncleanness, and she returned unto her house.
And the woman conceived and sent and told David and said, I [am] with child.
Then David sent to Joab, [saying], Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David.
And when Uriah had come unto him, David asked [him] how Joab was and how the people were and how the war prospered.
And David said to Uriah, Go down to thy house and wash thy feet. And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and royal food was sent unto him.
But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord and did not go down to his house.
And when they had told David, saying, Uriah did not go down unto his house, David said unto Uriah, Didst thou not come from [thy] journey? Why [then] didst thou not go down to thy house?
And Uriah said unto David, The ark and Israel and Judah abide in tents, and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open fields; shall I then go into my house, to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife? [By thy] life and [by] the life of thy soul, I will not do this thing.
And David said to Uriah, Tarry here today also, and tomorrow I will let thee depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day and the next day.
And when David had called him, he ate and drank before him, and he made him drunk; and in the evening he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord but did not go down to his house.
And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent [it] by the hand of Uriah.
And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle and retire from him, that he may be smitten and die.
And it came to pass, when Joab observed the city, that he assigned Uriah unto a place where he knew that the most valiant men [were].
And the men of the city came out and fought with Joab, and [some] of the people of the servants of David fell, and Uriah the Hittite died also.
Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war
and charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast finished telling the matters of the war unto the king,
and if the king begins to be angry and he should say unto thee, Why did you approach so near unto the city when ye fought? Did ye not know that which they can throw down from the wall?
Who smote Abimelech, the son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman cast a piece of a millstone upon him from the wall, that he died in Thebez? Why did you go near the wall? Then thou shalt say, Thy servant Uriah, the Hittite, is dead also.
So the messenger went and came and told David all that Joab had sent him for.
And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed against us and came out unto us into the field, and we made them retreat unto the entering of the gate.
And the archers shot from off the wall upon thy servants, and [some] of the king's servants are dead, and thy servant Uriah, the Hittite, is dead also.
Then David said unto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say unto Joab, Let not this thing displease thee, for the sword devours one as well as another; strengthen the battle against the city until it is overthrown and encourage thou him.
And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah, her husband, was dead, she mourned for her husband.
And when the mourning was past, David sent and brought her to his house, and she became his wife and gave birth to a son unto him. But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD.: