And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
If any person sins and is slyly treacherous against Jehovah, and deals falsely with his neighbor concerning a deposit, or concerning security, or by robbery, or has extorted his neighbor,
or has found a lost thing and has lied about it, and has sworn to a falsehoods regards to any one of all these which a man does, sinning in them,
then it shall be, when he sins and is guilty, he shall return what he got by robbery, that which he robbed, or the extorted thing which he extorted, or the deposit which had been deposited with him, or the lost thing which he had found;
or all that about which he swore falsely; he shall even repay it in its principal, and the fifth part he shall add to it; to whomever it belongs. He shall give it on the day of his guilt offering.
And he shall bring his guilt offering to Jehovah: a ram, a perfect one out of the flock, at your evaluation for a guilt offering, to the priest.
And the priest shall make atonement for him before Jehovah, and as regards to one thing of all that he has done, it shall be forgiven him, by being guilty in it.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering; it is the burnt offering because it is burned on the altar all the night until the morning, and the fire of the altar is kept burning on it.
The priest shall put on his long robe of fine linen, and he shall put his linen underpants on his flesh. And he shall lift up the ashes which the fire consumed with the burnt offering on the altar, and shall put them beside the altar.
And he shall strip off his garments, and shall put on other garments, and shall bring the ashes out to the outside of the camp, to a clean place.
And the fuel on the altar shall be kept burning on it; it shall not be put out. And the priest shall burn wood on it morning by morning. And he shall lay the burnt offering in order on it. And he shall burn it as incense with the fat of the peace offering.
Fire shall be continually burning on the altar; it shall never go out.
And this is the law of the food offering: the sons of Aaron shall bring it near before Jehovah, to the front of the altar.
And he shall lift from it his handful of the flour of the food offering, and of its oil, and all the frankincense on the food offering. And he shall burn it as incense on the altar, a soothing fragrance from its memorial to Jehovah.
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the rest. It shall be eaten with unleavened things in the holy place, in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it.
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion out of My fire offerings. It is most holy, like the sin offering, and like the guilt offering.
Every male among the sons of Aaron shall eat it, a never ending statute throughout your generations from the fire offerings of Jehovah. All that touches them shall be holy.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
This is the offering of Aaron and his sons which they shall bring near to Jehovah on the day he is anointed: a tenth of an ephah of flour, a continual food offering; half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening.
It shall be made on a griddle with oil. You shall bring it in mixed. You shall bring baked pieces of the food offering, a soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And the priest who is anointed in his place, from among his sons, shall make it. It is a never ending statute of Jehovah. It shall be completely burned;
and every food offering of a priest is a whole burnt offering. It shall not be eaten.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is killed, the sin offering shall be killed before Jehovah. It is most holy.
The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. It shall be eaten in the holy place in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation.
All that touches its flesh shall be holy. And when any of its blood is sprinkled on the garment, that on which it is sprinkled shall be washed in the holy place.
And an earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken. And if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, then it shall be scoured and rinsed with water.
Every male among the priests shall eat of it. It is most holy.
And any sin offering of whose blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation to make atonement in the sanctuary shall not be eaten. It shall be burned with fire.