Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.
And she bore him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
And Jokshan fathered Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim and Letushim and Leummim.
And the sons of Midian: Ephah and Epher and Hanoch and Abida and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac.
But to the sons of the concubines which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts. And he sent them away from Isaac his son while he still lived, eastward to the east country.
And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life, which he lived: a hundred seventy-five years.
And Abraham expired and died in a good old age, old and satisfied. And he was gathered to his people.
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre,
the field which Abraham bought from the sons of Heth. Abraham and Sarah his wife were buried there.
And after the death of Abraham, it happened that God blessed his son Isaac. And Isaac lived by The Well of the Living One, My Beholder.
And these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bore to Abraham.
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations. The first-born of Ishmael was Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
Hadad, and Tema and Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
These were the sons of Ishmael, and these were their names, by their towns and by their settlements; twelve chiefs according to their nations.
And these were the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred thirty-seven years. And he expired and died, and was gathered to his people.
And they lived from Havilah to Shur, which is before Egypt, as you go toward Assyria. And he died in the presence of all his brothers.
And these were the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham fathered Isaac.
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padan-aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian.
And Isaac prayed to the LORD for his wife, because she was barren. And the LORD heard him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
And the sons struggled together within her. And she said, If it is so, why am I this way? And she went to inquire of the LORD.
And the LORD said to her, Two nations are in your womb, and two kinds of people shall be separated from your bowels. And the one people shall be stronger than the other people, the older shall serve the younger.
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, twins were in her womb!
And the first came out red, all over like a hairy garment. And they called his name Esau.
And after that his brother came out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel. And his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.
And the boys grew. And Esau was a man knowing hunting, and Jacob was a simple man, living in tents.
And Isaac loved Esau, for game was in his mouth. But Rebekah loved Jacob.
And Jacob boiled soup. And Esau came from the field, and he was faint.
And Esau said to Jacob, I beg you, Let me eat of the red, this red soup, for I am faint. Therefore his name was called Edom.
And Jacob said, Sell me your birthright today.
And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point of dying, and what profit shall this birthright be to me?
And Jacob said, Swear to me this day. And he swore to him, and he sold his birthright to Jacob.
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and soup of lentils. And he ate and drank, and rose up and went his way. And Esau despised his birthright.