Paul, an apostle,—not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father who raised him from among the dead,
And all the brethren with me;—unto the assemblies of Galatia:
Favour unto you and peace, from God our Father, and Lord Jesus Christ,—
Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,—
Unto whom be the glory unto the ages of ages: Amen!
I marvel that, thus quickly, ye are moving away from him that called you in the favour of Christ, unto a different glad-message,—
Which is not, another, only there are, some, that are troubling you, and wishing to change the glad-message of the Christ.
But, even if, we, or, a messenger out of heaven, announce a glad-message [unto you] aside from that which we announced unto you, accursed, let him be!
As we have said before, even now, again, I say: If anyone is announcing unto you a glad-message aside from that which ye accepted, accursed, let him be!
For am I, even now, persuading, men, or God? Or am I seeking to please, men? If I had been still pleasing, men, Christ’s servant, had I not been!
For I make known unto you, brethren, as to the glad-message which was announced by me, that it is not after man;
For neither, from man, did I accept it, nor was taught [it],—but through a revealing of Jesus Christ.
For ye have heard, as to my own manner of life, at one time, in Judaism, how that, exceedingly, was I persecuting the assembly of God, and laying it waste,
And was making advancement, in Judaism, above many contemporaries in my nation, being, surpassingly zealous, of my paternal instructions.
But, when God, who set me apart from my mother’s womb and called me through his favour, was well-pleased
to reveal his Son in me, that I might announce the glad-message regarding him among the nations, straightway, I conferred not with flesh and blood,
Neither went I up unto Jerusalem unto them who, before me, were apostles,—but I went away into Arabia, and again returned unto Damascus.
Then, after three years, went I up unto Jerusalem, to become acquainted with Cephas, and tarried with him fifteen days;
But, other of the apostles, saw I none, save James the brother of the Lord:—
Now, as touching the things which I am writing to you, lo! before God, I am not guilty of falsehood:—
After that, I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia,
And was still unknown, by face, unto the assemblies of Judaea which were in Christ,—
Only they were hearing—He that was persecuting us formerly, now, is announcing the glad-message of the faith which he formerly laid waste;
And they were glorifying, God, in me.