In those days, there being again a great multitude, and they having nothing to eat, he called the disciples to him, and saith to them,
I have compassion on the multitude, because they have remained with me now three days, and they have nothing to eat.
And if I send them away fasting to their houses, they will faint on the road; and some of them have come from altar.
And his disciples answered him, Whence can ally one satisfy these men with bread here in a wilderness?
And he asked them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven.
And he ordered the multitude to lie down on the ground; and he took the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and broke, and gave to his disciples to set before them; and they set them before the multitude.
And they had a few small fishes; and having blessed them, he set them before them.
And they ate, and were filled; and they took up of the fragments that remained, seven baskets.
And they were about four thousand; and he sent them away.
And immediately going on board the boat with his disciples, he came into the region of Dalmanutha.
And the Pharisees came out, and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, trying him.
And sighing deeply in his spirit, he saith, Why doth this generation seek for a sign? Truly do I say to you, A sign will not he given to this generation.
And leaving them, he again went on board and crossed to the other side.
And they had forgotten to take bread, and had not in the boat with them more than one loaf.
And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and the leaven of Herod.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread.
And knowing it, he saith to them, Why are ye reasoning, because ye have no bread? Do ye not yet perceive nor understand? Have ye your mind still blinded?
Having eyes, do ye not see? and having ears, do ye not hear? And do ye not remember,
when I broke the five loaves among the five thousand, and how many baskets full of fragments ye took up? They say to him, Twelve.
When also the seven among the four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments did ye take up? And they say, Seven.
And he said to them, Do ye not yet understand?
And they come to Bethsaida. And they bring to him a blind man, and beseech him to touch him.
And taking the blind man by the hand, he led him out of the village; and spitting on his eyes, and putting his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything.
And he looked up, and said, I can see men, for I see them as trees, walking.
Then he again put his hands on his eyes, and he saw clearly, and was restored, and saw all things distinctly.
And he sent him away to his house, saying, Go not into the village.
And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am?
And they answered him, saying, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; and others, One of the prophets.
And he asked them, But who do ye say that I am? Peter answering saith to him, Thou art the Christ.
And he strictly charged them to tell no one concerning him.
And he began to teach them that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be put to death, and after three days rise again;
and he told them this plainly. And Peter, taking him aside, began to rebuke him.
But he turning about and looking at his disciples, rebuked Peter, and saith, Get thee behind me, Satan! for thy thoughts are not on the things of God, but on those of men.
And calling the multitude to him with his disciples also, he said to them, Whoever chooseth to follow me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever chooseth to save his life, will lose it; but whoever shall lose his life for the sake of me and of the glad tidings, will save it.
For what doth it profit a man to gain the whole world, and forfeit his life?
For what can a man give as an exchange for his life?
For whoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will also the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.