He that separateth himself seeketh his own desire, and snarlest against all sound wisdom.
A fool hath no delight in understanding, but only that his heart may lay itself bare.
When the wicked cometh, there cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach.
The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters; a flowing brook, a fountain of wisdom.
It is not good to respect the person of the wicked, so as to turn aside the righteous in judgment.
A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes.
A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are the snare of his soul.
The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
Even one that is slack in his work is brother to him that is a destroyer.
The name of HaShem is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is set up on high.
The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as a high wall in his own conceit.
Before destruction the heart of a man is haughty, and before honour goeth humility.
He that giveth answer before he heareth, it is folly and confusion unto him.
The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a broken spirit who can bear?
The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.
A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.
He that pleadeth his cause first seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him out.
The lot causeth strife to cease, and parteth asunder the contentious.
A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city; and their contentions are like the bars of a castle.
A man's belly shall be filled with the fruit of his mouth; with the increase of his lips shall he be satisfied.
Death and life are in the power of the tongue; and they that indulge it shall eat the fruit thereof.
Whoso findeth a wife findeth a great good, and obtaineth favour of HaShem.
The poor useth entreaties; but the rich answereth impudently.
There are friends that one hath to his own hurt; but there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.