Do not sharply rebuke an elder, but exhort as a father; and younger ones as brothers,
older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.
Honor widows, the ones really being widows.
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn first to be godly to their own house and to make a return payment to their forebears, for this is good and pleasing before God.
But honor the one being really a widow, even having been left alone, who has set her hope on God and continues in petitions and prayers night and day.
But she who lives in self-pleasure has died while living.
And enjoin these things that they may be blameless.
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially his family, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
Let a widow be enrolled having become not less than sixty years, the wife of one man,
being witnessed by good works, if she brought up children, if she hosted strangers, if she washed the feet of the saints, if she relieved afflicted ones, if she followed after every good work.
But refuse younger widows; for whenever they grow lustful against Christ, they desire to marry,
having guilt because they set aside the first faith;
and with it all, they also learn to be idle, going around the houses, and not only idle, but also gossips and busybodies, speaking the things not proper.
Therefore, I desire the young women to marry, to bear children, to rule the house, giving no occasion to the adversary on account of reproach.
For some already have turned aside behind Satan.
If any believing man or believing woman has widows, let them relieve them , and do not burden the church, that it may relieve those being really widows.
Let the elders who take the lead well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those laboring in word and teaching.
For the Scripture says, "You shall not muzzle an ox treading out grain," and, the laborer is worthy of his pay. Deut. 25:4
Do not receive an accusation against an elder unless on " the testimony of " "two or three witnesses." Deut. 19:15
The ones sinning before all, rebuke, that the rest also may have fear.
I solemnly witness before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels, that you should guard these things without prejudice, doing nothing by way of partiality.
Lay hands quickly on no one, nor share in the sins of others. Keep yourself pure.
No longer drink water, but use a little wine on account of your stomach and your frequent infirmities.
The sins of some men are plain before, going before to judgment, but indeed some follow after.
Likewise, also the good works are plain beforehand, and those otherwise cannot be hidden.