And it came to pass, as the multitude was pressing upon him and hearing the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret,
and saw two boats standing by the lake; but the fishermen had gone out of them, and had washed the nets.
And going into one of the boats, which was Simon’s, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And sitting down in the boat, he taught the multitudes.
And when he had done speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into deep water, and let down your nets for a draught.
And Simon answering said, Master, we toiled all night, and took nothing; but at thy word I will let down the nets.
And having done this, they inclosed great multitude of fishes; and their nets began to break.
And they beckoned to their partners in the other boat, to come and help them; and they came, and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink.
And Simon Peter seeing it fell down at the knees of Jesus, saying, Depart from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man.
For he and all that were with him were amazed at the draught of fishes, which they had taken;
and so were also James and John the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon And Jesus said to Simon, Fear not; henceforth thou shalt catch men.
And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything, and followed him.
And it came to pass, when he was in one of the cities, lo! a man full of leprosy; and seeing Jesus, he fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst cleanse me.
And he put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I will; be thou cleansed. And immediately the leprosy left him.
And he charged him to tell no one: but go, and show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing as Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
But so much the more went abroad the report concerning him; and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed of their infirmities.
But he was wont to withdraw to desert places, and pray.
And it came to pass on a certain day, that he was teaching, and there were sitting by Pharisees and teachers of the law, who had come from every town of Galilee and Judea, and from Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was present that he might heal.
And lo! men brought on a bed a man that was palsied; and they endeavored to bring him in, and to set him before him.
And not finding any way to bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the house-top, and let him down through the tiling with the couch into the midst before Jesus.
And seeing their faith, he said, Man, thy sins have been forgiven thee.
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this that speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?
But Jesus, perceiving their thoughts, answered and said to them, What are ye thinking in your hearts?
Which is easier? to say, Thy sins have been forgiven thee? or to say, Arise, and walk?
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins,—he said to the palsied man,—I say to thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go to thy house.
And he immediately rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and went away to his house, giving glory to God.
And amazement seized them all, and they gave glory to God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to-day.
And after these things he went out, and saw a publican named Levi, sitting at the custom-house; and he said to him, Follow me.
And leaving everything, he arose and followed him.
And Levi made a great feast for him at his house, and there was a great company of publicans and others, who were reclining at table with them.
And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with the publicans and sinners?
And Jesus answering said to them, They who are well do not need a physician, but they who are sick.
I have not come to call righteous men, but sinners to repentance.
And they said to him, The disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise those of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink.
But Jesus said to them, Can ye make the companions of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them?
But the days will come—and when the bridegroom is taken from them, then will they fast in those days.
And he spoke also a parable to them: No one taketh a patch from a new garment and putteth it upon an old one; for then both the new garment would be rent, and the patch from the new garment would not match with the old.
And no one putteth new wine into old skins; for the new wine would burst the skins, and would itself run out, and the skins would be spoilt.
But new wine must be put into new skins.
And no one, having drunk old wine, desireth new; for he saith, The old is good.