And in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Abijam reigned over Judah.
He reigned three years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.
And he walked in all the sins of his father which he had done before him. And his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father.
But for David's sake the LORD his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem,
because David did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, and did not turn aside from all that He commanded him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.
And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.
And the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.
And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And his son Asa reigned in his place.
And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa reigned over Judah.
And he reigned in Jerusalem forty-one years. And his grandmother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.
And Asa did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, as David his father did.
And he took away the sodomites out of the land and removed all the idols that his fathers had made.
And also he even removed his mother Maachah from being queen because she had made an idol in a grove. And Asa destroyed her idol and burned it by the brook Kidron.
But the high places were not removed. But Asa's heart was perfect with the LORD all his days.
And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated, and the things which he himself had dedicated, into the house of the LORD, silver and gold and vessels.
And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and built Ramah, so that he might not allow any to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
And Asa took all the silver and the gold left in the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants. And king Asa sent them to Ben-hadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, who lived at Damascus, saying,
There is a treaty between you and me, between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent to you a present of silver and gold. Come and break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel, so that he may depart from me.
And Ben-hadad listened to king Asa, and sent the commanders of the armies which he had against the cities of Israel, and struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-beth-maachah, and all Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.
And it happened when Baasha heard, he left off building Ramah and lived in Tirzah.
And king Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah. None was free from it. And they took away the stones of Ramah, and its timber with which Baasha had built. And king Asa built Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah with them.
The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet.
And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father. And his son Jehoshaphat reigned in his place.
And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years.
And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin with which he made Israel to sin.
And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him. And Baasha struck him at Gibbethon, which was to the Philistines. For Nadab and all Israel laid siege to Gibbethon.
And in the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha killed him and reigned in his place.
And it happened when he reigned, he struck all the house of Jeroboam. He did not leave Jeroboam any who breathed, until he had destroyed him, according to the saying of the LORD which He spoke by His servant Ahijah the man of Shiloh,
because of the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and which he made Israel sin, by his provocation with which he provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger.
And the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah began to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, twenty-four years.
And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin with which he made Israel to sin.