And as he passed by, he saw a man that had been blind from his birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying: Rabbi, who sinned, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?
Jesus answered: Neither this man sinned, nor his parents; but that the works of God might be made manifest in him.
I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day; the night comes, when no man can work.
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
Having said this, he spit on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and spread the clay on the eyes of the blind man,
and said to him: Go, wash in the pool of Siloam; which, translated, means Sent. He went, therefore, and washed and came seeing.
Then his neighbors, and those who had before seen him, that he was blind, said: Is not this he that sat and begged?
Some said: It is he. Others: He is like him. But he said: I am he.
Then they said to him: How were your eyes opened?
He answered and said: A man called Jesus made clay and spread it on my eyes, and said to me: Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. After I had gone and washed, I received my sight.
Then they said to him: Where is he? He said: I know not.
They brought to the Pharisees him that had formerly been blind.
And it was the sabbath when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Then again the Pharisees also inquired of him how he had received his sight. He said to them: He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
Then some of the Pharisees said: This man is not from God, for he keeps not the sabbath. Others said: How can a man that is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them?
Again they said to the blind man: What say you of him, seeing that he opened your eyes? He said: He is a prophet.
The Jews did not, therefore, believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, till they called the parents of him that had received his sight,
and asked them, saying: Is this your son, who, you say, was born blind? How, then, does he now see?
His parents answered them, and said: We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
but how he now sees we know not; or who opened his eyes we know not. He is of age; ask him; he will speak for himself.
His parents said this, because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed, that if any one should confess him to be the Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
For this reason his parents said: He is of age; ask him.
Then, the second time, they called the man who had been blind, and said to him: Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
He answered and said: If he is a sinner, I know it not. One thing I do know, that having been blind, I now see.
They said to him again: What did he for you? How did he open your eyes?
He answered them: I have already told you, and you did not understand; why would you hear it again? Do you also wish to become his disciples?
They reviled him, and said: You are the disciple of that man; but we are the disciples of Moses.
We know that God spoke to Moses; but as for this man, we know not whence he is.
The man answered and said to them: Why, there is something wonderful in this, that you know not whence he is, and yet he has opened my eyes.
We know that God hears not sinners; but if any one be a worshiper of God, and do his will, him he hears.
Since the beginning it has not been heard that any one opened the eyes of one who had been born blind.
If this man were not of God, he could do nothing.
They answered and said to him: You were wholly born in sins, and do you teach us? And they cast him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out. And having found him, he said to him: Do you believe on the Son of God?
He answered and said: Who is he, sir, that I may believe on him?
Jesus said to him: You have seen him; and it is he that talks with you.
He said: Lord, I believe; and he worshiped him.
And Jesus said: For judgment have I come into this world, that those who see not, may see; and that those who see, may become blind.
And some of the Pharisees who were with him, heard these things, and said to him: Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them: If you were blind, you would not have sin; but now you say, We see; therefore your sin remains.