And David the king said to all the congregation, Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is young and tender, and the work is great. For the palace is not for man, but for the LORD God.
And I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for things of gold, and the silver for things of silver, and the bronze for things of bronze, the iron for things of iron, and wood for things of wood, onyx stones, and stones to be set, and also stones of antimony, and stones of many colors, and every precious stone, and stones of alabaster, in abundance.
And also, because I have delighted in the house of my God, out of my own treasure of gold and silver I have given to the house of my God over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house,
three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the houses;
the gold for things of gold, and the silver for things of silver, and for all kinds of work by the hands of skillful workers. And who is willing to consecrate his service this day to the LORD?
And the chiefs of the fathers, and the rulers of the tribes of Israel, and the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers of the king's work, offered willingly.
And they gave for the service of the house of God five thousand talents of gold and ten thousand darics, and ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.
And he who had precious stones gave to the treasury of the house of the LORD by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
And the people rejoiced, because they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy.
And David blessed the LORD before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed are You, LORD God of Israel our father, forever and ever.
O LORD, Yours is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and, the majesty. For all in the heavens and in the earth is Yours. Yours is the kingdom, O LORD, and You lift up Yourself to all as Head.
And the riches and the honor are from You, and You reign over all. And in Your hand is power and might. And it is in Your hand to make great and to give strength to all.
And now, our God, we thank You and praise Your glorious name.
But who am I, and who my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things are from You, and we have given to You that which is Yours.
For we are strangers before You, and pilgrims, as our fathers were. Our days on the earth are like a shadow, and none abides.
O LORD our God, all this store that we have prepared to build You a house for Your holy name comes from Your hand, and is all Your own.
I know also, my God, that You try the heart, and have pleasure in uprightness. I, in the uprightness of my heart, have willingly offered all these things. And now I have seen with joy Your people who are present here to offer willingly to You.
O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of Your people, and prepare their heart to You.
And give to Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep Your commandments, Your testimonies, and Your statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the magnificent house for which I have made ready.
And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the LORD your God! And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fathers, and bowed and worshiped the LORD, and bowed to the king.
And they sacrificed sacrifices to the LORD, and offered burnt offerings to the LORD on the next day after that day a thousand bulls, a thousand rams, a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel.
And they ate and drank before the LORD on that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed him before the LORD as ruler, and Zadok to be as priest.
And Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king in place of David his father. And he was blessed, and all Israel obeyed him.
And all the rulers and the mighty men, and also all the sons of king David submitted themselves to Solomon the king.
And the LORD made Solomon very great in the sight of all Israel, and placed on him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.
And David, the son of Jesse, reigned over all Israel.
And the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years. He reigned seven years in Hebron, and thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor. And Solomon his son reigned in his place.
And the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,
with all his reign and his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the lands.