And Nahash the Ammonite went up and camped against Jabesh-gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Cut a covenant for us, and we will serve you.
And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, With this I will cut a covenant for you, when all the right eye is dug out for you; and I will make it a reproach on all Israel.
And the elders of Jabesh said to him, Slack off from us seven days, and we will send messengers in all the boundary of Israel. And if there is no deliverer for us, then we will come out to you.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul. And they spoke the words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice and wept.
And, behold, Saul came behind the oxen from the field. And Saul said, What is it to the people, that they weep? And they related to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And the Spirit of God came powerfully on Saul when he heard these words, and his anger glowed greatly.
And he took the team of oxen and cut them in pieces, and he sent them into all the boundary of Israel, by the hand of the messengers, saying, Whoever does not come out after Saul and after Samuel, so it shall be done to his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell on the people. And they came out as one man.
And he mustered them in Bezek, and the sons of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah, thirty thousand.
And they said to the messengers who came, So you shall say to the men of Jabesh-gilead. Tomorrow there shall be deliverance for you, in the heat of the sun. And the messengers came and related this to the men of Jabesh; and they rejoiced.
And the men of Jabesh said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you do to us according to all the good in your eyes.
And it was on the next day Saul put the people in three heads, and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch and they struck Ammon until the heat of the day. And it was, the ones left were scattered; in them were not two left together.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he saying, Shall Saul reign over us? Give the men and we will put them to death.
And Saul said, Not a man shall be put to death on this day, for today Jehovah worked deliverance in Israel.
And Samuel said to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal and renew the kingdom there.
And all the people went to Gilgal and made Saul to reign there in Gilgal, before the face of Jehovah. And they offered Sacrifices of peace offerings there before Jehovah. And Saul and all the men of Israel greatly rejoiced there.