The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from Jehovah.
All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes, but Jehovah weighs the spirits.
Commit thy works to Jehovah, and thy purposes shall be established.
Jehovah has made everything for its own end, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to Jehovah. Hand in hand, he shall not be unpunished.
By mercy and truth iniquity is atoned for, and by the fear of Jehovah men depart from evil.
When a man's ways please Jehovah, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Better is a little, with righteousness, than great revenues with injustice.
A man's heart devises his way, but Jehovah directs his steps.
A divine sentence is in the lips of the king. His mouth shall not transgress in judgment.
A just balance and scales are Jehovah's. All the weights of the bag are his work.
It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness, for the throne is established by righteousness.
Righteous lips are the delight of kings, and they love him who speaks right.
The wrath of a king is messengers of death, but a wise man will pacify it.
In the light of the king's countenance is life, and his favor is as a cloud of the latter rain.
How much better it is to get wisdom than gold! Yea, to get understanding is rather to be chosen than silver.
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil. He who keeps his way preserves his soul.
Pride is before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
Better it is to be of a lowly spirit with the poor, than to divide the spoil with the proud.
He who gives heed to the word shall find good, and whoever trusts in Jehovah, happy is he.
The wise in heart shall be called prudent, and the sweetness of the lips increases learning.
Understanding is a well-spring of life to him who has it, but the correction of fools is folly.
The heart of the wise instructs his mouth, and adds learning to his lips.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb: Sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
There is a way which seems right to a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
The appetite of the laboring man labors for him, for his mouth urges him.
A worthless man devises mischief, and in his lips there is as a scorching fire.
A perverse man scatters abroad strife, and a whisperer separates chief friends.
A man of violence entices his neighbor, and leads him in a way that is not good.
He who shuts his eyes devises perverse things. He who moves his lips brings evil to pass.
The hoary head is a crown of glory. It shall be found in the way of righteousness.
He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit, than he who takes a city.
The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of Jehovah.