Then cried he in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Draw near ye that have charge of the city,-even every man with his weapon of destruction in his hand.
And lo! six men coming in out of the way of the upper gate which looketh toward the north even every man with his destructive weapon in his hand, and one man in their midst clothed with linen, having a scribe’s ink holder by his side,—so they came in and stood beside the altar of bronze.
And the glory of the God of Israel lifted itself up from off the cherub whereon it had been, unto the threshold of the house,—and he called unto the man clothed with linen, who had the scribe’s ink holder by his side.
Then said Yahweh unto him. Pass along through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem,—and set thou a mark upon the foreheads of the men who are sighing and crying over all the abominations that are being done in her midst.
But unto these, said he in mine ears, Pass along through the city after him and smite,—let not your eye, shield, neither have ye pity:
elder, young man and virgin and little ones and women, shall ye slay utterly, but unto any man who hath upon him the mark, do not ye come near, and at my sanctuary, shall ye begin. So they began with the elder men. who were before the house.
And he said unto them Defile ye the house and fill the courts with the slain,—go ye forth! So they went forth and smote in the city.
And it came to pass, while they were smiting them—I being left remaining, that I fell upon my face and made outcry, and said Alas! My Lord. Yahweh art thou about to destroy all the remnant of Israel, in that thou art pouring out of thine indignation upon Jerusalem?
And he said unto me the iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah, is exceeding, great, and the land is filled with shed blood, and the city is full of over-reaching,—for they have said. Yahweh hath forsaken the land,— and Yahweh doth not see.
Therefore as for even me, Mine eye shall not shield. Neither will I pity,— Their way upon their own head, have I rendered.
And lo! the man clothed in linen, having the ink-holder by his side, bringing back word saying,— I have done according to all which thou didst command me.