Do not boast yourself of tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring forth.
Let another man praise you, and not your mouth; a stranger, and not your lips.
A stone is heavy, and sand is heavy; but a fool's wrath is heavier than them both.
Wrath is cruel, and anger is overwhelming; but who is able to stand before envy?
Open rebuke is better than secret love.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
The full soul despises a honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.
As a bird that wanders from her nest, so is a man who wanders from his place.
Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart; so does the sweetness of one's friend by advice from the heart.
Your own friend, and your father's friend, do not forsake them; nor go to your brother's house in the day of your trouble; better is a neighbor that is near than a brother far off.
My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, so that I may answer him who shames me.
A sensible one foresees the evil and hides himself, but the simple pass on and are punished.
Take his robe that is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge from him for a strange woman.
He who blesses his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him.
A never-ending dropping in a very rainy day and a quarrelsome woman are alike.
Whoever hides her hides the wind, and his right hand encounters slippery oil.
Iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the face of his friend.
Whoever keeps the fig tree shall eat its fruit; so he who waits on his master shall be honored.
As in water face answers to face, so the heart of man answers to man.
Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are never satisfied.
As the refining pot for silver and the furnace for gold, so is a man to his praise.
Though you should pound a fool in a bowl with a bar in the midst of wheat, his foolishness will not depart from him.
Know well the face of your flocks; set your heart on your herds.
For riches are not forever; nor the crown from generation to generation?
When the hay is removed, and the tender grass is seen, and mountain-plants are gathered,
the lambs are for your clothing, and the goats are the price of the field.
And you shall have goats' milk enough for your food, for the food of your household, and a living for your young women.