Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I would not have you ignorant.
You know that being led away, you nations were led to dumb idols.
Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus is a curse, and that no one can say that Jesus is Lord, but by the Holy Spirit.
But there are differences of gifts, but the same Spirit.
And there are differences of ministries, but the same Lord.
And there are differences of workings, but it is the same God working all things in all.
But to each one is given the showing forth of the Spirit to our profit.
For through the Spirit is given to one a word of wisdom; and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
and to another faith by the same Spirit; and to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit;
and to another workings of powers, to another prophecy; and to another discerning of spirits; and to another kinds of tongues; and to another the interpretation of tongues.
But the one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing separately to each one as He desires.
For as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ.
For also by one Spirit we are all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free, even all were made to drink into one Spirit.
For the body is not one member, but many.
If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
If all the body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If all hearing, where would be the smelling?
But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body as it has pleased Him.
And if they were all one member, where would be the body?
But now indeed many are the members, yet only one body.
And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
But much rather the members of the body seeming to be weaker are necessary.
And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, on these we put more abundant honor around them. And our unpresentable members have more abundant propriety.
For our presentable members have no need, but God tempered the body together, giving more abundant honor to the member having need;
that there not be division in the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another.
And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; if one member is glorified, all the members rejoice with it.
And you are the body of Christ, and members in part.
And God set some in the church, firstly, apostles; secondly, prophets; thirdly, teachers, then works of power, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, kinds of languages.
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of power?
Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak languages? Do all interpret?
But zealously strive after the better gifts. And yet I show to you a more excellent way.