Paul, an apostle, not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead,—
and all the brethren that are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from the present evil world, according to the will of God our Father;
to whom be the glory for ever and ever! Amen.
I marvel that ye are so soon turning from him that called you in the grace of Christ, to a different gospel;
which is not another; only there are certain persons who are troubling you, and seeking to change entirely the gospel of Christ.
But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel to you contrary to that which we preached to you, let him be accursed!
As we have said before, so I now say again, If any one preach a gospel to you contrary to that which ye received, let him be accursed!
For do I now seek the favor of men, or of God? Or am I endeavoring to please men? If I were still pleasing men, I should not be the servant of Christ.
But I assure you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not after man;
for I did not receive it from man nor was I taught it by any man, but it was revealed to me by Jesus Christ.
For ye have heard of my conduct formerly in Judaism; that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and was destroying it,
and made progress in Judaism beyond many of the same age with me in my nation, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased him who set me apart from my very birth, and called me through his grace,
to reveal his Son within me, that I might publish the glad tidings of him among the gentiles, immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood,
neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
Then, after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Cephas, and stayed with him fifteen days;
but no other of the apostles did I see, save James the brother of the Lord.
Now as to what I am writing to you, behold, before God, I do not lie.
Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;
and I was unknown by face to the churches of Judaea which were in Christ;
but they were only hearing that "He who was once our persecutor is now preaching the faith which he was once destroying";
and they glorified God in me.