The orderings of the heart are for man, and the answer of the tongue from Jehovah.
All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but Jehovah weighs the spirits.
Roll your works on Jehovah, and your thoughts shall be established.
Jehovah has made all for His purpose, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
Everyone proud in heart is disgusting to Jehovah; though hand join in hand he shall not be innocent.
Iniquity is covered by mercy and truth, and in the fear of Jehovah, men turn aside from evil.
When a man's ways please Jehovah, He makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Better is a little with righteousness than great increase without right.
A man's heart plans his way, but Jehovah fixes his step.
A godly decision is on the lips of the king, his mouth is not treacherous in judgment.
A just scale and balances are to Jehovah, all the stones of the bag are His work.
It is an abomination for kings to commit wickedness, for the throne is made firm by righteousness.
Righteous lips are the kings' delight, and he speaking uprightly is loved.
A king's fury is as messengers of death, but a wise man will cover it.
In the light of the face of the king is life, and his favor is like a cloud of the latter rain.
How much better to get wisdom than gold! And to get understanding is to be chosen above silver.
The way of the upright is to turn away from evil, he keeping his soul watches his way.
Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the spoil with the proud.
He who acts prudently shall find good, and he who trusts in Jehovah, Oh how happy is he!
The wise in heart shall be called prudent, and sweetness of lips increases learning.
Prudence is a fountain of life to those who own it, but the teaching of fools is folly.
The heart of the wise makes his mouth prudent, and he adds learning on his lips.
Pleasant words are an overflowing of honey, sweetness to the soul and healing to the bones.
There is a way that seems right to a man's face, but the end of it is the ways of death.
He who labors works for himself, for his mouth urges him on.
A worthless man plots evil, and on his lips it is like a burning fire.
A perverse man causes strife, and a whisperer separates close friends.
A violent man lures his neighbor, and causes him to go in a way that is not good.
He who shuts his eyes to plan perverse things, compressing his lips, he brings evil to pass.
The gray head is a crown of glory; it is found in the way of righteousness.
One slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city.
The lot is cast into the lap, but all ordering of it is from Jehovah.