Therefore be followers of God, as dear children.
And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us, and has given Himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor.
For let fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness not be once named among you, as becomes saints,
neither baseness, foolish talking, jesting, which are not becoming, but rather giving of thanks.
For you know this, that no fornicator, or unclean person, or covetous one (who is an idolater), has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience.
Therefore do not be partakers with them.
For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord; walk as children of light
(for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
proving what is acceptable to the Lord.
And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them.
For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret.
But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light, for whatever makes manifest is light.
Therefore he says, "Awake, sleeping ones! And arise from the dead, and Christ shall give you light."
See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
Therefore do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
And do not be drunk with wine, in which is excess, but be filled with the Spirit,
speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
always giving thanks for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
submitting yourselves to one another in the fear of God.
Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord.
For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church; and He is the Savior of the body.
Therefore as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for it,
that He might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word,
that He might present it to Himself as the glorious church, without spot or wrinkle or any such things, but that it should be holy and without blemish.
So men ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
For no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Lord loves the church.
For we are members of His body, of His flesh, and of His bones.
"For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two of them shall be one flesh."
This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church.
But also let everyone of you in particular so love his wife even as himself, and the wife that she defers to her husband.