But on the first of the sabbaths, while still very early, they came on the tomb, carrying spices which they prepared; and some were with them.
And they found the stone having been rolled away from the tomb.
And going in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it happened, as they were perplexed about this, even behold, two men in shining clothing stood by them.
And they becoming terrified, and bowing their faces to the earth, they said to them, Why do you seek the living with the dead?
He is not here, but was raised. Remember how He spoke to you, yet being in Galilee,
saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and to be crucified, and the third day to rise again.
And they remembered His words.
And returning from the tomb, they reported all these things to the Eleven, and to all the rest.
And they were Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary mother of James, and the rest with them, who told these things to the apostles.
And their words seemed like foolishness to them, and they did not believe them.
But rising up, Peter ran to the tomb, and stooping down he saw the linen lying alone. And he went away wondering to himself at what had happened.
And, behold, two of them were going on the same day to a village being sixty stadia distant from Jerusalem, which was named Emmaus.
And they talked to each other about all these things taking place.
And it happened, as they talked and reasoned, coming near, Jesus Himself traveled with them.
But their eyes were held so as not to recognize Him.
And He said to them, What words are these which you exchange with each other while walking, and are sad of face?
And answering, one of them whose name was Cleopas, said to Him, Are you only one who resides in Jerusalem and do not know the things happening in it in these days?
And He said to them, What things? And they said to Him, The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who was a man, a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered Him to the judgment of death, and crucified Him .
But we were hoping that He is the One going to redeem Israel. But then with all these things, this third day comes today since these things happened.
And also some of our women astounded us, having been early at the tomb,
and not finding His body, they came saying to have seen a vision of angels also, who say Him to be alive.
And some of those with us went to the tomb, and found it so , even as the women also said; but they did not see Him.
And He said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe on all things which the prophets spoke!
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into His glory?
And beginning from Moses, and from all the prophets, He explained to them the things about Himself in all the Scriptures.
And they drew near to the village where they were going, and He seemed to be going further.
And they constrained Him, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day has declined. And He went in to stay with them.
And it happened as He reclined with them, taking the loaf, He blessed, and breaking He gave to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew Him. And He became invisible from them.
And they said to one another, Was not our heart burning in us as He spoke to us in the highway, and as He opened up to us the Scriptures?
And rising up in the same hour, they went back to Jerusalem, and they found the Eleven, and those with them, having been gathered,
saying, The Lord really was raised and appeared to Simon.
And they related the things in the highway, and how He was known to them in the breaking of the loaf.
And as they were telling these things, Jesus Himself stood in their midst, and said to them, Peace to you!
But being terrified and filled with fear, they thought they saw a spirit.
And He said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do reasonings come up in your hearts.
See My hands and My feet, that I am He? Feel Me and see, because a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see Me having.
And saying this, He showed them His hands and feet.
But yet they not believing from the joy, and marveling, He said to them, Have you any food here?
And they handed a broiled part of a fish to Him, and from a honeycomb.
And taking these before them, He ate.
And He said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you yet being with you, that must be fulfilled all the things having been written in the Law of Moses, and the Prophets, and the Psalms, concerning Me.
Then He opened up their mind to understand the Scriptures,
and said to them, So it is written, and so the Christ must suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day. No OT passage
And repentance and remission of sins must be preached on His name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
And you are witnesses of these things.
And, behold, I send forth the promise of My Father on you. But you sit in the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high.
He led them out as far as to Bethany. And lifting up His hands, He blessed them.
And it happened as He blessed them, He withdrew from them and was carried into Heaven.
And worshiping Him, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.