And as He went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, it happened that they watched Him.
And behold, a certain man was dropsical before Him.
And answering, Jesus spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?
And they were silent. And taking him, He healed him and let him go.
And He answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fall into a pit and will not immediately pull him out on the sabbath day?
And they could not answer Him again as to these things.
And He put forth a parable to those who were invited, when He noted how they chose out the chief places, saying to them,
When you are invited by anyone to a wedding, do not recline in the chief seat, lest a more honorable man than you may be invited by him.
And he who invited you and him shall come and say to you, Give place to this man; and then you begin with shame to take the last place.
But when you are invited, go and recline in the lowest place, so that when he who invited you comes, he may say to you, Friend, go up higher. Then glory shall be to you before those reclining with you.
For whoever exalts himself shall be abased, and he who humbles himself shall be exalted.
And He also said to him who invited Him, When you make a dinner or a supper, do not call your friends or your brothers, or your kinsmen, or your rich neighbors; lest they also invite you again, and a recompense be made to you.
But when you make a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind,
and you shall be blessed, for they cannot repay you; for you shall be repaid at the resurrection of the just.
And one of those who reclined with Him heard these things, and he said to Him, Blessed are those eating bread in the kingdom of God.
And He said to him, A certain man made a great supper and invited many.
And he sent his servant at supper time to say to those who were invited, Come, for all things are now ready.
And all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said to him, I have bought a piece of ground, I must go and see it. I beg you, have me excused.
And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to test them. I beg you, have me excused.
And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.
And coming up that servant reported these things to his lord. And the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city and bring in here the poor and the maimed, and the lame and the blind.
And the servant said, Lord, it is done as you have commanded, and still there is room.
And the lord said to the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in, so that my house may be filled.
For I say to you that none of these men who were invited shall taste of my supper.
And great crowds went with Him. And He turned and said to them,
If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple.
And whoever does not bear his cross and come after Me, he cannot be My disciple.
For which of you, intending to build a tower, does not sit down first and count the cost, whether he may have enough to finish it;
lest perhaps, after he has laid the foundation and is not able to finish, all those seeing begin to mock him,
saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish.
Or what king, going to make war against another king, does not first sit down and consult whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?
Or else, while the other is still a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks conditions of peace.
So then, everyone of you who does not forsake all his possessions, he cannot be My disciple.
Salt is good, but if the salt has become tasteless, with what shall it be seasoned?
It is not fit for the land, nor for manure, but men throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.