And the LORD appeared to him in the plains of Mamre, and he sat at the tent door in the heat of the day.
And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo, three men stood by him. And when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed toward the ground.
And he said, My Lord, if now I have found favor in Your sight, do not pass away, I pray, from Your servant.
Let a little water, I pray, be brought, and wash Your feet, and rest under the tree.
And I will bring a bite of bread, and will comfort your hearts. After that You shall pass on. For this is why You have come to Your servant. And they said, Do so, as you have said.
And Abraham hastened into the tent to Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal; knead it, and make cakes.
And Abraham ran out to the herd and brought a calf, tender and good. And he gave it to a young man. And he hurried to dress it.
And he took butter and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them. And he stood by them under the tree, and they ate.
And they said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent.
And He said, I will certainly return to you according to the time of life, and lo, Sarah your wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard in the tent door which was behind Him.
Now Abraham and Sarah were old, far gone in days, and it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After my being old, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?
And the LORD said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I, who am old, truly bear a child?
Is anything too hard for the LORD? At the time appointed I will return again, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.
Then Sarah denied, saying, I did not laugh; for she was afraid. And He said, No, but you did laugh.
And the men rose up from there, and looked toward Sodom. And Abraham was going with them to bring them on the way.
And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham the thing which I do,
And Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the persons of the earth shall be blessed in him?
For I know him, that he will command his sons and his house after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment, that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which He has spoken of him.
And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous,
I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which has come to Me. And if not, I will know.
And the men turned their faces away from there, and went toward Sodom. But Abraham still stood before the LORD.
And Abraham drew near and said, Will You also destroy the righteous with the wicked?
Perhaps there are fifty righteous within the city. Will You also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are in it?
Far be it from You to act in this manner, to kill the righteous with the wicked. And far be it from You, that the righteous should be as the wicked. Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?
And the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.
And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak to the LORD, who am but dust and ashes.
Perhaps there will be five lacking from the fifty righteous. Will You destroy all the city for lack of five? And He said, If I find there forty-five, I will not destroy it.
And he spoke to Him yet again, and said, Perhaps there shall be forty found there. And He said, I will not do it for forty's sake.
And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak. Perhaps there shall be thirty found there. And He said, I will not do it if I find thirty there.
And he said, Lo now, I have taken upon me to speak to the LORD. Perhaps there shall be twenty found there. And He said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake.
And he said, Oh do not let the LORD be angry, and I will speak only once more. Perhaps ten shall be found there. And He said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake.
And the LORD went His way as soon as He had left off talking with Abraham. And Abraham returned to his place.