And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
And you shall say to the sons of Israel, Any man of the sons of Israel, and of the aliens who are living in Israel, who gives of his seed to Molech shall certainly be put to death; the people of the land shall stone him with stones!
And I, I shall set My face against that man, and shall cut him off from the midst of his people, for he has given of his seed to Molech, so as to defile My sanctuary, and to pollute My holy name.
And if the people of the land truly hide their eyes from that man, as he gives his seed to Molech, so as not to put him to death,
then I shall set My face against that man, and against his family, and shall cut him off, and all who go whoring after him, even going whoring after Molech from the midst of their people.
And the person who turns to those having familiar spirits, and to the spiritists, to go whoring after them, I shall set my face against that person, and cut him off from the midst of his people.
And you shall sanctify yourselves, and you shall be holy, for I am Jehovah your God;
and you shall keep My statutes and shall do them; I am Jehovah who is sanctifying you.
And any man who curses his father and his mother shall certainly be put to death; he has cursed his father and his mother; his blood shall be on him.
And a man who commits adultery with a man's wife, who commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor, the adulterer and the adulteress are surely to be put to death.
And a man who lies with his father's wife, who has uncovered the nakedness of his father, both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be on them.
And a man who lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death; they have made a shameful mixture; their blood shall be on them.
And a man who lies with a male as one lies with a woman, both of them have done a detestable thing; they shall certainly be put to death; their blood shall be on them.
And a man who takes a woman and her mother, it is wickedness; they shall burn him and them; and there shall be no wickedness in your midst.
And a man who lies with an animal shall certainly be put to death; and you shall kill the animal.
And if a woman draws near to any animal to lie with it, you shall even put to death the woman and the animal; they are surely to be put to death; their blood shall be on them.
And if a man takes his sister, the daughter of his father or daughter of his mother, and he has seen her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a shame. And they shall be cut off before the eyes of the sons of their people; he has uncovered his sister's nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
And if a man lies with a menstruous woman, and has uncovered her nakedness, he has made her fountain bare; and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood; even both of them shall be cut off from the midst of their people.
And you shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, nor of your father's sister, because he has made naked his near kin; they shall bear their iniquity.
If a man lies with his aunt, he has uncovered the nakedness of his uncle; they shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.
And if a man takes his brother's wife, it is an unclean thing; he has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
And you shall keep all My statutes, and all My judgments, and shall do them, and the land where I am bringing you to live in it shall not vomit you out.
And you shall not walk in the statutes of the nation which I am casting out from before you, for all these they have done, and I am disgusted with them.
But I have said to you, You shall surely possess their land; and, I, I am giving it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey; I am Jehovah your God, who has set you apart from the nations.
And you shall make a difference between the clean animals and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean. And you shall not defile yourself by beast or by fowl, or by anything which swarms the ground, which I have set apart to you as unclean;
and you shall be holy to Me, for I, Jehovah, am holy; and I have set you apart from the nations to become Mine.
And a man or woman, when there is among them a medium, or a familiar spirit, shall certainly be put to death; they shall stone them with stones; their blood is on them.