Wherefore, having this ministry, inasmuch as we have received mercy, we faint not;
but we have renounced the secret works of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor adulterating the word of God; but, by the manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man’s conscience in the sight of God.
But if our gospel is vailed, it is vailed among the lost,
whose unbelieving minds the god of this age has darkened, so that the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should not shine to them.
For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants, for Jesus sake.
Because God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts, to give the light of the glorious knowledge of God in the person of Jesus Christ.
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the exceeding greatness of the power may be God’s and not our own.
We are pressed on all sides, yet not restrained; perplexed, but not in despair;
persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed;
always bearing about in our body the violent death of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus may be made manifest in our body.
For we who live are continually delivered up to death for Jesus sake, that the life also of Jesus may be made manifest in our mortal flesh.
So, then, death is active in us, but life in you.
But, having the same spirit of faith, according to that which is written, I believed, and for this reason I have spoken; we also believe, and for this reason we speak,
knowing that he who raised up the Lord Jesus will raise us up also by Jesus, and present us together with you.
For all these afflictions are for your sakes, that the favor which abounds to me, may, through the thanksgiving of the many, abound richly to the glory of God.
For this reason we faint not: but though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day.
For our present light affliction works out for us an eternal fullness of glory, excelling all excellence,
while we look not at the things that are seen, but at the things that are not seen: for the things seen are temporal; but the things not seen are eternal.