For the kingdom of the heavens, is like, a man, a householder,—who went forth with the morning, to hire labourers into his vineyard;
and, when he had agreed with the labourers for a denary the day, he sent them into his vineyard.
And, going forth about the third hour, he saw others, standing in the market-place, unemployed;
and, to them, he said—ye also, go your way into the vineyard, and, whatsoever may be right, I will give you;
and, they, departed. And, again, going forth about the sixth and ninth hour, he did likewise.
And, about the eleventh, going forth, he found others, standing, and saith unto them—Why, here, stand ye, all the day, unemployed?
They say unto him—Because, no one, hath hired, us. He saith unto them—Ye also, go your way into the vineyard.
And, when evening came, the master of the vineyard saith unto his steward—Call the labourers, and pay the hire,—beginning from the last, unto the first.
And they of the eleventh hour, coming, received severally a denary.
And, when the first came, they supposed that, more, they should receive,—and, they also, received severally a denary.
And, having received it, they began to murmur against the householder, saying—
These last, one hour, wrought, and thou hast made them, equal unto us, who have borne the burden of the day, and the scorching heat.
And, he, answering, unto one of them, said,—Friend! I wrong thee not: Was it not, for a denary, thou didst agree with me?
Take thine own, and go thy way; but I please, unto this last, to give, as also to thee:
Is it not allowed me to do, what I please, with my own? or is, thine eye, evil, because I good?
Thus, shall be—The last first, and the first last.
And, Jesus, being about to go up unto Jerusalem, took unto him the twelve [disciples], apart, and, in the way, he said unto them—
Lo! we are going up unto Jerusalem; and, the Son of Man, will be delivered up unto the chief-priests and Scribes, and they will condemn him, [to death],
And deliver him up unto the nations, to mock and to scourge and to crucify,—and, on the third day, he will, arise.
Then came unto him the mother of the sons of Zebedee, with her sons, bowing down, and asking something from him.
And, he, said to her—What desirest thou? She saith unto him—Bid, that these my two sons may sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left, in thy kingdom.
But Jesus, answering, said—Ye know not what ye are asking: Are ye able to drink the cup, which, I, am about to drink; They say unto him—We are able.
He saith unto them—My cup, indeed, ye shall drink; but, to sit on my right hand and on my left, is not mine to give,—except unto those for whom it hath been prepared by my Father.
And the ten, hearing, were sorely displeased, concerning the two brethren.
But, Jesus, calling them near, said—Ye know that, the rulers of the nations, lord it over them, and, the great ones, wield authority over them:
Not so, is it, among you,—but, whosoever shall desire, among you, to become, great, shall be, your minister;
And, whosoever shall desire, among you, to be first, shall be, your servant:—
Just as, the Son of Man, came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom instead of many.
And, as they were going forth from Jericho, there followed him a great multitude;
and lo! two blind men, sitting beside the road, hearing that Jesus was passing by, cried aloud saying—Lord! have mercy on us! Son of David!
But the multitude rebuked them, that they might hold their peace. But, they, the more, cried aloud, saying—Lord, have mercy on us! Son of David!
And, standing still, Jesus called them, and said—What desire ye I should do for you?
They say unto him—Lord! that, our eyes, may open.
And, moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes,—and, straightway, they recovered sight, and followed him.