An Instruction of Asaph. O God, have You cast us off forever? Will Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture?
Remember Your congregation, which You have purchased of old, the rod of Your inheritance which You have redeemed; this mount Zion in which You have dwelt.
Lift up Your feet to the never-ending ruins, even all that the enemy has done wickedly in the sanctuary.
Your enemies roar in the midst of Your congregation; they set up their own banners for signs.
He is known as one bringing axes on high, on the thick trees.
And now all its carvings too, they break down with axes and hammers.
They have cast fire into Your sanctuary; they have defiled the dwelling-place of Your name to the ground.
They said in their hearts, Together let us rage against them; they have burned up all God's meeting-places in the land.
We did not see our signs; there is no prophet any more; neither is there among us any who knows how long.
O God, how long shall the enemy speak evil? Shall the enemy blaspheme Your name forever?
Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? Draw it out of Your bosom.
For God is my king of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth,
You divide the sea by Your strength; You break the heads of the sea-monsters in the waters.
You cracked open the heads of leviathan, and gave him to be food to the people living in the wilderness.
You divide the fountain and the flood; You dry up mighty rivers.
The day is Yours, the night also is Yours; You have prepared the light and the sun.
You have set all the borders of the earth; You have made summer and winter.
Remember this, the enemy has cursed, O LORD, and the foolish people have blasphemed Your name.
Do not deliver the soul of Your turtle dove to the multitude; forget not the congregation of Your poor forever.
Look to the covenant; for the dark places of the earth are full of the houses of evil.
Oh let not the ill-treated ones return ashamed; let the poor and needy praise Your name.
Arise, O God, plead Your own cause; remember how the foolish man curses You daily.
Forget not the voice of Your enemies; the noise of those who rise up against You keeps on increasing.