After these things, Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth.
And having found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, and Priscilla his wife, (because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome,) he came to them;
and because he was of the same trade, he abode with them, and worked; for they were tent-makers by trade.
And he discoursed in the synagogue every sabbath, and endeavored to persuade both Jews and Greeks.
And when both Silas and Timothy had come from Macedonia, Paul was wholly engaged in the word, testifying to the Jews, that Jesus was the Christ.
And when they set themselves against him, and reviled, he shook his garments, and said to them, Your blood be upon your own heads! I am clean; from this time I will go to the gentiles.
And he departed thence, and went to the house of a certain man, named Justus, a worshipper of God, whose house was very near the synagogue.
And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians upon hearing believed, and were baptized.
And the Lord said to Paul through a vision in the night, Be not afraid, but speak on, and be not silent;
for I am with thee, and no one shall lay hands on thee, to hurt thee; for I have much people in this city.
And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
And when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up with one accord against Paul, and brought him before the judgment-seat,
saying, This man persuadeth people to worship God contrary to the law.
And as Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If it were some act of injustice or wicked misdeed, O Jews, with reason I should bear with you;
but if it be questions of doctrine, and names, and your law, look to it yourselves; I will not be a judge of these matters.
And he drove them from the judgment-seat.
But they all laid hold of Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment-seat; and Gallio cared for none of these things.
And Paul, having stayed many days longer, took leave of the brethren, and sailed thence to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila, after he had shaved his head in Cenchreae, for he had a vow.
And they came to Ephesus, and he left them there; but he himself entered the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.
And when they asked him to stay longer, he consented not;
but having taken leave of them, saying, I will return to you, if God will, he set sail from Ephesus.
And having landed at Caesarea and gone up and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch.
And after he had spent some time there, he departed, going through the Galatian country and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
And a certain Jew, named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the Scriptures, came to Ephesus.
This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught correctly the things concerning Jesus, knowing only the baptism of John.
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. But Aquila and Priscilla having heard him, took him to them, and set forth to him the way [of the Lord] more fully.
And when he wished to go over into Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to give him welcome; and when he was come, he gave much aid to those who had believed through grace.
For he publicly confuted the Jews, with power, showing by the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ.