There was however, a man from among the Pharisees, Nicodemus, his name,—ruler of the Jews.
The same, came unto him, by night, and said unto him—Rabbi! we know that, from God, thou hast come, a teacher; for, no one, can be doing, these signs, which, thou, art doing, except, God, be with him.
Jesus answered, and said unto him—Verily, verily, I say unto thee: Except one be born from above, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus saith unto him—How, can a man be born, when he is, old? Can he, into the womb of his mother, a second time, enter, and be born?
Jesus answered—Verily, verily, I say unto thee: Except one be born of water and spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
That which hath been born of the flesh, is, flesh, and, that which hath been born of the spirit, is, spirit.
Do not marvel, that I said unto thee: Ye must needs be born from above.
The spirit, where it pleaseth, doth breathe, and, the sound thereof, thou hearest; but knowest not, whence it cometh and whither it goeth: Thus, is every one who hath been born of the spirit.
Nicodemus answered, and said unto him—How, can these things, come about?
Jesus answered, and said unto him—Art, thou, the teacher of Israel, and, these things, knowest not?
Verily, verily, I say unto thee: What we know, we speak, and, of what we have seen, we bear witness, and, our witness, ye receive not.
If, the earthly things, I told you, and ye believe not, How, if I should tell you the heavenly things, will ye believe?
And, no one, hath ascended into heaven, save he that, out of heaven, descended,—The Son of Man.
And, just as, Moses, lifted up the serpent in the desert, so, must, the Son of Man, be lifted up,—
That, whosoever believeth in him, may have life age-abiding.
For God, so loved, the world, that, his Only Begotten Son, he gave,—that, whosoever believeth on him, might not perish, but have life age-abiding.
For God, sent not, his Son into the world, that he might judge the world, but, that the world might be saved through him.
He that believeth on him, is not to be judged: he that believeth not, already, hath been judged,—because he hath not believed on the name of the Only Begotten Son of God.
And, this, is the judgment: That, the light, hath come into the world,—and men loved, rather the darkness than the light, for, wicked, were their, works.
For, whosoever doth practise corrupt things, hateth the light, and cometh not unto the light, lest his works should be reproved;
But, he that doeth the truth, cometh unto the light, that his works may be, made manifest, that, in God, have they been wrought.
After these things, came Jesus, and his disciples, into the Judaean land; and, there, was he tarrying with them, and immersing.
And John also was immersing in Aenon, near to him, because, many waters, were there; and they were coming, and being immersed;—
for, not yet, had John been cast into prison.
There arose, therefore, a questioning, from among the disciples of John, with a Jew,—concerning purification.
And they came unto John, and said unto him—Rabbi! he who was with thee beyond the Jordan, unto whom, thou, hast borne witness, see! the same, is immersing; and, all, are coming unto him.
John answered, and said—A man can receive, nothing, except it have been given him out of heaven.
Ye yourselves, unto me, bear witness, that, I, said—I, am not the Christ; but—I am sent before, That One.
He that hath the bride, is, bridegroom; but, the friend of the bridegroom, who standeth by and hearkeneth unto him, greatly, rejoiceth, by reason of the voice of the bridegroom. This, my joy, therefore, is fulfilled.
That One, it behoveth to increase,—but, me, to decrease.
He that, from above, doth come, over all, is: he that is of the earth, of the earth, is, and, of the earth, doth speak: he that, out of heaven, doth come, over all, is,
What he hath seen and heard, of, the same, he beareth witness,—and, his witness, no one, receiveth:—
He that hath received his witness, hath set seal—that, God, is, true.
For, he whom God hath sent, the sayings of God, doth speak; for, not by measure, giveth he the Spirit.
The Father, loveth the Son, and, all things, hath given into his hand.
He that believeth on the Son, hath life age-abiding: whereas, he that yieldeth not unto the Son, shall not see life,—but, the anger of God, awaiteth him.