And when the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one consent in one place.
And suddenly there came from heaven a sound as of a rushing, violent wind, and it filled the whole house in which they were sitting.
And there appeared to them tongues like fire, which distributed themselves, and sat one on each of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem devout Jews, from every nation under heaven.
When the report of this had gone abroad, the multitude came together; and they were perplexed, for each one heard them speak in his own language.
They were amazed and astonished, and said one to another: Are not all these that are speaking, Galileans?
And how is it that we hear, every one in our own language in which we were born―
Parthians and Modes and Elamites, and we who dwell in Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya about Cyrene, Roman residents, Jews and proselytes,
Cretes and Arabians―we hear them speaking, in our own tongues, the wonderful works of God?
And they were all in amazement and doubt, and said, one to another: What can this mean?
But others deriding, said: They are full of new wine.
But Peter standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and said to them: Men of Judea, and all you that dwell in Jerusalem, be this known to you, and give ear to my words.
For these men are not drunk, as you suppose: for it is the third hour of the day.
But this is that which was spoken of by the prophet Joel:
And it shall come to pass in the last days, says God, that I will pour out of my Spirit on all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams.
And also on my servants and on my handmaids, I will pour out of my Spirit in those days, and they shall prophesy.
And I will show wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath, blood and fire and columns of smoke.
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great and terrible day of the Lord comes.
And it shall come to pass, that whoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene, clearly pointed out to you as a man from God, by mighty deeds and wonders and signs, which God did by him in your midst, as you yourselves also know,
him, delivered up by the fixed purpose and foreknowledge of God, you took, and with wicked hands did crucify and slay:
whom God raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible for him to be held in subjection by it.
For David speaks with reference to him: I saw the Lord always in my presence: for he is at my right hand, that I should not be moved.
Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue sang praise. Moreover, my flesh shall rest in hope;
because thou wilt not leave my soul in hades, nor suffer thy Holy One to see corruption.
Thou didst make known to me the ways of life; thou wilt make me full of joy with thy countenance.
Brethren, I may say to you plainly of the patriarch David, that he died, and was buried, and his sepulcher is with us to this day.
Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn to him with an oath, that he would cause one from the fruit of his loins to sit on his throne;
foreseeing this, he spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that his soul was not left in hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.
This Jesus has God raised up, of which we all are witnesses.
Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from his Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this, which you now see and hear.
For David has not ascended into the heavens; but he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
till I make thy enemies thy footstool.
Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God has made this same Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ.
When they heard this, they were pierced to the heart, and said to Peter and the other apostles: Brethren, what shall we do?
And Peter said to them: Repent, and be immersed, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, in order to the remission of sins; and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
For the promise is to you, and your children, and to all that are afar off, as many as the Lord our God shall call.
And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying: Save yourselves from this wicked generation.
Then they that gladly received his word were immersed, and on that day there were added to them about three thousand souls.
And they attended constantly to the teaching of the apostles, and the fellowship, and the breaking of bread, and the prayers.
And fear came on every soul; and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles.
And all that believed were together, and had all things in common;
and they sold their possessions and goods, and distributed them to all, as each had need.
And with one consent, they continued daily in the temple; and, breaking bread from house to house, they partook of their food with gladness and simplicity of heart,
praising God, and being in favor with all the people. And the Lord added the saved daily to the Church.