And Yahweh spake unto Moses and unto Aaron saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and ye shall say unto them,—When, any man whatsoever, hath a flowing from his flesh, his flux, is, unclean.
And, this shall be his uncleanness in his flux,—whether his flesh is running with his flux or his flesh hath closed from his flux, his uncleanness, it is.
All the bed whereon he that hath the flux lieth, shall be unclean,—and, every piece of furniture whereon he sitteth, shall be unclean.
And whosoever toucheth his bed shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
And, he that sitteth on that whereon he that hath the flux hath sat, shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And, he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the flux, shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening,
And, when he that hath a flux spitteth on him that is clean, then shall he wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening.
And, every saddle whereon he that hath the flux rideth, shall be unclean.
And, whosoever toucheth anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening; and, he that carrieth them shall wash his clothes and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And, whomsoever he that hath the flux toucheth, not having rinsed, his hands in water, then shall he wash his clothes, and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening,
And the earthen vessel which he that hath the flux toucheth shall be broken in pieces,—and, every vessel of wood, shall be rinsed in water.
And when he that hath the flux becometh clean from his flux, then shall he number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes,—and bathe his flesh in living water, and be clean.
And, on the eighth day, he shall take for himself two turtle doves or two young pigeons,—and come in before Yahweh, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting, and give them to the priest;
and the priest shall offer them, one as a sin-bearer and the other as an ascending-sacrifice,—so shall the priest put a propitiatory-covering over him, before Yahweh, because of his flux.
And, when there goeth out from, any man, an outflow of seed, then shall he bathe all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And, in the case of any garment or any skin whereupon there shall come to be an outflow of seed, then shall it be washed in water, and be unclean until the evening.
Also, a woman with whom man lieth carnally, then shall they bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And, when a, woman, hath a flow, and her flow in her flesh is, blood, seven days, shall she continue in her removal, and whosoever toucheth her, shall be unclean until the evening;
and, whatsoever she lieth upon in her removal, shall be unclean,—and, whatsoever she sitteth upon, shall be unclean;
and whosoever toucheth her bed, shall wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until the evening;
and, whosoever toucheth any thing whereon she sitteth shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening;
and, whether, on her bed, it is, or on any thing whereon she hath been sitting, when he toucheth it, he shall be unclean until the evening;
and if man shall even lie with her, and her cause for removal be upon him, then shall he be unclean seven days,—and, all the bed whereon he shall lie, shall be unclean.
And when any woman’s, flow of blood lasteth many day, outside the time of her removal, or when it floweth beyond her removal, all the days of her unclean flow, shall she be as in the days of her removal—unclean, she is.
All the bed whereon she lieth during all the days of her flow, like her bed in her removal, shall be to her,—and, every thing whereon she sitteth, shall be, unclean, like the uncleanness in her removal;
and whosoever toucheth them, shall be unclean,—and shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening.
But, if she be clean from her flow, then shall she count to herself seven days and afterwards, shall she count herself clean.
And, on the eighth day, shall she take to herself two turtle doves, or two young pigeons,—and bring them in unto the priest, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting;
and the priest shall offer the one as a sin-bearer, and the other as an ascending-sacrifice,—so shall the priest put a propitiatory-covering over her, before Yahweh, because of her unclean flow.
Thus shall ye warn the sons of Israel from their uncleanness, And they shall not die in their uncleanness, By reason of their making unclean my habitation which is in their midst.
This, is the law—Of him that hath a flux,—And of him from whom goeth an outflow of seed, making unclean thereby;
And of her that is unwell with her cause for removal, And of him whose flux floweth, For the male, and for the female,—And for a man who lieth with her that is unclean.