Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me to the east gate of Jehovah's house, which looks eastward. And, behold, at the door of the gate twenty-five men. And I saw in the midst of them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, rulers of the people.
And he said to me, Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity, and who give wicked counsel in this city,
who say, The time is not near to build houses. This city is the caldron, and we are the flesh.
Therefore prophesy against them. Prophesy, O son of man.
And the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon me, and he said to me, Speak, Thus says Jehovah: Thus ye have said, O house of Israel, for I know the things that come into your mind.
Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain.
Therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Your slain whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the caldron, but ye shall be brought forth out of the midst of it.
Ye have feared the sword, and I will bring the sword upon you, says the lord Jehovah.
And I will bring you forth out of the midst of it, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you.
Ye shall fall by the sword. I will judge you in the border of Israel, and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
This city shall not be your caldron, nor shall ye be the flesh in the midst thereof. I will judge you in the border of Israel,
and ye shall know that I am Jehovah. For ye have not walked in my statutes, nor have ye executed my ordinances, but have done according to the ordinances of the nations that are round about you.
And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah lord Jehovah! Will thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel?
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, thy brothers, even thy brothers, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel, all of them, are those to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from Jehovah. This land is given to us for a possession.
Therefore say, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet I will be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they have come.
Therefore say, Thus says the lord Jehovah. I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.
And they shall come there, and they shall take away from there all the detestable things of it and all the abominations of it.
And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. And I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh,
that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
But as for those whose heart walks according to the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their way upon their own heads, says the lord Jehovah.
Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels were beside them, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
And the glory of Jehovah went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city.
And the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to those of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me.
Then I spoke to those of the captivity all the things that Jehovah had shown me.