A workman that is a drunkard shall not become rich:
He that despises small things shall fall by little and little.

Wine and women will make men of understanding to fall away:
And he that cleaves to harlots will be the more reckless.

Moths and worms shall have him to heritage;
And a reckless soul shall be taken away.

He that is hasty to trust is light-minded;
And he that sins shall offend against his own soul.

He that makes merry in his heart shall be condemned:

And he that hates talk has the less wickedness.

Never repeat what is told you,
And you shall fare never the worse.

Whether it be of friend or foe, tell it not;
And unless it is a sin to you, reveal it not.

For he has heard you, and observed you,
And when the time comes he will hate you.

Hast you heard a word? let it die with you:
Be of good courage, it will not burst you.

A fool will travail in pain with a word,
As a woman in labor with a child.

As an arrow that sticks in the  flesh of the thigh,
So is a word in a fool’s belly.

Reprove a friend; it may be he did it not:
And if he did something, that he may do it no more.

Reprove your neighbor; it may be he said it not:
And if he has said it, that he may not say it again.

Reprove a friend; for many times there is slander:
And trust not every word.

There is one that slips, and not from the heart:
And who is he that has not sinned with his tongue?

Reprove your neighbor before you threaten him;
And give place to the law of the Most High.


All wisdom is the fear of the Lord;
And in all wisdom is the doing of the law.


And the knowledge of wickedness is not wisdom;
And the prudence of sinners is not counsel.

There is a wickedness, and the same is abomination;
And there is a fool lacking in wisdom.

Better is one that has small understanding, and fears,
Than one that has much prudence, and transgresses the law.

There is an exquisite subtilty, and the same is unjust;
And there is one that perverteth favor  to gain a judgement.

There is one that does wickedly, that hangs down his head with mourning;
But inwardly he is full of deceit,

Bowing down his face, and making as if he were deaf of one ear:
Where he is not known, he will be beforehand with you.

And if for lack of power he be hindered from sinning,
If he find opportunity, he will do mischief.

A man shall be known by his look,
And one that has understanding shall be known by his face, when you meet him.

A man’s attire, and  grinning laughter,
And gait, show what he is.
