And, calling together the twelve, he gave them power and authority over all the demons, and to be curing, diseases;
and sent them forth, to be proclaiming the kingdom of God, and to be healing;
and said unto them—Nothing, take ye for the journey,—neither staff, nor satchel, nor bread, nor silver, nor to have, two tunics.
And, into whatsoever house ye enter, there, abide, and, thence, be going forth.
And, as many soever as shall not welcome you, in going forth from that city, the dust of your feet, shake ye off, for a witness against them.
And they went forth, and were passing through, along the villages,—delivering the glad-message, and effecting cures in every direction.
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all the things which were coming to pass, and was utterly at a loss, because of its being said, by some, that, John, had been raised from the dead;
and, by some, that, Elijah, had appeared; and, by others, that, some prophet of the ancients, had arisen.
But Herod said—John, I myself, beheaded; but, who is this, concerning whom I am hearing such things as these? And he was seeking to see him.
And the Apostles, returning, related to him what great things they had done. And, taking them aside, he retired privately, into a city called Bethsaida.
But, the multitudes, getting to know, followed him; and, giving them welcome, he began speaking unto them concerning the kingdom of God,—and, them that had need of cure, he healed,
And, the day, began to decline; and the twelve, coming near, said to him—Dismiss the multitude, that, going into the surrounding villages and hamlets, they may lodge, and find provisions; because, here, in a desert place, are we.
But he said unto them—Give, ye, them to eat. They, however, said—We have not more than five loaves, and two fishes,—unless perhaps, we, should go, and buy food, for all this people.
For there were about five thousand men. And he said unto his disciples—Make them recline, in companies of about fifty each.
And they did so,—and made, one and all, recline.
And, taking the five loaves, and the two fishes, looking up into heaven, he blessed them, and brake [them] up, and went on giving to the disciples, to set before the multitude;
and they did all eat and were filled. And that which remained over to them, was taken up,—of broken pieces, twelve baskets.
And, it came to pass, when he was praying in solitude, the disciples, were with him. And he questioned them, saying—Who do the multitudes say that I am?
And they, answering, said John the Immerser; But some, Elijah, and others, that, some prophet of the ancients, hath arisen.
And he said to them—But who say, ye, that I am? And, Peter, answering, said—The Christ of God!
He, however, sternly admonishing them, gave charge that, unto no one, should they be telling this;
saying—The Son of Man must needs suffer, many things, and be rejected by the Elders and High priests and Scribes, and be slain,—and, on the third day, arise.
And he was saying, unto all—If any one intendeth after me to come, Let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily,—and be following me.
For, whosoever intendeth, his life, to save, shall lose it; but, whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, the same, shall save it?
For what doth a man profit, who hath gained the whole world, but hath lost, or been made to forfeit, himself?
For, whosoever shall be ashamed of me, and of my words, of him, the Son of Man, will be ashamed, whensoever he shall come in his glory, and that of the Father, and of the holy messengers.
But I tell you of a truth—There, are, some of those, here, standing, who shall in nowise taste of death, until they see the kingdom of God.
And it came to pass, after these words, about eight days, taking with him Peter and John and James, he went up into the mountain to pray.
And it came to pass, while he was praying, that, the appearance of his face, was changed, and, his clothing, became white, effulgent.
And lo! two men, were conversing with him, who, indeed, were Moses and Elijah,—
who, appearing in glory, were speaking as to his departure, which he was about to fulfil in Jerusalem.
Now, Peter, and they who were with him, had become heavy with sleep; but, waking up, they saw his glory, and the two men who were standing with him.
And it came to pass, when they were being parted from him, Peter said unto Jesus—Master! it is, delightful, for us to be, here: Let us, therefore, make three tents, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah:—not knowing what he said.
Now, while he was saying these things, there came a cloud, and it began to overshadow them,—and they were overcome with fear as they entered into the cloud.
And, a voice, came out of the cloud, saying—This, is my Son, the Chosen One: Unto him, be hearkening.
And, when the voice came, there was found, Jesus alone. And they held their peace, and, unto no one, reported they, in those days, any of the things which they had seen.
And it came to pass, on the next day, when they came down from the mountain, that there met him a great multitude.
And lo! a man from the multitude, uttered a cry, saying—Teacher! I beg of thee, to look upon my son, because, my only begotten, he is.
And lo! a spirit, taketh him, and, suddenly, he crieth out,—and it convulseth him—with foaming, and with difficulty departeth from him, sorely bruising him.
And I begged of thy disciples, that they would cast it out, and they could not.
And, making answer, Jesus said—O faithless and perverted generation! how long shall I be with you, and bear with you? Bring, hither, thy son.
And, while yet he was coming, the demon tare him, and mangled him. But Jesus rebuked the impure spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father.
And they were all being struck with astonishment, at the majesty of God. And, while all were marvelling at all things which he was doing, he said unto his disciples:
Lay, ye, up in your ears, these words; for, the Son of Man, is about to be delivered up, into the hands of men.
But, they, understood not this saying, and it had become veiled from them, that they might not grasp it,—and they were afraid to question him, concerning this saying.
But there entered a reasoning among them, as to who of them should be greatest.
And, Jesus, perceiving the reasoning of their heart, taking a child, placed it near himself,—
and said unto them—Whosoever shall give welcome unto this child, on my name, unto me, giveth welcome; and, whosoever, unto me, giveth welcome, giveth welcome unto him that sent me forth. For, he who is least among you all, the same, is, great.
But John, answering, said—Master! we saw some one, in thy name, casting out demons,—and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us.
And Jesus said unto him—Do not forbid; for, whosoever is not against you, is, for you.
And it came to pass, when the days for taking him up were on the point of being fulfilled, even he himself, set, his face, to be journeying unto Jerusalem;
and he sent messengers before his face,—and, taking their journey, they entered into a village of Samaritans, so as to prepare for him.
And they welcomed him not, because, his face, was for journeying unto Jerusalem.
And the disciples James and John, seeing it, said—Lord! wilt thou, that we bid fire come down from heaven, and destroy them?
But, turning, he rebuked them.
And they journeyed into a different village.
And, as they were journeying on the road, one said unto him—I will follow thee, whithersoever thou shalt depart.
And Jesus said unto him—the foxes, have, dens, and, the birds of heaven, nests; but, the Son of Man, hath not where, his head, he may recline.
And he said unto another—Be following me! But, he, said—Suffer me, first, to depart, and bury my father.
And he said unto him—Leave, the dead, to bury their own dead; but, thou, departing, be declaring the kingdom of God.
And, yet another, said—I will follow thee, Lord; But, first, suffer me to bid adieu to them that are in my house.
But Jesus said [unto him] —No one, laying the hand on a plough and looking unto the things behind, is, fit, for the kingdom of God.