And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face against Gog, the land of Magog, the chief ruler of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him.
And say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the chief ruler of Rosh, Meshech and Tubal.
And I will turn you back, and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you out, and all your army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed most perfectly, a great assembly with buckler and shield, all of them swordsmen;
Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
Gomer and all his bands; the house of Togarmah from the recesses of the north, and all his bands; and many peoples with you.
Be prepared; yea, prepare for yourself, you and all your assembly that are assembled to you, and be a guard to them.
After many days you will be visited. In the latter years you shall come into the land turned back from the sword, gathered out of many peoples, on the mountains of Israel, which have always been waste. (But he has been brought out of the peoples, and they shall dwell securely, all of them.)
And you shall go up, coming like a storm. You shall be like a cloud to cover the land, you and all your bands, and many peoples with you.
So says the Lord Jehovah: And it shall be in that day that things shall come into your heart, and you shall devise an evil plan.
And you shall say, I will go up to the land of open spaces. I will go to those at rest, who dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and there are no bars nor gates to them,
in order to take a spoil, and to steal a prize; to turn your hand on the inhabited waste places, and on the people gathered out of the nations, who have gotten cattle and goods, who dwell in the midst of the land.
Sheba and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all their young lions, shall say to you, Have you come to take a spoil? Have you gathered your company to steal a prize, to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take a great spoil?
So, son of man, prophesy and say to Gog, So says the Lord Jehovah: In that day when My people of Israel dwells securely, shall you not know it?
And you shall come from your place out of the recesses of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great company and a mighty army.
And you shall come up on My people Israel like a cloud, to cover the land. It shall be in the last days, and I will bring you against My land, so that the nations may know Me when I shall be sanctified in you, O Gog, before their eyes.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Are you he of whom I have spoken in former days, by the hand of My servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days and years that I would bring you against them?
And it shall be on that day, when Gog comes against the land of Israel, says the Lord Jehovah, My fury shall come up in My face.
For in My jealousy and in the fire of My wrath I have spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a great quaking in the land of Israel,
so that the fish of the sea, and the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep on the earth, and all the men on the face of the earth, shall quake at My presence. And the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.
And I will call for a sword against him on all My mountains, says the Lord Jehovah. Each man's sword shall be against his brother.
And I will judge him with a plague and with blood. And I will rain on him, and on his bands, and on the many peoples with him, an overflowing shower, and great hailstones, fire and brimstone.
So I will magnify Myself and sanctify Myself. And I will be known in the eyes of many nations, and they shall know that I am the LORD.