Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, through the will of God, and Timothy the brother,—unto the assembly of God which is in Corinth, together with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia:
Favour unto you, and peace, from God [our] Father, and Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed, be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassions, and God of all encouragement,
Who encourageth us in all our tribulation, to the end we may be able to encourage them who are in any tribulation—through means of the encouragement wherewith we, ourselves, are encouraged by God.
Because, even as the sufferings of the Christ overflow unto us, so, through the Christ, overfloweth, our encouragement also.
But, whether we are in tribulation, it is for your encouragement and salvation; whether we are encouraged, it is for your encouragement, which worketh inwardly by the endurance of the same sufferings which, we also, suffer;—
And so, our hope, is sure in your behalf,—knowing that,—as ye are sharers of the sufferings, so, also of the encouragement.
For we do not wish you to be ignorant, brethren, as to our tribulation which happened in Asia,—that, exceedingly, beyond power, were we weighed down, so that we despaired, even of life.
But, we ourselves, within ourselves, have had the sentence of death, that we might not rest our confidence upon ourselves, but upon God, who raiseth the dead,
Who, out of so great a death, rescued us, and will rescue,—unto whom we have turned our hope, [that], even yet, he will rescue:
Ye also labouring together on our behalf, by your supplication, that, unto many persons, being due the gift of favour, unto us, through means of many, might thanks be given in our behalf.
For, our boasting, is, this,—the witness of our conscience, that, in sanctity and sincerity of God, [and] not in fleshly wisdom, but in God’s favour, have we behaved ourselves in the world,—and more abundantly towards you.
For, no other things, are we writing unto you, than what ye are either reading or even acknowledging,—I hope, moreover, that, throughout, ye will acknowledge,
According as ye have also acknowledged us, in part,—that, your theme of boasting, we are, even indeed as, ye, also [shall be], ours, in the day of our Lord Jesus.
And, in this confidence, I purposed, before, to come unto you,—in order that, a second joy, ye might have,—
And, by your means, to pass into Macedonia, and, again, from Macedonia, to come unto you, and, by you, be set forward unto Judea:—
This, then, being my purpose, perhaps, after all, with lightness, I dealt [with the matter] ? or, the things that I purpose, according to the flesh, I purpose,—that, with me, should be the Yea, yea, and the Nay, nay?
Faithful, however, is God, in that, our discourse, which was [delivered] unto you, is not Yea and Nay;
For, the Son of God, Christ Jesus—who, among you, through us, was proclaimed,—through me, and Silvanus, and Timothy, became not Yea and Nay,—but Yea, in him, hath it become;
For, how many soever be the promises of God, in him, is the Yea,—wherefore also, through him, [be] the Amen, unto God, for glory, through us.
Now, he that confirmeth us, together with you, for Christ, and hath anointed us, is God:
Who also hath sealed us, and given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
But, I, call upon God, as a witness, against my own soul,—that, to spare you, not yet, have I come unto Corinth:
Not that we have lordship over your faith, but are, helpers, of your joy, for, by your faith, ye stand.