And at that time Herod the king threw on the hands to oppress some of those of the church.
And with a sword he did away with James the brother of John.
And seeing that it was pleasing to the Jews, he added also to seize Peter, (and they were the days of Unleavened Bread )
whom also capturing him , he put him into prison, delivering him to four sets of four soldiers to guard him, intending to bring him up to the people after the Passover.
Then Peter was indeed kept in the prison, but fervent prayer was made by the church to God on his behalf.
But when Herod was about to bring him out, in that night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, being bound with two chains, also guards were keeping the prison before the door.
And, behold! An angel of the Lord stood by, and a light shone in the building. And striking Peter's side, he raised him up, saying, Rise up in haste! And the chains fell off from his hands.
And the angel said to him, Gird yourself, and bind on your sandals. And he did so. And he said to him, Throw around your garment and follow me.
And going out, he followed him, and did not know that this happening through the angel was real, but he thought he saw a vision.
And going through a first and a second guard, they came on the iron gate leading into the city, which opened to them of itself. And going out, they went on one street; and instantly the angel withdrew from him.
And having come, Peter said within himself, Now I know truly that the Lord sent out His angel and plucked me out of Herod's hand, and out of all the expectation of the people of the Jews.
And considering, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, the one being surnamed Mark, where many were gathered together, and praying.
And Peter was knocking at the door of the porch, and a servant girl named Rhoda came near to listen.
And recognizing Peter's voice, from joy she did not open the porch, but running in she reported Peter was standing before the porch.
But they said to her, You are raving. But she insisted, holding it to be so. And they said, It is his angel.
But Peter kept on knocking. And opening, they saw him and were amazed.
And signaling to them with the hand to be silent, he told them how the Lord led him out of the prison. And he said, Report these things to James and the brothers. And going out, he went to another place.
And day having come, there was not a little disturbance among the soldiers, saying , What, then, became of Peter?
And searching for him, and not finding him , examining the guards, Herod commanded them to be led away. And going down from Judea to Caesarea, he stayed.
And Herod was in bitter hostility with the Tyrians and Sidonians. But with one passion they came to him. And persuading Blastus, the one over the king's bedroom, they begged peace, because their country was fed from the royal bounty .
And on a set day, having been clothed in a regal garment, and sitting on the tribunal, Herod made a speech to them.
And the mass of people cried out, The voice of a god, and not of a man!
And instantly an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give the glory to God. And having been eaten by worms, his soul went out.
But the Word of God grew and increased.
And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, having fulfilled the service, and having taken with them the one surnamed Mark.