And I looked, and lo, the Lamb standing on the mount Zion, and with it a number, a hundred and forty-four thousand, having its name and the name of his Father, written on their foreheads.
And I heard a sound from heaven as a sound of many waters, and as a sound of great thunder. And the voice that I heard was as of harpers harping with their harps.
And they sing a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures and the elders. And none could learn the song except the hundred and forty-four thousand, those who have been redeemed from the earth.
These are men who were not defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are those who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These were purchased by Jesus, out of men, a first fruit to God and to the Lamb.
And no lie was found in their mouth, for they are unblemished.
And I saw an agent flying in mid-heaven having eternal good news to proclaim to those who sit on the earth, and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people,
saying in a great voice, Fear God, and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. And worship him who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and springs of waters.
And another, a second agent, followed, saying, Babylon the great has fallen, has fallen. She has given all the nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
And another agent, a third, followed them, saying in a great voice, If any man worships the beast and its image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
he also himself will drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which was mixed undiluted in the cup of his anger. And he will be tormented with fire and brimstone before the holy agents and before the Lamb.
And the smoke of their torment ascends into the ages of ages. And they have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast and its image, and if any man receives the mark of its name.
Here is the perseverance of the sanctified. Here are those who keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, says the Spirit, so that they may rest from their toils, and their works follow with them.
And I looked, and behold, a white cloud. And sitting upon the cloud, like a son of man, having a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand.
And another agent came out from the temple, crying out in a great voice to him who sits on the cloud, Send forth thy sickle and reap, because the hour has come to reap, because the harvest of the earth is ripe.
And he who sits on the cloud cast his sickle upon the earth, and the earth was reaped.
And another agent came out from the temple in heaven, also himself having a sharp sickle.
And another agent came out from the altar having power over the fire. And he cried out in a great shout to him who has the sharp sickle, saying, Send forth thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the grapevine of the earth, because its grapes are fully ripe.
And the agent sent his sickle to the earth, and gathered the vintage of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
And the winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood came out from the winepress, up to the bridles of the horses, as far as a thousand and six hundred furlongs.