And Samuel said unto Saul, It was, me, Yahweh sent to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel,—now, therefore, hearken thou to the voice of Yahweh’s words.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, I have well considered what Amalek did unto Israel—how he lay in wait for him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
Now, go and smite Amalek, and devote ye to destruction all that he hath, and spare him not,—but thou shalt slay both man and woman, both child and suckling, both ox and sheep, both camel and ass.
So then Saul called together the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen,—and ten thousand men of Judah.
And Saul came as far as the city of Amalek,—and stirred up strife in the ravine.
Then said Saul unto the Kenites—Go, depart, get you down out of the midst of the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them, yet, ye, dealt in lovingkindness, with all the sons of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed out of the midst of the Amalekites.
And Saul smote Amalek,—from Havilah, till thou enterest Shur, which is over against Egypt.
And he took Agag, king of Amalek, alive,—but, all the people, devoted he to destruction at the edge of the sword.
But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep and the oxen and the lambs, also the fatlings, and all that was good, and would not devote them to destruction,—but, all the cattle that was contemptible and diseased, that, devoted they to destruction.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto Samuel, saying—
I am grieved that I made Saul to be king, for he hath turned back from following me, and, my words, hath he not established. And it was vexing to Samuel, so that he made outcry unto Yahweh, all the night.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul, in the morning, and it was told Samuel, saying—Saul having come to Carmel, and lo! having set him up a sign, hath gone round, and passed over, and descended to Gilgal.
And Samuel came unto Saul,—and Saul said unto him—Blessed, be thou by Yahweh: I have established the word of Yahweh.
And Samuel said, What then is this bleating of sheep, in mine ears,—and the lowing of oxen, which I can hear?
Then said Saul—From the Amalekites, have they brought them in; in that the people spared the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Yahweh thy God,—but, the rest, have we devoted to destruction.
Then said Samuel unto Saul, Stay, and let me tell thee, that which Yahweh hath spoken unto me, this night. And he said to him—Speak.
And Samuel said, Was it not, when, little, thou wast in thine own eyes, that thou wast made, head of the tribes of Israel,—and that Yahweh anointed thee to be king over Israel?
So then Yahweh sent thee on a journey,—and said—Go, and devastate to destruction, the sinners—the Amalekites, and make war against them, until they have consumed them.
Wherefore, then, didst thou not hearken unto the voice of Yahweh,—but didst rush upon the spoil, and do that which was wrong in the sight of Yahweh?
And Saul said unto Samuel—As indeed I have hearkened unto the voice of Yahweh, and have been on the journey on which Yahweh sent me,—and have brought in Agag, king of Amalek, and, the Amalekites, have I devoted to destruction.
And the people took, of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things so devoted,—to sacrifice unto Yahweh thy God, in Gilgal.
Then said Samuel—Doth that which is pleasing unto Yahweh consist in ascending-offerings and sacrifices, So much as in hearkening unto the voice of Yahweh? Lo! to hearken, is, better, than, sacrifice. And, to give heed, than, the fat of rams;
For, as the sin of divination, is, rebelliousness,—and, as transgression with household gods, is, stubbornness,—Because thou hast rejected the word of Yahweh, therefore hath he rejected thee from being king.
Then said Saul unto Samuel—I have sinned; for I have transgressed the bidding of Yahweh, and thy words,—for I feared the people, and hearkened unto their voice.
Now, therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin,—and turn again with me, that I may bow down unto Yahweh.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not turn again with thee,—Because thou hast rejected the word of Yahweh, therefore hath Yahweh rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And, when Samuel turned about to go away, then laid he hold of the skirt of his robe, and it was rent.
And Samuel said unto him, Yahweh hath rent the kingdom of Israel from off thee, to-day,—and will give it unto a neighbour of thine, who is better than thou.
Moreover also, the Eminence of Israel, will not lie, neither will he repent,—For no, iron of earth, is, he, to repent!
Then he said: I have sinned, Now, honour me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel,—and turn again with me, then will I bow down unto Yahweh thy God.
So then Samuel turned again, after Saul—and Saul bowed down unto Yahweh.
Then said Samuel—Bring ye near unto me—Agag, king of Amalek, And Agag came unto him, in fetters. Then said Agag, Surely, terrible, is the bitterness of death!
And Samuel said, As women have been made childless by thy sword, So, childless among women, shall be, thine own mother. And Samuel cut Agag asunder before Yahweh, in Gilgal.
Then Samuel departed unto Ramah,—but, Saul, went up unto his own house, at Gibeah of Saul.
And Samuel did no more see Saul, until the day of his death, for Samuel pined for Saul,—but, Yahweh, was grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.