Then having these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilements of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Make room for us. We wronged no one, we corrupted no one, we overreached no one.
I do not speak this to condemn you, for I have said before that you are in our hearts for us to die together, and to live together.
My boldness of speech is great toward you; my glorying on your behalf is much. I have been filled with comfort, I am overflowing with joy on all our trouble.
For, indeed, coming into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but being troubled in every way, with fightings on the outside, and fears on the inside.
But He who comforts the lowly comforted us by the coming of Titus.
And not only by his coming, but by the comfort with which he was comforted over you, telling us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me; so that I rejoiced the more.
For even if I grieved you in the letter, I do not regret; if indeed I did regret; for I see that that letter grieved you for an hour.
Now I rejoice, not that you were grieved, but that you grieved to repentance. For you were grieved according to God, so that you might suffer loss by nothing in us.
For the grief according to God works repentance to salvation, not to be regretted, but the grief of the world works out death.
For behold this same thing (you being grieved according to God); how much it worked out earnestness in you; but also defense; but also indignation; but also fear; but also desire; but also zeal; but also vengeance! In everything you approved yourselves to be clear in the matter.
Then, though I wrote to you, it was not on account of the one who did wrong, nor on account of the one who suffered wrong, but for the sake of revealing our earnestness on your behalf, for you before God.
Therefore we have been comforted in your comfort, and we rather rejoiced more abundantly over the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all.
For if I have boasted anything about you to him, I was not ashamed. But as we spoke all things to you in truth, even so our boasting as to Titus became truth.
And his tender feelings are more abundant toward you, remembering the obedience of you all, as you received him with fear and trembling.
Therefore I rejoice that I have confidence in you in everything.