But Saul, still breathing threat and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, after going to the high priest,
he requested letters from him for Damascus, to the synagogues, so that if he found any who were of the Way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
And on going, it came to pass for him to approach Damascus. And suddenly there shone around him a light out of heaven.
And after falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why do thou persecute me?
And he said, Who are thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecute.
But arise, and enter into the city, and it will be told thee what thou must do.
And the men who traveled with him had stopped, speechless, indeed hearing the voice, but seeing no man.
And Saul arose from the ground. And when his eyes were opened, he saw no man. But they brought him into Damascus, leading him by the hand.
And he was three days not seeing, and did not eat or drink.
Now there was a certain disciple in Damascus, named Ananias, and the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold me, Lord.
And the Lord said to him, After rising, go into the street called Straight, and seek in the house of Judas, a man named Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he is praying.
And he saw in a vision a man named Ananias who came in and laid a hand on him, so that he might receive sight.
But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how many evil things he did to thy sanctified at Jerusalem.
And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call upon thy name.
But the Lord said to him, Go, because this man is a chosen vessel to me, to bear my name before Gentiles and kings, and sons of Israel.
For I will give him a glimpse of how many things it is necessary for him to suffer for my name.
And Ananias departed and entered into the house. And having laid hands on him he said, Brother Saul, the Lord, he who appeared to thee on the road on which thou came, has sent me so that thou may receive sight, and be filled of the Holy Spirit.
And straightaway there fell from his eyes, like scales, and he looked up. And immediately after rising up, he was immersed.
And having received nourishment, he was strengthened. And Saul became with the disciples in Damascus some days.
And straightaway he proclaimed the Christ in the synagogues, that this man is the Son of God.
And all those who heard were amazed, and said, Is this not the man who destroyed those in Jerusalem who call on this name? And he has come here for this, so that he might bring them bound to the chief priests.
But Saul was strengthened more, and was confounding the Jews who dwell at Damascus, proving that this is the Christ.
And after considerable days were fulfilled, the Jews plotted to destroy him,
but their plot was known to Saul. And they watched the gates both day and night so that they might destroy him.
But the disciples, after taking him by night, let him down through the wall, having lowered him in a hamper.
And when Saul arrived in Jerusalem, he attempted to join with the disciples, and they all feared him, not believing that he is a disciple.
But Barnabas having taken him, he brought him to the apostles. And he related to them how he saw the Lord on the road, and that he spoke to him, and how he spoke boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus.
And he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem, and speaking boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists, but they attempted to destroy him.
But when the brothers knew it, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him away to Tarsus.
Indeed therefore the congregations throughout the whole of Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, being edified. And, going in the fear of the Lord and in the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied.
And it came to pass, Peter, passing through all parts, to also come down to the sanctified who dwell at Lydda.
And he found there a certain man named Aeneas, who was paralyzed, laying on a bed for eight years.
And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals thee. Arise and make thy bed. And straightaway he arose.
And all those dwelling at Lydda and Sharon who saw him, turned to the Lord.
Now at Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which, being translated, is called Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and charities that she did.
And in those days, having been ill, she happened to die. And after washing her, they laid her in an upper chamber.
And since Lydda is near Joppa, the disciples, having heard that Peter is in it, they sent two men to him, exhorting him not to delay to go through to them.
And after rising, Peter went with them, whom, after coming, they brought into the upper chamber. And all the widows stood by him weeping, and exhibiting the coats and garments, as many things as Dorcas made being with them.
But Peter, having sent them all out, having knelt down, he prayed. And having turned to the body, he said, Tabitha, arise. And the woman opened her eyes. And when she saw Peter, she sat up.
And having given her a hand, he raised her up. And after calling the sanctified and the widows, he presented her alive.
And it became known throughout the whole of Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
And it came to pass for him to remain considerable days at Joppa with a certain Simon, a tanner.