Be imitators of me, even as I also am of Christ.
But I praise you, brothers, that you remember me in all things, and you keep the doctrines as I delivered them to you.
But I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered dishonors his Head.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head unveiled dishonors her head; for that is even the same as if she were shaved.
For if the woman is not veiled, let her also be shorn. But if it is a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be veiled.
For a man indeed ought not to have his head covered, because he is the image and glory of God. But the woman is the glory of the man.
For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man.
Nor was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man.
For this reason the woman ought to have authority on her head because of the angels.
But neither is the man without the woman, nor the woman without the man, in the Lord.
For as the woman is of the man, even so the man is also by the woman; but all things of God.
Judge among yourselves: is it right that a woman pray to God unveiled?
Does not even nature itself teach you that if man has long hair, it is a shame to him?
But if a woman should have long hair, it is a glory to her; for her hair is given to her in place of a veil.
But if anyone seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor the churches of God.
But in enjoining this, I do not praise you, because you come together not for the better, but for the worse.
For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and I partly believe it.
For there must also be heresies among you, that the approved ones may be revealed among you.
Therefore when you come together into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper.
For in eating each one takes his own supper first; and one is hungry, and another drunken.
For do you not have houses in which to eat and drink? Or do you despise the church of God, and shame those who do not have? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you for this? I do not praise you!
For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed took bread;
And giving thanks, He broke it and said, "Take, eat; this is My body, which is broken for you; this do in remembrance of Me."
In the same way He took the cup also, after supping, saying, "This cup is the New Covenant in My blood; as often as you drink it, do this in remembrance of Me."
For "as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you show" the Lord's death until He shall come.
So that whoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily, he will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup.
For he who eats and drinks unworthily eats and drinks condemnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body.
For this cause many among you are weak and sickly, and many sleep.
For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged.
But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world.
So that, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.
But if anyone hungers, let him eat at home, so that you do not come together to condemnation. And the rest I will set in order when I come.