Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus, of Bethany, the village of Mary and Martha her sister.
It was the Mary that anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
Therefore his sisters sent to him, saying: Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
But when Jesus heard it, he said: This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, that by it the Son of God may be glorified.
Now, Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
When, therefore, he heard that he was sick, he still remained two days in the place where he was.
Then after this, he said to his disciples: Let us go into Judea again.
His disciples said to him: Rabbi, the Jews just now sought to stone thee, and art thou going thither again?
Jesus answered: Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any one walks during the day, he does not stumble, for he sees the light of this world.
But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles, because there is no light in him.
Thus spoke he; and after this he said to them: Our friend Lazarus sleeps; but I go that I may awake him out of sleep.
Then his disciples said: Lord, if he sleeps, he will be saved.
Jesus spoke of his death; but they thought that he spoke of taking rest in sleep.
Therefore, Jesus then said to them plainly: Lazarus is dead.
And I rejoice, on your account, that I was not there, in order that you may believe. But let us go to him.
Then Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow-disciples: Let us also go, that we may die with him.
Then when Jesus came, he found that he had already been four days in the tomb.
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off.
And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother.
Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went out to meet him; but Mary sat still in the house.
Then Martha said to Jesus: Lord, if thou hadst been here my brother would not have died.
But even now, I know that whatever thou wilt ask of God, God will give thee.
Jesus said to her: Your brother shall rise again.
Martha said to him: I know that he will rise, in the resurrection at the last day.
Jesus said to her: I am the resurrection, and the life; he that believes on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live;
and he that lives and believes on me, shall never die. Do you believe this?
She said to him: Yes, Lord; I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, who was to come into the world.
And when she had said this, she went away, and called Mary, her sister, secretly, saying: The Teacher has come, and calls for you.
When she heard it, she rose quickly and came to him.
Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in the place where Martha met him.
Then the Jews that were with her in the house, and were comforting her, seeing Mary rise and go out quickly, followed her, saying: She is going to the tomb to weep there.
Then, when Mary came where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him: Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother would not have died.
Then, when Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews that came with her weeping also, he was greatly moved in spirit, and troubled;
and he said: Where have you laid him? They said to him: Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
Then said the Jews: See how he loved him!
And some of them said: Could not he, who opened the eyes of the blind man, have caused that even this man should not have died?
Then Jesus, again greatly moved within himself, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone was laid against it.
Jesus said: Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, said to him: Lord, the body is offensive; for he has been dead four days.
Jesus said to her: Did I not tell you, that, if you would believe, you should see the glory of God?
Then they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said: Father, I thank thee, that thou hast heard me.
I know, in deed, that thou dost always hear me. But for the sake of the multitude who stand around me, I have said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.
And when he had said these things, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.
And he that had been dead came forth, bound hand and foot with grave-clothes; and his face was bound around with a handkerchief. Jesus said to them: Loose him, and let him go.
Then many of the Jews that had come to Mary, and who saw what he had done, believed on him.
But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them what Jesus had done.
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees called together the Sanhedrin, and said: What are we doing? For this man does many signs.
If we thus let him alone, all will believe on him, and the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation.
But one of them, Caiaphas, who was chief priest that year, said to them: You know nothing,
nor do you consider that it is profitable for us, that one man should die for the people, and not that the whole nation should perish.
But this he did not speak of himself; but being chief priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was about to die for the nation;
and not for the nation only, but that he should gather into one the children of God that were scattered abroad.
From that day, therefore, they consulted together to put him to death.
Therefore, Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews, but withdrew thence to the region near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim, and there he remained with his disciples.
And the passover of the Jews was near; and many went up from the country to Jerusalem, before the passover, to purify themselves.
Then they sought for Jesus, and said one to another, as they stood in the temple: What think you, that he will not come to the feast?
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders, that, if any one knew where he was, he should inform them, that they might take him.