Then moved they on from Elim, and all the assembly of the sons of Israel entered into the desert of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month, by their coming forth out of the land of Egypt.
Then did all the assembly of the sons of Israel murmur against Moses and against Aaron in the desert;
and the sons of Israel said unto them—Oh that we had died by the hand of Yahweh, in the land of Egypt, when we remained by the pot of flesh, when we did eat bread to the full,—for ye have brought us forth into this desert, to cause all this multitude to die by famine.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses, Behold me! raining down for you bread out of heaven,—and the people shall go out and gather the portion for a day, on its day, that I may prove them whether they will walk in my law, or not.
And it shall come to pass on the sixth day, that they shall settle what they shall bring in,—and it shall be twice as much as they gather day by day.
So Moses and Aaron said unto all the sons of Israel,—At eventide, then shall ye know that it was, Yahweh, who brought you forth, out of the land of Egypt;
and, in the morning, then shall ye see the glory of Yahweh, in that he hath heard your murmurings against Yahweh,—what then are, we, that ye should murmur against, us?
And Moses said—In that Yahweh giveth you in the evening flesh to eat, and bread in the morning, to the full, in that Yahweh heareth your murmurings wherewith ye are murmuring against him, what then are, we? Not against us, do ye murmur but against Yahweh.
And Moses said unto Aaron, Say unto all the assembly of the sons of Israel, Draw near, before Yahweh,—for he hath heard your murmurings.
And it came to pass, when Aaron spake unto all the assembly of the sons of Israel, then turned they towards the desert,—and lo! the glory of Yahweh, had appeared in the cloud,
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses—saying,
I have heard the murmurings of the sons of Israel,—speak unto them, saying—Between the two evenings, shall ye eat flesh, and in the morning, shall ye be filled with bread,—so shall ye know that I Yahweh am your God.
And it came to pass, in the evening, that there came up quail, and covered the camp,—and in the morning was the outpouring of dew, round about the camp;
and when the outpouring of dew went up, then lo! on the face of the desert, a thin flake, thin as hoar-frost on the earth,
And when the sons of Israel saw it they said one to another—What is that? For they knew not what "that" was. Then said Moses unto them, "That" is the bread which Yahweh hath given you to eat.
This, is the thing which Yahweh hath commanded, Gather ye thereof, each man what he needeth for eating,—an omer a head, by the number of your souls, each man—for them who are in his tent, shall ye take.
And the sons of Israel did so,—and gathered, [some] more, and [some] less;
and when they measured it with the omer, he who had gathered more had nothing over, and he who had gathered less had no lack: each man what he needed for eating, did they gather.
And Moses said unto them,—Let, no man leave thereof, until morning.
But they hearkened not unto Moses, but certain men left thereof until morning, and it swarmed with worms and become loathsome,—and Moses was wroth with them.
Thus then they gathered it morning by morning, each man what he needed for eating, and as soon as the sun waxed hot, so soon it melted.
And it came to pass on the sixth day, that they gathered food twice as much, two omers for each one,—so all the princes of the assembly came in, and told Moses.
And he said unto them—That is what Yahweh spake. The observance of a holy sabbath to Yahweh, is to-morrow,—what ye would bake, bake and what ye would boil, boil, and all that is left over, put by you to keep until the morning.
So they put it by until the morning, as Moses had commanded,—and it gave no unpleasant odour, neither was there a worm, therein.
Then said Moses—Eat ye it to-day, for a sabbath, is to-day, unto Yahweh,—to-day, ye shall not find it in the field.
Six days, shall ye gather it,—but on the seventh day, a sabbath, it shall not be therein.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that there went forth some of the people to gather,—but they found not.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses,—How long have ye refused to keep my commandments and my laws?
See because Yahweh hath given you the sabbath, for this cause, is, he, giving you on the sixth day, food for two days,—abide ye every man in his place, let no man go forth from his dwelling, on the seventh day,
So the people rested on the seventh day.
And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna,—and the same, was like coriander seed white, and the taste thereof, like flat-cake with honey,
And Moses said—This, is the thing which Yahweh hath commanded, Fill an omer therefrom as a thing to be preserved to your generations,—that they may see the bread wherewith I fed you in the desert, when I brought you forth out of the land of Egypt.
So Moses said unto Aaron—Take a single basket, and put therein an omer-full of manna,—and set it down before Yahweh, as a thing to be preserved to your generations.
As Yahweh gave command unto Moses, so did Aaron set it down before the testimony, as a thing to be preserved,
And, the sons of Israel did eat the manna forty years, until they entered into the land wherein they were to dwell,—the manna, they did eat until they entered into the bounds of the land of Canaan.
Now, an omer, is, the tenth of the ephah.