Indeed, to boast is not profitable to me, for I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
I know a man in Christ fourteen years before--whether in the body, I do not know, or out of the body, I do not know, God knows--such a one was caught up to the third Heaven.
And I know such a man--whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know; God knows--
that he was caught up into Paradise and heard unspeakable words which it is not permissible for a man to speak.
On behalf of such a one I will boast. But I will not boast on my behalf, except in my weaknesses.
For if I desire to boast, I will not be foolish, for I speak the truth. But I spare, lest anyone reckons me to be beyond what he sees me or hears of me.
And by surpassing revelations, that I not be made haughty, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan, that he might buffet me, that I not be made haughty.
Beyond this I entreated the Lord three times, that it depart from me.
And He said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for My power is perfected in weakness. Therefore, I will rather gladly boast in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may overshadow me.
Because of this, I am pleased in weaknesses, in insults, in dire needs, in persecutions, in distresses, for the sake of Christ. For when I may be weak, then I am powerful.
Boasting, I have become foolish. You compelled me. For I ought to be commended by you, for I lacked nothing of the highest apostles, even though I am nothing.
Truly the signs of the apostle were worked out among you in all patience, in miracles, and in wonders, and by works of power.
For what is it in which you were less than the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong.
Behold, I am ready to come to you a third time . And I will not burden you, for I do not seek your things, but you. For the children ought not to lay up treasure for the parents, but the parents for the children.
But I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls, even if loving you more and more, I am loved the less.
But let it be so, I did not burden you; but being crafty, I caught you with bait.
By any whom I have sent to you, did I overreach you by him?
I begged Titus and sent the brother with him . Did Titus overreach you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps?
Again, do you think we are defending to you? We speak before God in Christ, but in all things for your building up, beloved.
For I fear lest somehow coming I not find you as I wish, and I be found by you such as you do not wish; lest somehow there be strifes, envyings, angers, rivalries, evil speakings, whisperings, proud thoughts, disturbances;
that in my coming again, my God may not humble me with you, and I shall mourn many of those previously sinning and not repenting over the uncleanness and fornication and lustfulness which they have practiced.