After these things, I saw, and lo! a door set open in heaven; and, the first voice which I heard as of a trumpet, speaking with me, saying—Come up hither! and I will point out to thee the things which must needs come to pass. After these things,
straightway, I came to be in Spirit, and lo! a throne, stood in heaven, and, upon the throne, [was] one sitting;
and, he that was sitting, [was] like in appearance to a jasper stone and a sardius, and [there was] a rainbow round about the throne, like in appearance unto an emerald,
And, round about the throne, were four and twenty thrones; and, upon the thrones, four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white garments, and, upon their heads, [were] crowns of gold.
And, out of the throne, are coming forth lightnings, and voices, and thunderings; and [there are] seven torches of fire, burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God;
and, before the throne, [is] as a glassy sea, like unto crystal. And, in the midst of the throne, and around the throne, [are] four living creatures full of eyes, before and behind;
and, the first living creature, [is] like unto a lion, and, the second living creature, like unto a calf, and, the third living creature, hath the face as of a man, and, the fourth living creature, [is] like unto an eagle flying;
and, the four living creatures, each one of them, have severally six wings, round about and within, full of eyes; and they, cease, not, day and night, saying—Holy! holy! holy! Lord, God, the Almighty,—Who was, and Who is, and Who is coming.
And, whensoever the living creatures shall give glory, and honour, and thanksgiving, unto him that sitteth upon the throne, unto him that liveth unto the ages of ages,
the four and twenty elders will fall down before him that sitteth upon the throne, and do homage unto him that liveth unto the ages of ages,—and will cast their crowns before the throne, saying—
Worthy, art thou, O Lord, and our God, to receive the glory, and the honour, and the power: because thou didst create all things, and, by reason of thy will, they were, and were created.