Whoever loves instruction loves knowledge, but he who hates correction is like a brute animal.
The good obtain grace from Jehovah, but He will condemn a man of wicked devices.
A man shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
A woman of virtue is a crown to her lord, but one causing shame is like rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are right; the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked ambush for blood, but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
Overthrow the wicked, and they are not; but the house of the righteous stands.
A man shall be praised according to his wisdom, but he who is of a crooked heart shall be despised.
He who is despised, and has a servant, is better than one honoring himself and lacking bread.
The righteous knows the life of his animal, but the mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He who tills his land shall be satisfied with bread, but he chasing vanities lacks heart.
The wicked desires the net of evils, but the root of the righteous gives fruit .
In the transgression of the lips is the snare of evil, but the righteous will come out from distress.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of the mouth, and the dealing of man's hands shall be given back to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he who listens to advice is wise.
A fool's vexation is known in a day, but the astute one covers shame.
He who breathes faithfulness reveals righteousness, but a false witness deceit.
There is a rash speaking like thrusts of a sword, but the tongue of the wise heals.
The lips of truth are established forever, but a lying tongue is only while I wink.
Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but to counselors of peace is joy.
No trouble shall happen to the just, but the wicked shall be filled with evil.
Lying lips are hateful to Jehovah, but those who deal faithfulness are His delight.
A wise man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools calls out their folly.
The hand of the hard worker shall rule, but the remiss ones will become forced labor.
Heaviness in a man's heart makes it droop, but a good word makes it glad.
The righteous searches out with his friend, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
The slacker does not start after his game, but the wealth of a working man is precious.
In the way of righteousness is life, and in that pathway is no death.