To him that excelleth upon Aiieleth Hasshahar. A Psalme of Dauid. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me, and art so farre from mine health, and from the wordes of my roaring?
O my God, I crie by day, but thou hearest not, and by night, but haue no audience.
But thou art holy, and doest inhabite the prayses of Israel.
Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didest deliuer them.
They called vpon thee, and were deliuered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.
But I am a worme, and not a man: a shame of men, and the contempt of the people.
All they that see me, haue me in derision: they make a mowe and nod the head, saying,
He trusted in the Lord, let him deliuer him: let him saue him, seeing he loueth him.
But thou didest draw me out of ye wombe: thou gauest me hope, euen at my mothers breasts.
I was cast vpon thee, euen from ye wombe: thou art my God from my mothers belly.
Be not farre from me, because trouble is neere: for there is none to helpe me.
Many yong bulles haue compassed me: mightie bulles of Bashan haue closed me about.
They gape vpon me with their mouthes, as a ramping and roaring lyon.
I am like water powred out, and all my bones are out of ioynt: mine heart is like waxe: it is molten in the middes of my bowels.
My strength is dryed vp like a potsheard, and my tongue cleaueth to my iawes, and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.
For dogges haue compassed me, and the assemblie of the wicked haue inclosed me: they perced mine hands and my feete.
I may tell all my bones: yet they beholde, and looke vpon me.
They part my garments among them, and cast lottes vpon my vesture.
But be thou not farre off, O Lord, my strength: hasten to helpe me.
Deliuer my soule from the sword: my desolate soule from the power of the dogge.
Saue me from the lyons mouth, and answere me in sauing me from the hornes of the vnicornes.
I wil declare thy Name vnto my brethren: in the middes of the Congregation will I praise thee, saying,
Prayse the Lord, ye that feare him: magnifie ye him, all the seede of Iaakob, and feare ye him, all the seede of Israel.
For he hath not despised nor abhorred ye affliction of the poore: neither hath he hid his face from him, but when he called vnto him, he heard.
My prayse shalbe of thee in the great Congregation: my vowes will I perfourme before them that feare him.
The poore shall eate and be satisfied: they that seeke after the Lord, shall prayse him: your heart shall liue for euer.
All the endes of the worlde shall remember themselues, and turne to the Lord: and all the kinreds of the nations shall worship before thee.
For the kingdome is the Lords, and he ruleth among the nations.
All they that be fat in the earth, shall eate and worship: all they that go downe into the dust, shall bowe before him, euen he that cannot quicken his owne soule.
Their seede shall serue him: it shalbe counted vnto the Lord for a generation.
They shall come, and shall declare his righteousnesse vnto a people that shall be borne, because he hath done it.