Hear Me, pursuers of righteousness, seekers of Jehovah: Look to the rock from which you were cut, and to the hollow of the pit from which you were dug.
Look to your father Abraham, and to Sarah who bore you. For he being but one, I called him and blessed him and increased him.
For Jehovah comforts Zion. He comforts all her desolations, and He makes her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of Jehovah; joy and gladness shall be found in it, thanksgiving and the voice of singing praise.
Hear Me, My people; yea, give ear to Me, My nation. For a law shall go out from Me, and My justice I will make rest as light to peoples.
My righteousness is near; My salvation went out; and My arms shall judge peoples; coastlands shall wait on Me, and they shall hope on My arm.
Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look to the earth beneath; for the heavens vanish like smoke, and the earth shall wear out like a garment; and its inhabitants shall die in the same way, but My salvation shall be forever, and My righteousness shall not be broken.
Hear Me, knowers of righteousness, the people of My law in their heart; do not fear the reproach of man, and do not be bowed from their blasphemings.
For the moth shall eat them like a garment; yea, the moth worm shall eat them like wool. But My righteousness shall be forever, and My salvation to generation to generation.
Awake! Awake! Arm of Jehovah, put on strength. Awake, as in days of old, everlasting generations. Was it not You cutting in pieces Rahab, and piercing the sea monster?
Was it not You drying up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass?
Yea, the ransomed of Jehovah shall return and come to Zion with singing, and everlasting joy shall be on their head; gladness and joy shall overtake them ; sorrow and sighing shall flee.
I, I am He comforting you. Who are you, that you should fear from man? He shall die! And from the son of man? He is given as grass.
And you forget your Maker Jehovah, who has stretched out the heavens and founded the earth. And you dread continually, every day, from the fury of the oppressor, since he was ready to destroy. And where is the fury of the oppressor?
Bowed down, he hurries to be freed, and not that he die in the pit, and not that he lack his bread.
But I am Jehovah your God, stirring up the sea and a making its waves roar; Jehovah of Hosts is His name.
And I have put My words in your mouth, and covered you in the shade of My hand, to plant the heavens and found the earth, and to say to Zion, You are My people.
Awake! Awake! Rise up, O Jerusalem, who drank the cup of His fury from the hand of Jehovah; you drank the bowl of the cup of reeling; you fully drained it .
No guide is for her among all the sons she has borne; and none takes her by the hand of all the sons she made to grow.
Those two things came to you; who shall wail for you? Ruin and shattering and famine and the sword, who but I shall comfort you?
Your sons have fainted; they lie at the head of all the streets, like an antelope in a net, filled with the fury of Jehovah, the rebuke of your God.
So hear this now, afflicted one, and drunken, but not from wine:
So says your Lord Jehovah and your God, He strives for His people. Behold, I have taken the cup of reeling out of your hand, the bowl of the cup of My fury; you shall not yet again drink it.
But I will put it into the hand of those oppressing you, who have said to your soul, Bow down that we may cross, and Put your back as the ground, and as the street to those who cross.