Do not be jealous of evil men, nor desire to be with them.
For their heart studies ruin, and their lips talk of mischief.
Through wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established;
and by knowledge the rooms shall be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
A wise man is strong; yes, a man of knowledge increases strength.
For by wise counsel you shall make your war; and in a multitude of wise men there is safety.
Wisdom is too high for a fool; he does not open his mouth in the gate.
He who plots to do evil shall be called a master of wicked thoughts.
The thought of foolishness is sin; and the scorner is hateful to men.
If you faint in the day of trial, your strength is small.
Deliver those being taken to death, and those stumbling to be killed, unless you hold back.
if you say, Behold, we did not know; does not He who searches the heart consider it? And the Keeper of your soul, does He know? And He repays to a man according to his works?
My son, eat honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, is sweet to your palate;
so shall the knowledge of wisdom be to your soul; when you have found it, then there shall be a reward, and your hope shall not be cut off.
Wicked one, do not lie in ambush at the dwelling of the righteous; do not spoil his resting place;
for a just one falls seven times, and rises up again; but the wicked shall fall into evil.
Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, and do not let your heart be glad when he stumbles;
lest the LORD see, and it displease Him, and He turn away His wrath from him.
Do not fret yourself because of evil ones, nor be jealous of the wicked;
for there shall be not be a hereafter to the evil; the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
My son, fear the LORD and the king; and do not fellowship with those who are given to change;
for their trouble shall rise suddenly, and who knows the ruin of them both?
These also are for the wise: To have respect of persons in judgment is not good.
He who says to the wicked, You are righteous; the people shall curse him and nations shall abhor him.
But to those who rebuke him, it shall be a delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them.
He shall kiss the lips that return right words.
Prepare your work outside, and make it fit for yourself in the field; and afterwards build your house.
Do not be a witness against your neighbor without cause, nor deceive with your lips.
Do not `say, I will do so to him as he has done to me; I will give to the man according to his work.
I went by the field of the lazy man, and by the vineyard of the man without understanding;
and, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face of it, and its stone wall was broken down.
Then I saw; I set my heart on it; I looked and I received instruction.
A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to lie down;
then your poverty comes stalking, and your want like an a man armed with a shield.