And he made an altar of bronze, its length twenty cubits and its breadth twenty cubits, and its height ten cubits.
And he made the molten sea of ten cubits from its brim to its brim, circular all around; and its height was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits compassed it all around.
And under it was the shape of oxen, under it and all around it for ten cubits, compassing the sea all around. Two rows of oxen were cast when it was cast.
It stood on twelve oxen, three facing the north, and three facing the west, and three facing the south, and three facing the east; and the sea was upon them above, and all their hinder parts inside.
And its thickness was a handbreadth, and its lip like the work of the lip of a cup, like a lily blossom. It received and held three thousand baths.
He also made ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five on the left, to wash in them; they washed what pertains to the burnt offering with them; and the sea was for the priests to wash in.
And he made ten lampstands of gold, according to their ordinance, and placed them in the temple, five on the right, and five on the left.
He also made ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on the right, and five on the left; and he made a hundred basins of gold.
And he made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court; and he overlaid their doors with bronze.
And he placed the sea on the right side eastward, across from the south.
And Hiram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basins. And Hiram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon in the house of God:
the two pillars, and the bowls, and the capitals on the top of the two pillars, and the two net-works to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars;
and the pomegranates (four hundred to the two net-works, two rows of pomegranates to the one net-work) to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the face of the pillars.
He also made the bases; and he made lavers on the bases;
the one sea, and twelve oxen under it,
and the pots, and the shovels, and the forks, and all their vessels did his master Hiram make for king Solomon for the house of Jehovah, of burnished bronze.
In the plain of Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredathah.
And Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance, so that the weight of the bronze could not be searched out.
And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God, and the golden altar, and the tables on which the Bread of the Presence rested ;
and the lampstands, and their lamps, for their burning was according to the ordinance, before the holy place, of refined gold;
and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs of gold (it was perfect gold).
and the snuffers, and the bowls, and the spoons, and the firepans, of pure gold; and the entrance to the house, its innermost doors to the Holy of Holies, and the doors of the house to the temple, of gold.