Then he took me unto the gate,—even the gate that looked toward the east;
when lo! the glory of the God of Israel coming from the way of the east,—and the sound of him, was as the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory.
And it was like the appearance of the vision which I had seen like the vision which I saw—when I came in to destroy the city, also the visions were like the vision which I saw by the river Chebar,—so I fell upon my face.
And the glory of Yahweh entered into the house,—by way of the gate which looked toward the east.
So then the spirit lifted me up, and brought me into the inner court,—and lo! the glory of Yahweh filled the house.
Then heard I one speaking unto me. out of the house,—and a man, there was standing beside me.
Then said he unto me, Son of man This is the place of my throne and the place of the soles of my feet where I would dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel to times age-abiding,- But the house of Israel must, no more defile my holy Name. They, nor their kings by their unchastity, and by the carcases of their kings in their high places,
When they placed— Their threshold by my threshold and their door-post beside my door-post, With, only the wall, between me and them, then defiled they my holy Name by their abominations which they committed, Wherefore I devoured them in mine anger.
Now, let them remove their unchastity and the carcases of their kings far from me,- So will I make my habitation in the midst of them, to times age-abiding.
Thou, son of man, Declare the house unto the house of Israel, That they may be put to the blush for their iniquities,- Then let them measure the pattern.
And when they have blushed for all that they have done, then The form of the house. And the arrangement thereof And the exits thereof. And the entrances thereof And all the forms thereof, and all the statutes thereof. And all the forms thereof and all the laws thereof, make thou known unto them, And write [it] before their eyes; That they may keep— All the forms thereof And all the statutes thereof. And do them.
This shall be the law of the house,— Upon the top of the mountain, all the boundary thereof round about on every side, [shall be] most holy, Lo! this, shall be the law of the house.
And these, shall be the measures of the altar, in cubits, a cubit being a cubit and a handbreadth; and the hollow, shall be a cubit, and a cubit the breadth, and the boundary thereof unto the edge thereof round about shall be a single span. And this, shall be the upper part of the altar,
And from the hollow of the ground unto the lower ledge, [shall be] two cubits, and the breadth, one cubit,- and from the smaller ledge unto the larger ledge, [shall be] four cubits, and the breadth, a cubit.
And the hearth, [shall, be] four cubits,—and from the hearth and upward, the horns [shall be] four.
And the hearth shall be twelve cubits in length, by twelve in breadth—square in the four sides thereof.
And the ledge shall be fourteen in length, by fourteen in breadth, unto the four sides thereof,—and the boundary round about it shall be half a cubit and, the hollow thereto, a cubit round about, with, the steps thereof, looking toward the east.
Then said he unto me, Son of man, Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh, These, shall be the statutes of the altar, in the day when it is made,—for offering up thereon—an ascending-sacrifice, and for dashing thereon—blood.
So then thou shalt give unto the priests the Levites those who are of the seed of Zadok who approach unto me Declareth My Lord Yahweh. to wait upon me—a young bullock as a sin-bearer,
Then shalt thou take of the blood thereof and place upon the four horns thereof and on the four corners of the ledge, and on the boundary, round about,—and shalt cleanse it from sin and put a propitiatory-covering over it.
Then shalt thou take the bullock bearing sin,- and shalt burn it in the appointed place of the house, outside the sanctuary,
And on the second day, shalt thou bring near a kid of the goats without defect as a sin-bearer,—and they shall cleanse the altar from sin just as they cleansed it from sin with the bullock,
When thou hast made an end of cleansing from sin, thou shalt bring near a young bullock without defect, and a ram out of the flock without defect;
and shalt bring them near before Yahweh,—and the priests shall cast over them salt, so shall they cause them to go up as an ascending-sacrifice to Yahweh.
Seven days, shalt thou offer a sin-bearing goat for each day,—and a young bullock and aram out of the flock without defect, shall they offer.
Seven days, shall they put a propitiatory covering over the altar, and shall purify it,—and shall consecrate it.
When the days shall be accomplished, then shall it be on the eighth day and forward, that the priests shall offer upon the altar your ascending-sacrifices and your peace offerings. And I will accept you Declareth, My Lord Yahweh.