The Kings heart is in the hand of the Lord, as the riuers of waters: he turneth it whithersoeuer it pleaseth him.
Euery way of a man is right in his owne eyes: but the Lord pondereth the hearts.
To doe iustice and iudgement is more acceptable to the Lord then sacrifice.
A hautie looke, and a proude heart, which is the light of the wicked, is sinne.
The thoughtes of the diligent doe surely bring abundance: but whosoeuer is hastie, commeth surely to pouertie.
The gathering of treasures by a deceitfull tongue is vanitie tossed to and from of them that seeke death.
The robberie of the wicked shall destroy them: for they haue refused to execute iudgement.
The way of some is peruerted and strange: but of the pure man, his worke is right.
It is better to dwell in a corner of the house top, then with a contentious woman in a wide house.
The soule of the wicked wisheth euill: and his neighbour hath no fauour in his eyes.
When the scorner is punished, the foolish is wise: and when one instructeth the wise, he wil receiue knowledge.
The righteous teacheth the house of the wicked: but God ouerthroweth the wicked for their euill.
He that stoppeth his eare at the crying of the poore, he shall also cry and not be heard.
A gift in secret pacifieth anger, and a gift in the bosome great wrath.
It is ioye to the iust to doe iudgement: but destruction shalbe to the workers of iniquitie.
A man that wandreth out of the way of wisdome, shall remaine in the congregation of the dead.
Hee that loueth pastime, shalbe a poore man: and he that loueth wine and oyle, shall not be riche.
The wicked shalbe a ransome for the iust, and the transgressour for the righteous.
It is better to dwell in the wildernesse, then with a contentious and angry woman.
In the house of the wise is a pleasant treasure and oyle: but a foolish man deuoureth it.
He that followeth after righteousnes and mercy, shall finde life, righteousnes, and glory.
A wise man goeth vp into the citie of the mightie, and casteth downe the strength of the confidence thereof.
He that keepeth his mouth and his tongue, keepeth his soule from afflictions.
Proude, hautie and scornefull is his name that worketh in his arrogancie wrath.
The desire of the slouthfull slayeth him: for his hands refuse to worke.
He coueteth euermore greedily, but the righteous giueth and spareth not.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination: how much more when he bringeth it with a wicked minde?
A false witnes shall perish: but hee that heareth, speaketh continually.
A wicked man hardeneth his face: but the iust, he will direct his way.
There is no wisedome, neither vnderstanding, nor counsell against the Lord.
The horse is prepared against the day of battell: but saluation is of the Lord.