Call now. Is there anyone answering you? And to which of the saints will you turn?
For vexation kills the fool, and passion puts to death the simple.
I have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his dwelling place.
His sons are far from safety; yea, they are crushed in the gate; nor is there any deliverer.
The hungry eat his harvest, and take him to the thorns, and the snare snuffs up their wealth.
For affliction does not come forth from the dust, nor does trouble spring up out of the ground;
for man is born to trouble, and the sons of the flame rise, flying upward .
Truly, I would seek to God, and to God I would put my plea,
who is doing great things, and there is no searching them ; marvelous things to which is no numbering,
giving rain on the face of the earth and sending water on the face of the field;
to set the lowly on high; yea, the mourners become very high in safety;
breaking the plots of the crafty, nor did their hands perform the undertaking.
He takes the wise in their craftiness, and the counsel of the wily ones is hastened.
They meet with darkness by day, and grope in the noonday as in the night.
But He saves the needy from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty.
And there is hope for the weak; and injustice shuts her mouth.
Behold, blessed is the man whom God corrects; and despise not the chastisement of the Almighty.
For He wounds, and He binds up. He shatters, and His hands heal.
He will deliver you in six troubles; yea, in seven no evil shall touch you.
In famine He will redeem you from death; and in war from the hand of the sword.
You shall be hidden from the whip of the tongue; and you shall not be afraid of violence when it comes.
You shall laugh at violence and at famine; and you shall not be afraid of the beasts of the earth.
For you shall be in covenant with the stones of the field; and the beasts of the field will be at peace with you.
And you shall know that your tent is in peace; and you shall visit your home and shall miss nothing.
And you shall know that your seed will be numerous, and your offspring as the grass of the earth.
You shall come to the grave in full vigor, like a stack of grain comes up in its season.
Consider this. We have searched it out; it is so. Hear it, and know it for yourself.