Jude, Jesus Christ’s servant, and brother of James, unto, the called, by God the Father, beloved, and, by Jesus Christ preserved,—
Mercy to you, and peace, and love, be multiplied!
Beloved! though I was using all diligence to be writing unto you concerning our common salvation, yet have I had necessity to write at once unto you, exhorting you to be earnestly contending for, the faith, once for all delivered unto the saints.
For there have crept in unobserved certain men, who, from of old, have been publicly notified for this sentence, ungodly, men, the favour of our God, turning into wantonness, and, our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ, denying.
I am minded, therefore, to put you in remembrance,—though ye know all things once for all, That the Lord, when a people out of Egypt he had saved, in, the next place, them that believed not, destroyed.
Messengers also, even them who had not kept their own principality, but had forsaken their proper dwelling, unto the judgment of the great day in perpetual bonds under thick gloom, hath he reserved.
As, Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, having in like manner to these given themselves over to fornication, and gone away after other kind of flesh, lie exposed as an example, a penalty of age-abiding fire, undergoing.
In like manner, nevertheless, even these, in their dreamings, flesh indeed defile, while lordship they set aside, and dignities they defame.
Whereas, Michael, the chief-messenger, when, with the adversary, disputing, he was reasoning about the body of Moses, durst not impose on him a defamatory sentence, but said—The Lord rebuke thee!
But, these, whatsoever things, indeed, they know not, they defame; but, whatsoever things, naturally, like the irrational creatures, they well understand, by these, are they, bringing themselves to ruin.
Alas for them! because—in the way of Cain have they gone, and, in the error of Balaam’s wage, have they run riot, and, in the gainsaying of Korah, have they perished.
These are they—who, in your love-feasts, are hidden rocks, as they fare sumptuously together, fearlessly, themselves, shepherding,—clouds without water, by winds swept along, trees autumnal, fruitless, twice dead, uprooted,
Wild waves of sea, foaming out their own infamies, wandering stars, for whom the gloom of darkness age-abiding hath been reserved.
But the seventh from Adam, Enoch, prophesied, even of these, saying—Lo! the Lord hath come with his holy myriads,—
To execute judgment against all, and to convict all the ungodly—of all their works of ungodliness, which they committed in ungodliness, and of all the hard things which they have spoken against him—sinners, ungodly!
These, are murmurers, complainers, according to their covetings, going on,—and, their mouth, speaketh great swelling words,—holding persons in admiration, for profit’s sake.
But, ye, beloved! remember the things which were foretold by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
How that they used to say to you—In the last time, there shall be mockers,—according to their own ungodly covetings, going on.
These, are they who make complete separation, mere men of soul, Spirit, not possessing.
But, ye, beloved! building yourselves up in your most holy faith, in Holy Spirit, praying,
Yourselves, in God’s love, keep,—awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, unto age-abiding life.
And, on some, indeed, have mercy,—such as are in doubt, be saving, out of the fire, snatching them;
But, on others, have mercy with fear, hating even, the garment, spotted by the flesh.
Now, unto him who is able—to guard you from stumbling, and to set you in the presence of his glory, without blemish, with exultation,—
Unto God alone our Saviour, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, greatness, dominion, and authority, before all the [by-gone] age, and now, and unto all the [coming] ages. Amen!