To the chief musician. A Psalm of David. A Song. God rises up and His enemies are scattered; and those who hate Him flee from His face.
As smoke is driven away, You drive them away; as wax melts before the fire, the wicked perish in God's presence.
But the righteous are glad; they shout for joy before God; yea, they exult with gladness.
Sing to God, sing praise to His name; lift up for Him who rides in the deserts; by His name Jehovah; yea, exult in His presence.
In His holy dwelling God is a father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows.
God causes the lonely to live at home; He brings out those who are bound with chains, while the rebellious dwell in a dry land .
O God, when You marched before Your people, when You walked on through the wilderness. Selah.
The earth shook, and the heavens dropped before God, this Sinai before God, the God of Israel.
O God, You sent down a shower of plenty, by which You upheld Your inheritance when it was weary.
Your flock lived in it. You, O God, have prepared for the poor in Your goodness.
Jehovah gave the word; the bearers of it were a great army.
Kings of armies fled, they ran away; yea, she who stayed home has divided the plunder.
When you lie among the sheepfolds, the wings of a dove are covered with silver, and its feathers with gleaming gold.
When the Almighty scatters kings in it, it snows on Mount Salmon.
The mountain of Bashan is God's mountain; the Bashan range is a mountain of peaks.
Why do you gaze in envy, O mountain range, at the mountain God desired for His dwelling? Yea, Jehovah will dwell in it forever.
The chariots of God are myriads, thousands of changes, the Lord is among them, in Sinai, in the holy place.
You have gone up on high; You have led captivity captive; You have received gifts among men; yea, to dwell among the rebellious, O Jehovah God.
Blessed be the Lord: day by day He bears burdens for us, the God of our salvation. Selah.
Our God is the God of salvation; and to Jehovah the Lord are the issues of death.
Yea, God will crush the head of His enemies, the hairy crown of him who walks on in his guilt.
The Lord said, I will bring back from Bashan; I will bring back My people from the depths of the sea;
so that your foot may be dashed in the blood of your enemies, the tongue of your dogs in it.
They have seen Your processions, O God; the goings of my God, my King, in the holy place.
The singers went before, then the musicians came; among them were the virgins playing the timbrels.
O bless God in the congregations, the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.
There is little Benjamin their ruler; the leaders of Judah in their crowd, and the leaders of Zebulun, the leaders of Naphtali.
Your God has commanded your strength; O God, be strong, in this that You have worked out for us.
Because of Your temple over Jerusalem, kings shall bring a present to You.
Oh rebuke the wild beasts of the reeds, the herd of bulls, with the calves of the peoples, trampling down with pieces of silver. He scatters the people who delight in war.
Let nobles be brought out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall run up her hands to God.
Sing to God, kingdoms of the earth, praises to the Lord. Selah.
To Him who rides on the heavens of heavens of old; lo, He sends out His voice, a mighty voice.
Ascribe strength to God over Israel; His majesty and His strength in the skies.
O God, You are awesome out of Your holy places; the God of Israel is He who gives strength and powers to the people. Blessed be God!