And the people were evil, as those complaining in the ears of Jehovah. And Jehovah heard, and His anger glowed, and the fire of Jehovah burned among them and devoured in the extreme edge of the camp.
And the people cried to Moses, and Moses prayed to Jehovah, and the fire was quenched.
And he called the name of that place Taberah, because the fire of Jehovah burned among them.
And the mixed multitude among them lusted with a great lust; and the sons of Israel also turned back and wept, and said, Who shall cause us to eat flesh?
We remember the fish that we ate in Egypt for nothing; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic;
and now our soul withers. There is nothing except this manna before our eyes.
And the manna was like coriander seed, and its look like the look of bdellium resin gum.
And the people went around and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in a pan, and made it into cakes. And its taste was like the taste of fresh oil.
And when the dew came down on the camp by night, the manna came down on it.
And Moses heard the people weeping by its families, each at the door of his tent; and the anger of Jehovah glowed exceedingly, and in the eyes of Moses it was evil.
And Moses said to Jehovah, Why have You done evil to Your servant; and why have I not found grace in Your eyes to put the burden of all this people on me?
I, have I conceived all this people? I, have I begotten it, that You say to me, Carry it in your bosom as the foster father bears the suckling, to the land which You have sworn to its fathers?
Where shall I get flesh to give to all this people? For they weep to me, saying, Give to us flesh that we may eat.
I am not able, I alone, to bear all this people, for it is too heavy for me;
and if You deal thus with me, please quickly kill me, if I have found grace in Your eyes, and let me not look on my affliction.
And Jehovah said to Moses, assemble to Me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you have known that they are elders of the people, and its officers. And you shall take them to the tabernacle of the congregation; and they shall station themselves there with you.
And I shall come down and speak with you there; and I will take of the spirit which is upon you, and will put it on them; and they will bear the burden of the people with you, that you may not bear it yourself alone.
And you shall say to the people, Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow, and you shall eat flesh. For you have wept in the ears of Jehovah, saying, Who shall give us flesh, for we had good in Egypt? And Jehovah shall give flesh to you, and you shall eat.
You shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days;
but to a month of days, until it comes out of your nostrils, and it shall become to you a loathsome thing; because you have loathed Jehovah, who is in your midst, and weep before Him, saying, Why is it that we have come out of Egypt?
And Moses said, The people in whose midst I am are six hundred thousand footmen; and You, You have said, I shall give flesh to them, and they shall eat a month of days.
Shall flock and herd be slaughtered for them, so one may find for them? Ar all the fish in the sea to be gathered for them, that one may find for them?
And Jehovah said to Moses, Is the hand of Jehovah shortened? Now you shall see whether My word shall come to pass to you or not.
And Moses went out and spoke to the people the words of Jehovah and gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and caused them to stand around the tabernacle.
And Jehovah came down in the cloud and spoke to him, and took of the spirit which was on him, and put it on the seventy men of the elders. And it happened, as the spirit rested on them, that they prophesied, but they did not continue.
And two of the men were left in the camp, the name of the one being Eldad, and the name of the second Medad; and the spirit rested on them, and they were among those written, but did not go out to the tabernacle And they prophesied in the camp.
And a young man ran and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.
And Joshua the son of Nun, minister to Moses, of his young men, answered and said, My lord Moses, stop them.
And Moses said to him, Are you jealous for my sake? Oh that all Jehovah's people were prophets, that Jehovah would put His spirit on them!
And Moses withdrew into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
And a wind went forth from Jehovah and cut off quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, as a day's journey here, and as a day's journey there, all around the camp, and about two cubits above the face of the land.
And the people rose up all that day, and all that night, and the day after, and gathered the quails; he who had least had gathered ten homers. And they spread them out for themselves around the camp.
The flesh was yet between their teeth, it was not yet cut off, and the anger of Jehovah glowed among the people. And Jehovah struck among the people with a very great plague.
And one called the name of that place, The Graves of Lust; for there they buried the people who lusted.
From the Graves of Lust the people pulled up to go to Hazeroth, and they remained in Hazeroth.