And it came to pass, after many days, that, the word of Yahweh, came unto Elijah, in the third year, saying,—Go, shew thyself unto Ahab, that I may send rain upon the face of the ground.
And Elijah went, to show himself unto Ahab. Now, the famine, was severe in Samaria.
And Ahab had called for Obadiah, who was over his house. Now, Obadiah, was one who revered Yahweh, exceedingly.
And so it came to pass, when Jezebel was cutting off the prophets of Yahweh, that Obadiah took a hundred prophets, and hid them by fifties in caves, and sustained them, with bread and water.
So then Ahab said unto Obadiah, Go, and let us pass throughout the land, unto all the fountains of water, and unto all the ravines, peradventure we may find grass, and save alive horse and mule, and not have more of the beasts cut off.
So they divided to them the land, to pass through it,—Ahab, went one way, by himself, and, Obadiah, went another way, by himself.
And so it was, as Obadiah was on the road, that lo! Elijah, met him,—and he recognised him, and fell upon his face, and said—Now art, thou, my lord Elijah?
And he said to him—I, am! Go, say to thy lord: Here, is, Elijah!
And he said—How have I sinned,—that, thou, art delivering thy servant into the hand of Ahab, to put me to death?
By the life of Yahweh thy God, there is no nation or kingdom, whither my lord hath not sent to seek thee, and, when they have said—Nay! he hath taken an oath of the kingdom or the nation, that no one could find thee;
and, now, thou, art saying,—Go say to thy lord, Here, is, Elijah;
so shall it come to pass, as soon as, I, go from thee, that, the spirit of Yahweh, shall carry thee away—whither I know not, and so, when I go in to tell Ahab, and he cannot find thee, then will he slay me,—and yet, thy servant, hath revered Yahweh, from my youth.
Was it not told my lord, what I did when Jezebel was slaying the prophets of Yahweh,—how I hid, of the prophets of Yahweh, a hundred men—by fifties—in caves, and sustained them with bread and water?
and yet, now, thou, art saying, Go, tell thy lord—Here, is, Elijah; and so he will slay me!
Then said Elijah—By the life of Yahweh of hosts, before whom I stand, to-day, will I show myself unto him.
So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him,—and, Ahab, went to meet, Elijah.
And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Now, art, thou, troubling Israel?
And he said—I have not troubled Israel, but, thou and the house of thy father,—in that ye have forsaken the commandments of Yahweh, and followed Baal.
Now, therefore, send, gather unto me all Israel, unto Mount Carmel,—and the prophets of Baal, four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the Sacred Stem, four hundred, who do eat at the table of Jezebel.
So Ahab sent among all the sons of Israel,—and gathered the prophets unto Mount Carmel.
And Elijah drew near unto all the people, and said—How long are ye limping on the two divided opinions? If, Yahweh, be GOD, follow, him, but, if, Baal, follow, him. But the people answered him, not a word.
Then said Elijah unto the people—I, am left, Yahweh’s, only, prophet,—but, the prophets of Baal, are four hundred and fifty men.
Let there be given us, therefore, two bullocks, and let them choose for themselves one bullock, and cut it in pieces, and lay it upon the wood, but, fire, shall they not put,—then, I, will make ready the other bullock, and place upon the wood, but, fire, will I not put.
Then shall ye call on the name of your god, and, I, will call on the name of Yahweh, and it shall be, the God that respondeth by fire, he, is GOD. And all the people responded—Well spoken!
Then said Elijah to the prophets of Baal—Choose for yourselves one bullock, and make ye ready, first, for, ye, are many,—and call ye on the name of your god, but, fire, shall ye not put.
So they took the bullock which was given them, and made ready, and called on the name of Baal—from the morning even until the noon, saying—O Baal! answer us. But them was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped about by the altar which had been made.
And it came to pass, at noon, that Elijah mocked them, and said—Cry with a loud voice, for, a god, he is, either he hath, a meditation, or an occasion to retire, or he hath, a journey,—peradventure, he, sleepeth, and must be awaked.
And they cried, with a loud voice, and cut themselves, after their custom, with swords, and with lances,—until the blood gushed out upon them.
And so it was, when noon was passed, that although they prophesied until the offering up of the evening gift, yet was there no voice nor any that answered, nor any that hearkened.
Then said Elijah unto all the people: Draw near unto, me. And all the people drew near unto, him. Then repaired he the broken-down altar of Yahweh; yea Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob,—
unto whom the word of Yahweh came, saying—Israel, shall be thy name;
and built, with the stones, an altar, in the name of Yahweh,—and he made a trench, as large as would contain two measures of seed, round about the altar;
and he put in order the wood,—and cut in pieces the bullock, and laid upon the wood. Then said he—Fill four pitchers with water, and pour out upon the ascending-sacrifice, and upon the wood. And they did so.
And he said—Do it the second time. And they did it the second time. And he said—Do it the third time. And they did it the third time.
And the water ran round about the altar,—moreover also, the trench, filled he with water.
And it came to pass, at the time of the offering of the gift, that Elijah the prophet drew near, and said, O Yahweh, God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel! To-day, let it be known—That, thou, art God in Israel, and that, I, am thy servant,—and that, by thy word, have I done all these things.
Answer me, O Yahweh! answer me, That this people may know, that, thou—Yahweh, art GOD,—so shalt, thou thyself, have turned their heart back again.
Then fell fire from Yahweh, and consumed the ascending-sacrifice, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust,—even the water that was in the trench, it licked up.
And, when all the people saw it, they fell upon their faces,—and said, Yahweh, he, is GOD, Yahweh, he, is GOD.
And Elijah said unto them—Seize ye the prophets of Baal—let not, a man, of them escape. So they seized them. And Elijah took them down unto the ravine of Kishon, and slaughtered them there.
Then said Elijah unto Ahab, Go up, eat and drink,—for there is a sound of a downpour of rain.
So Ahab went up, to eat and to drink,—but, Elijah, went up to the top of Carmel, and bowed himself to the earth, and put his face between his knees.
Then said he unto his young man—Go up, I pray thee, and look about in the direction of the sea. So he went up, and looked about, and said—There is, nothing whatever. Then said he—Go again, seven times.
And it came to pass, at the seventh time, that he said, Lo! a little cloud, like a man’s hand coming up from the sea. Then he said—Go up, say unto Ahab—Harness, and get thee down, lest the rain shut thee in.
And it came to pass, meanwhile, that, the heavens, had enshrouded themselves with clouds and wind, and there came a great rain, and Ahab rode, and went to Jezreel;
but, the hand of Yahweh, came upon Elijah, so he girded his loins,—and ran before Ahab, until thou enterest Jezreel.