Now at the same time Peter and John were going up into the temple, at the hour of prayer, the ninth.
And a certain man, being lame from his mother's belly, was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, called Beautiful, to ask charity from those who entered into the temple,
who, having seen Peter and John intending to go into the temple, asked charity.
And Peter, having gazed intently at him, with John, said, Look at us.
And he gave attention to them expecting to receive something from them.
But Peter said, No silver and gold exists to me, but what I have, this I give thee. In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, rise up and walk.
And after taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up. And immediately his feet and his ankles were strengthened.
And leaping up, he stood and walked. And he entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
and they recognized him, that this was the man who sat for charity at the Beautiful Gate of the temple. And they were filled of astonishment and amazement at that which happened to him.
And as the lame man who was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch that is called Solomon's, amazed.
And Peter having seen, he responded to the people, Men, Israelites, why do ye marvel at this man? Or why do ye stare at us, as by our own power or piety we have made him to walk?
The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his Boy Jesus, whom ye actually delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate who preferred to release that man.
But ye denied the Holy and Righteous, and asked for a man, a murderer to be granted to you.
And ye killed the Pathfinder of life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And by faith in his name, this man whom ye see and know, his name has made strong. And faith through him has given him this complete soundness in the presence of you all.
And now, brothers, I know that ye did it from ignorance, as also your rulers.
But this way God fulfilled what things were foretold, through the mouth of all his prophets, the Christ was to endure.
Repent ye therefore, and be converted in order to wipe away your sins, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord.
And he may send Christ Jesus who has been pre-ordained for you,
whom heaven must indeed receive until the times of restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of all his holy prophets from the age.
For Moses indeed said to the fathers, The Lord our God will raise up a prophet for you, from your brothers, like me. Ye shall hear him in all things, as many as he might speak to you.
And every soul, whichever it will be, if it will not hear that prophet will be utterly destroyed from the people.
And also all the prophets from Samuel and those in succession, as many as spoke, also proclaimed these days.
Ye are sons of the prophets, and of the covenant that God made for our fathers, saying to Abraham, And in thy seed all the patriarchies of the earth will be blessed.
To you first, having raised up his Boy Jesus, God sent him blessing you, in turning away each man from your evils.