Send the lamb to the ruler of the land from the rock of the desert to the mount of the daughter of Zion.
For it shall be as a fleeing bird cast out of the nest, the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon.
Take counsel, do judgment; make your shadow as the night in the midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; do not betray the fugitive.
Let my outcasts dwell with you, Moab; be a shelter to them from the face of the destroyer; for the extortioner is at an end, the spoiler ceases, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.
And in mercy the throne shall be established; and he shall sit on it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging and seeking judgment, and speeding righteousness.
We have heard of the pride of Moab; very proud; even of his vanity, and his pride, and his rage; not so are his babblings.
So Moab shall howl for Moab, everyone shall howl. All of it shall howl for the foundations of Kir-hareseth; surely they are stricken.
For Heshbon's fields droop, the vine of Sibmah. The lords of the nations have crushed its choice plants, they have come to Jazer, they wander in the desert; her branches are stretched out, they have crossed the sea.
On account of this I will weep with the weeping of Jazer, the vine of Sibmah. I will water you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh; for the shouting has fallen on your fruit and on your harvest.
And gladness and joy are gathered out of the plentiful field; and in the vineyards there is no singing and no shouting. The treader shall tread out no wine in the presses; I have made their shouting to cease.
Therefore my belly shall sound like a harp for Moab, and my bowels for Kir-hareseth.
And it shall be when it is seen that Moab is weary on the high place, he shall come to his sacred place to pray; but he shall not be able.
This is the word that the LORD has spoken to Moab since that time.
But now the LORD has spoken, saying, Within three years, as the years of a hireling, and the glory of Moab shall be abased with all that great host and the remnant few; small, not mighty.