Who is this coming in from Edom With bright-red garments, from Bozrah? This made splendid in his raiment, Marching on in the greatness of his strength? I, speaking in righteousness, Mighty to save.
Wherefore is there red, on thy raiment,—And thy garments as of one treading in a wine-trough?
A winepress, have I trodden, alone, And of the peoples, there was no man with me. So I trod them down in mine anger, And trampled upon them, in mine indignation,—And their life-blood besprinkled my garments, And all mine apparel, I defiled;
For, a day of avenging, was in my heart, And the year of my redeemed, had come.
Therefore looked I around, and there was none to help,—And I was astonished that there was none to uphold,—So, mine own arm brought me salvation, And mine indignation, the same upheld me;
Then trod I down peoples in mine anger, And make them drunk with mine indignation, And brought down to the earth their life-blood.
The lovingkindness of Yahweh, will I recall the praises of Yahweh, According to all that Yahweh hath bestowed upon us,—Even the abundance of goodness to the house of Israel, Which he bestowed upon them—According to his compassions and According to the abundance of his lovingkindness.
Therefore he said—Surely my people, they are, Sons, they will not act falsely! So he became their saviour.
In all their affliction, he, was afflicted And the messenger of his presence saved them, In his love and in his pity, he, redeemed them,—And then lifted them up and carried them all the days of the age-past time.
But, they, rebelled, and grieved his Holy Spirit,—And so he turned against them as an enemy, he himself, fought against them.
Then were recalled the days of the age-past time Moses—his people:—Where is he that led them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he that put within him his Holy Spirit?
That caused to go at the right hand of Moses his own majestic arm,—Cleaving the waters from before them, To make himself an age-abiding name:
Causing them to go through the roaring deeps,—Like a horse through the wilderness, That they should not stumble?
As a beast, into the valley, goeth down, The Spirit of Yahweh, causeth him to rest, So, didst thou lead thy people, To make thyself a majestic name!
Look thou down, out of the heavens and see, Out of the high abode of thy holiness and of thy majesty,—Where are thy jealousy, and thy mighty deeds? The resounding of thy yearning affection, and thy compassions towards me, are they restrained?
For, thou, art our father, Though, Abraham, knew us not, And Israel could not acknowledge us,—Thou, O Yahweh, art our father, Our Redeemer from the Age-past time, is thy name.
Wherefore shouldst thou suffer us to wander O Yahweh, from thy ways? Wherefore shouldst thou let us harden our heart past revering thee? Return thou for the sake of Thy servants, The tribes thou thyself hast inherited.
For a short time only, did thy holy people hold possession,—Our adversaries, trod down thy sanctuary!
We have become like those Over whom from age-past times, thou hast not ruled, Who have never been called by thy name!