But as to the times and the moments, there is no need, Brothers, for any one to write to you.
You yourselves know well that the Day of the Lord will come just as a thief comes in the night.
When people are saying ‘All is quiet and safe,’ it is then that, like birth-pains upon a woman with child, Ruin comes suddenly upon them, and there will be no escape!
You, however, Brothers, are not in darkness, that the daylight should take you by surprise as if you were thieves.
For you all are ‘Sons of Light’ and ‘Sons of the Day.’   We have nothing to do with night, or darkness.
Therefore let us not sleep as others do. No, let us be watchful and self-controlled.
It is at night that men sleep, and at night that drunkards get drunk.
But let us, who belong to the Day, control ourselves, and put on faith and love as a breast plate, and the hope of Salvation as a helmet.
For God destined us, not for Wrath, but to win Salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us,
that, whether we are still watching or have fallen asleep, we may live with him.
Therefore encourage one another, and try to build up one another’s characters, as indeed you are doing.
We beg you, Brothers, to value those who toil among you, and are your leaders in the Lord’s service, and give you counsel.
Hold them in the very greatest esteem and affection for the sake of their work. Live at peace with one another.
We entreat you also, Brothers — warn the disorderly, comfort the faint-hearted, give a helping hand to the weak, and be patient with every one.
Take care that none of you ever pays back wrong for wrong, but always follow the kindest course with one another and with every one.
Always be joyful;
never cease to pray;
under all circumstances give thanks to God. For this is his will for you as made known in Christ Jesus.
Do not quench the Spirit;
do not make light of preaching.
Bring everything to the test; cling to what is good;
shun every form of evil.
May God himself, the giver of peace, make you altogether holy; and may your spirits, souls, and bodies be kept altogether faultless until the Coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
He who calls you will not fail you; he will complete his work.
Brothers, pray for us.
Greet all the Brothers with a sacred kiss.
I adjure you in the Lord’s name to have this letter read to all the Brethren.
May the blessing of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.