And when they drew near to Jerusalem, as far as Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
and said to them: Go into the village opposite you; and as soon as you enter it, you will find a colt tied, on which no man ever sat. Loose him and bring him.
And if any say to you: Why are you doing this? say that the Lord has need of him; and he will immediately send him hither.
And they went and found the colt tied near the door without, in the street. And they loosed him.
And some of those who were standing there, said to them: Why are you loosing the colt?
And they said to them as Jesus had commanded; and they gave them permission.
And they brought the colt to Jesus, and put their mantles upon him, and he sat on him.
And many spread their mantles in the road, and others cut branches from the trees, and spread them in the road.
And those who went before, and those who followed after, cried, saying: Hosanna. Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord.
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest.
And Jesus entered Jerusalem, and went into the temple; and when he had looked around on all things, the hour being now late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve.
And on the morrow, as they were coming from Bethany, he was hungry;
and he saw at a distance a fig-tree that had leaves; and he went, if perhaps he might find any thing on it. And when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for it was not the time for figs.
And he answered and said to it: No more may any one ever eat fruit from you. And his disciples heard it.
And they came into Jerusalem; and Jesus entered the temple, and began to drive out those who sold, and those who bought in the temple; and he overturned the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of those who sold doves.
And he suffered no one to carry a vessel through the temple.
And he taught, saying to them: Is it not written, My house shall be called the house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of robbers.
And the scribes and the chief priests heard him; and they sought how they might destroy him; for they feared him, because all the multitude were astonished at his teaching.
And when evening had come, he went out of the city.
And in the morning, as they were passing by, they saw the fig-tree withered from the roots.
And Peter, calling his words to mind, said to him: Rabbi, see! the fig-tree which thou didst curse has withered.
And Jesus answered and said to them: Have faith in God.
For, verily I say to you, that whoever will say to this mountain, Be removed, and be cast into the sea, and will not doubt in his heart, but believe that what he says will come to pass, he shall have whatever he says.
For this reason I say to you: All things that you ask for in prayer, believe that you will receive them, and they shall be yours.
And when you stand praying, forgive, if you have any thing against any one, that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your offenses.
But if you do not forgive, your Father who is in heaven will not forgive your offenses.
And they came again into Jerusalem; and as he was walking in the temple, there came to him the chief priests and the scribes and the elders,
and said to him: By what authority do you these things? and who gave you this authority to do these things?
And Jesus answered and said to them: I also will ask you one thing, and if you answer me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things.
Was the immersion of John from heaven, or from men? answer me.
And they reasoned with themselves, saying: If we say, From heaven, he will reply, Why, then, did you not believe him?
But if we say, From men, they feared the people; for all regarded John as a prophet indeed.
And they answered and said to Jesus: We do not know. And Jesus answering, said to them: Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.