And I saw that the Lamb opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four living creatures saying like the sound of thunder, Come and see.
And behold, a white horse, and he who sits on it having a bow. And a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering, and so that he might conquer.
And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come.
And another horse came forth, fiery red. And it was given to him (to him who sits on it) to take peace from the earth, so that they would kill each other. And a great sword was given to him.
And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come and see. And behold, a black horse, and he who sits on it having a balance in his hand.
And I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A measure of wheat for a denarius, and three measures of barley for a denarius. And thou may not harm the olive oil and the wine.
And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the fourth living creature saying, Come and see.
And behold, a green horse, and he who sits on top of it. His name was Death, and Hades followed with him. And authority was given to him over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with starvation, and with what is deadly, and by the beasts of the earth.
And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been killed because of the word of God, and because of the testimony of the Lamb that they held.
And they cried out in a great voice, saying, Master, Holy and True, how long do thou not judge and avenge our blood from those who dwell on the earth?
And a white robe was given to them each, and it was said to them that they should still rest a time, until also their fellow bondmen, and their brothers, and those going to be killed as they too, would be fulfilled.
And I looked when he opened the sixth seal, and a great earthquake occurred, and the sun became black as hairy sackcloth, and the whole moon became as blood.
And the stars of the sky fell to the earth as a fig tree that casts its unripe figs being shaken by a great wind.
And the sky departed as a scroll being rolled up. And every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
And the kings of the earth, and the rulers, and the chief captains, and the rich, and the strong, and every bondman and freeman, hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains.
And they say to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb.
Because the great day of his wrath has come, and who is able to stand?