Is there not a warfare to a mortal, upon earth? And, as the days of a hireling, are not his days?
As, a bondman, panteth for the shadow, and as, a hireling, longeth for his wage,
So, have I been made to inherit months of calamity, and, nights of weariness, have been appointed me.
As soon as I lie down, I say, When shall I arise? yet he lengtheneth out the evening, and I am wearied with tossings until the breeze of twilight.
My flesh is clothed with worms and a coating of dust, My skin, hath hardened, and then run afresh:
My days, are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle, and they are spent, without hope.
Remember thou, that, a wind, is my life, not again shall mine eye see blessing:
Nor shall see me—the eye that used to behold me, Thine eyes, are upon me, and I am not.
A cloud faileth, and is gone, So, he that descendeth to hades, shall not come up:
He shall not return again to his house, and his own place shall be acquainted with him no more.
I also, cannot restrain my mouth,—I must speak, in the anguish of my spirit, I must find utterance, in the bitterness of my soul.
Am, I, a sea, or a sea-monster,—That thou shouldst set over me a watch?
When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall help to carry my complaint,
Then thou scarest me with dreams, and, by visions, dost thou terrify me:
So that my soul chooseth strangling, Death, rather than [these] my bones!
I am wasted away, Not, to times age-abiding, can I live, Let me alone, for, a breath, are my days.
What is a mortal, that thou shouldst nurture him? Or that thou shouldst fix upon him thy mind?
That thou shouldst inspect him morning by morning, moment by moment, shouldst test him?
How long wilt thou not look away from me? Wilt thou not let me alone, till I can swallow my spittle?
I have sinned, What can I do for thee, thou watcher of men? Wherefore hast thou set me as thine object of attack, or have I become, unto thee, a burden?
And why wilt thou not remove my transgression, and take away mine iniquity? For, now, in the dust, should I lie down, and thou shouldst seek me diligently, and I should not be.