For, behold, the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, takes away from Jerusalem and from Judah support and staff, the whole support of bread, and the whole support of water,
the mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and the diviner, and the elder,
the captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the counselor, and the expert craftsman, and the skilful enchanter.
And I will give sons to be their rulers, and babes shall rule over them.
And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbor. The child shall behave himself proudly against the old man, and the base against the honorable.
When a man shall take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying, Thou have clothing, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand,
in that day he shall lift up his voice, saying, I will not be a healer, for in my house is neither bread nor clothing. Ye shall not make me ruler of the people.
For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen, because their tongue and their doings are against Jehovah, to provoke the eyes of his glory.
The show of their countenance witnesses against them, and they declare their sin as Sodom; they do not hide it. Woe to their soul! For they have done evil to themselves.
Say ye of the righteous, that it is well, for they shall eat the fruit of their doings.
Woe to the wicked! It is ill with him, for what his hands have done shall be done to him.
As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, those who lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths.
Jehovah stands up to contend, and stands to judge the peoples.
Jehovah will enter into judgment with the elders of his people, and the rulers of it. It is ye who have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of a poor man is in your houses.
What do ye mean that ye crush my people, and grind the face of the poor? says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts.
Moreover Jehovah said, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with outstretched necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet,
therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and Jehovah will lay bare their secret parts.
In that day the Lord will take away the beauty of their anklets, and the hair nets, and the crescents,
the pendants, and the bracelets, and the mufflers,
the bonnets, and the ankle chains, and the sashes, and the perfume-boxes, and the amulets,
the rings, and the nose-jewels,
the festival robes, and the mantles, and the shawls, and the satchels,
the hand-mirrors, and the fine linen, and the turbans, and the veils.
And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet spices there shall be rottenness, and instead of a girdle, a rope, and instead of well set hair, baldness, and instead of a robe, a girding of sackcloth, branding instead of beauty.
Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war.
And her gates shall lament and mourn, and she shall be desolate and sit upon the ground.