Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the command of God our Savior, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, our hope,
to Timothy, my own son in the faith. Grace, mercy and peace from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.
Even as I begged you to remain at Ephesus, when I was going to Macedonia, that you might charge some that they teach no other doctrine,
nor to give heed to fables and endless genealogies (which provide doubts rather than a stewardship of God in faith).
But the end of the commandment is love out of a pure heart, and a good conscience, and faith unfeigned,
from which some, having swerved, have turned aside to foolish talking,
desiring to be teachers of the law, neither understanding what they say nor that which they affirm.
But we know that the law is good if a man uses it lawfully,
knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous one, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
for fornicators, for homosexuals, for slave-traders, for liars, for perjurers, and anything else that is contrary to sound doctrine,
according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust.
And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who strengthened me, because He counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry--
the one who before was a blasphemer and a persecutor and insolent. But I obtained mercy, because being ignorant, I did it in unbelief.
And the grace of our Lord was exceedingly abundant, with faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Faithful is the Word and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
But for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all long-suffering, as a pattern to those being about to believe on Him to life everlasting.
Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
This charge I commit to you, my son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before about you, in order that you might war a good warfare by them,
holding faith and a good conscience, which some have put away and made shipwreck as to faith.
Among these are Hymeneus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan so that they may learn not to blaspheme.