LET as many slaves as are under the yoke account their own masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and the doctrine be not blasphemed.
But they who have believing masters, let them not think less of them, because they are brethren; but serve them the rather, because they are faithful and beloved, who have equally partaken of the benefit. These things teach and enjoin.
If any man teach another doctrine, and attend not to the sound words, which are those of Jesus Christ our Lord, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness;
he is conceited, knowing nothing, but delirious with disputes and quarrels about words, from whence come wrath, contentions, evil speakings, wrong suspicions,
perverse wranglings of men corrupt in mind, and destitute of truth, who think to make gain of godliness; depart from such men.
But godliness with contentment is great gain.
For that we brought nothing into the world is evident, neither can we carry any thing out of it.
Having then food and raiment, let us be therewith content.
For they who will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful passions, which sink men in the abyss of destruction and perdition.
For the love of money is the root of all evils, which some coveting, have wandered away from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
But thou, O man of God, flee from these things; but pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.
Strain every nerve in the noble conflict of faith, lay fast hold on eternal life, unto which also thou hast been called, and hast confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
I conjure thee in the presence of God, who giveth life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who witnessed that noble confession before Pontius Pilate;
that thou observe this injunction spotless, irreproachable, unto the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ:
which in his own appointed times he will shew forth, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;
who alone possesseth immortality, inhabiting light inaccessible, whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom be honour and glory eternal. Amen.
Charge the rich in this world not to be lifted up with pride, nor to trust on the stability of wealth, but on the living God, who giveth us richly all things for our enjoyment;
to do good, to be rich in generous actions, to take pleasure in liberality, ready to distribute;
laying up treasure for themselves a noble foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.
O Timothy, guard the sacred deposit, avoiding profane trifling talk, and antitheses of misnamed science:
which some affecting have erred concerning the faith.   Grace be with thee.―Amen.   The first epistle was written from Laodicea, which is the metropolis of Phrygia Pacatiana. \p