All the commandments which I command you this day shall all of you observe to do, that all of you may live, and multiply, and go in and possess the land which the LORD swore unto your fathers.
And you shall remember all the way which the LORD your God led you these forty years in the wilderness, to humble you, and to prove you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments, or no.
And he humbled you, and suffered you to hunger, and fed you with manna, which you knew not, neither did your fathers know; that he might make you know that man does not live by bread only, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of the LORD does man live.
Your raiment waxed not old upon you, neither did your foot swell, these forty years.
You shall also consider in your heart, that, as a man chastens his son, so the LORD your God chastens you.
Therefore you shall keep the commandments of the LORD your God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him.
For the LORD your God brings you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills;
A land of wheat, and barley, and vines, and fig trees, and pomegranates; a land of oil olive, and honey;
A land wherein you shall eat bread without scarceness, you shall not lack any thing in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you may dig brass.
When you have eaten and are full, then you shall bless the LORD your God for the good land which he has given you.
Beware that you forget not the LORD your God, in not keeping his commandments, and his judgments, and his statutes, which I command you this day:
Lest when you have eaten and are full, and have built goodly houses, and dwelt therein;
And when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied;
Then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the LORD your God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage;
Who led you through that great and terrible wilderness, wherein were fiery serpents, and scorpions, and drought, where there was no water; who brought you forth water out of the rock of flint;
Who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers knew not, that he might humble you, and that he might prove you, to do you good at your latter end;
And you say in your heart, My power and the might of mine hand has got me this wealth.
But you shall remember the LORD your God: for it is he that gives you power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant which he swore unto your fathers, as it is this day.
And it shall be, if you do at all forget the LORD your God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you this day that all of you shall surely perish.
As the nations which the LORD destroys before your face, so shall all of you perish; because all of you would not be obedient unto the voice of the LORD your God.