These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.
It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.
As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the heart of kings is unsearchable.
Take away the dross from the silver, and there comes forth a vessel for the refiner.
Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.
Put not thyself forward in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men.
For it is better that it be said to thee, Come up here, than that thou should be put lower in the presence of the prince, whom thine eyes have seen.
Go not forth hastily to strive. What will thou do in the end of it when thy neighbor has put thee to shame?
Debate thy case with thy neighbor himself, and disclose not the secret of another,
lest he who hears it revile thee, and thine infamy turn not away.
A word fitly spoken is apples of gold in a network of silver.
An earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear.
As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, is a faithful messenger to those who send him, for he refreshes the soul of his masters.
Clouds and wind without rain, is he who boasts himself of his gifts falsely.
By long-suffering a ruler is persuaded, and a soft tongue breaks the bone.
Have thou found honey? Eat as much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled with it, and vomit it.
Let thy foot be seldom in thy neighbor's house, lest he be weary of thee, and hate thee.
A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.
Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.
As he who takes off a garment in cold weather, and vinegar upon soda, so is he who sings songs to a heavy heart.
If thine enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink.
For thou will heap coals of fire upon his head, and Jehovah will reward thee.
The north wind brings forth rain. So does a backbiting tongue, an angry countenance.
It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a contentious woman in a wide house.
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
A troubled fountain, and a corrupted spring, is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked.
It is not good to eat much honey, so for men to search out their own glory is grievous.
He whose spirit is without restraint is a city that is broken down and without walls.