In those days, the multitude being very great, and not having what they might eat, Jesus having summoned his disciples, he says to them,
I feel compassion toward the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and do not have what they might eat.
And if I send them away without food to their house, they will faint on the way, for some of them come from afar.
And his disciples answered him, From where will anyone be able to fill these men of loaves here in a desolate place?
And he questioned them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven.
And he commanded the crowd to sit down on the ground. And after taking the seven loaves, having given thanks, he broke in pieces, and gave to his disciples so that they might place before them. And they place before the crowd.
And they had a few small fishes. And having blessed them, he said to also place before them.
And they ate and were filled. And they took up seven hampers of surplus fragments.
And those who ate were about four thousand, and he sent them away.
And straightaway having entered into the boat with his disciples, he came into the parts of Dalmanutha.
And the Pharisees came forth, and began to dispute with him, seeking from him a sign from the sky, testing him.
And having sighed deeply in his spirit, he says, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I am telling you if a sign will be given to this generation.
And having left them, having entered again into a boat, he departed to the other side.
And they forgot to take loaves, and they did not have with them in the boat except one loaf.
And he commanded them, saying, Take heed, watch for the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod.
And they deliberated among each other, saying, We have no loaves.
And knowing it Jesus says to them, Why do ye deliberate because ye have no loaves? Do ye not yet perceive nor understand? Have ye your heart still hardened?
Having eyes, ye see not, and having ears, ye hear not? And do ye not remember?
When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments did ye take up? They say to him, Twelve.
And when the seven for the four thousand, how many hampers full of fragments did ye take up? And they said, Seven.
And he said to them, How do ye not understand?
And he comes to Bethsaida, and they bring a blind man to him, and call for him so that he might touch him.
And having taken the hand of the blind man, he led him outside of the village. And having spat on his eyes, having laid his hands upon him, he questioned him if he sees anything?
And having looked up, he said, The men that I see, I see as trees walking.
Then again he put his hands upon his eyes, and made him look up. And he was restored, and saw all men clearly.
And he sent him away to his house, saying, Thou may neither go into the village, nor may tell any man in the village.
And Jesus went forth, and his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he questioned his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am?
And they answered, saying, John the immerser, and others, Elijah, but others, one of the prophets.
And he says to them, But who do ye say that I am? And having answered, Peter says to him, Thou are the Christ.
And he chided them that they should tell no man about him.
And he began to teach them that it was necessary for the Son of man to suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and the chief priests, and the scholars, and be killed, and after three days to rise.
And he spoke the matter openly. And having taken him aside, Peter began to rebuke him.
But he, having turned around, and having looked on his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Go thee behind me, Satan, because thou think not the things of God, but the things of men.
And having called in the multitude with his disciples, he said to them, Whoever wants to follow behind me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever will lose his life because of me and the good news, this man will save it.
For what will it profit a man if he should gain the whole world, and forfeit his soul?
Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?
For whoever may be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of man will also be ashamed of him when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy agents.