But, seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain,—and, when he had taken a seat, his disciples came unto him;
and, opening his mouth, he began teaching them, saying:—
Happy, the destitute, in spirit; for, theirs, is the kingdom of the heavens;
Happy, they who mourn; for, they, shall be comforted:
Happy, the meek; for, they, shall inherit the earth:
Happy, they who hunger and thirst for righteousness; for, they, shall be filled:
Happy, the merciful; for, they, shall receive mercy:
Happy, the pure, in heart; for, they, shall, see God:
Happy, the peacemakers; for, they, shall be, called sons of God:
Happy, they who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake; for, theirs, is the kingdom of the heavens.
Happy, are ye, whensoever they may reproach you and persecute you, and say every evil thing against you, falsely, for my sake:
Rejoice and exult, because, your reward, is great in the heavens; for, so, persecuted they the prophets who were before you.
Ye, are the salt of the earth; but, if the salt become tasteless, wherewith shall it be salted? it is good, for nothing, any more, save, being cast out, to be trampled on by men.
Ye, are the light of the world: it is impossible for a city to be hid, on the top of a mountain, lying.
Neither light they a lamp, and place it under the measure; but upon the lampstand, and it giveth light to all that are in the house.
In like manner, let your light shine before men,—that they may see your good works,—and glorify your Father who is in the heavens.
Do not think, that I came to pull down the law, or the prophets,—I came not to pull down, but to fulfil.
For, verily, I say unto you, until the heaven and the earth shall pass away, one least letter, or one point, may in nowise pass away from the law, till all be accomplished.
Whosoever, therefore, shall relax one of these commandments, the least, and teach men so, shall be called, least, in the kingdom of the heavens; but, whosoever shall do and teach, the same, shall be called, great, in the kingdom of the heavens.
For I say unto you, that, unless your righteousness exceed that of the Scribes and Pharisees, in nowise, may ye enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Ye have heard, that it was said, to them of olden time,—Thou shalt not commit murder, and, whosoever shall commit murder, shall be, liable, to judgment.
But, I, say unto you, that, every one who is angry with his brother, shall be, liable, to judgment,—and, whosoever shall say to his brother, Worthless one!, shall be, liable, to the high council; and, whosoever shall say, Rebel!, shall be, liable, unto the fiery gehenna.
If, therefore, thou be bearing thy gift towards the altar, and, there, shouldst remember that, thy brother, hath aught against thee,
leave, there, thy gift before the altar, and withdraw,—first, be reconciled unto thy brother, and, then, coming, be offering thy gift.
Be making agreement with thine adversary, quickly, while thou art with him, in the way,—lest once thine adversary deliver thee up unto the judge, and the judge, unto the officer, and, into prison, thou be cast.
Verily, I say unto thee, In nowise, mayest thou come out from thence, until thou pay the last halfpenny.
Ye have heard, that it was said, Thou shalt not commit adultery:
But, I, say unto you, that, Every one who looketh on a woman so as to covet her, already, hath committed adultery with her, in his heart.
And, if, thy right eye, is causing thee to stumble, pluck it out, and cast it from thee,—for it profiteth thee, that, one of thy members, should perish, and not, thy whole body, be cast into gehenna.
And, if, thy right hand, is causing thee to stumble, cut it off, and cast it from thee,—for it profiteth thee, that, one of thy members, should perish, and not, thy whole body, into gehenna, depart.
It was said, moreover, Whosoever shall divorce his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement;
But, I, say unto you, that, Everyone who divorceth his wife—saving for unfaithfulness, causeth her to be made an adulteress,—[and, whosoever shall marry a divorced woman, committeth adultery].
Again, ye have heard that it was said, to them of olden time, Thou shalt not swear falsely,—but shalt render unto the Lord, thine oaths.
But, I, tell you—not to swear, at all: Neither by heaven, because it is the, throne of God,—
Nor by the earth, because it is his, footstool; nor by Jerusalem, because, it is the, city, of the Great King;
Nor, by thine own head, mayest thou swear, because thou art not able to make, one hair, white or black.
But let your word be, Yea, yea,—Nay, nay; and, what goeth beyond these, is, of evil.
Ye have heard, that it was said,—Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth.
But, I, tell you, not to resist evil,—Nay, whoever is smiting thee on the right cheek, turn to him, the other also;
And, him who is desiring thee to be judged, and to take, thy tunic, let him have, thy mantle also.
And, whoever shall impress thee one mile, go with him two:
To him who is asking thee, give; and, him who is desiring from thee to borrow, do not thou turn away.
Ye have heard, that it was said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.
But, I, say unto you, Be loving your enemies, and praying for them who are persecuting you:
That ye may become sons of your Father who is in the heavens: because, his sun, he maketh arise on evil and good, and sendeth rain, on just and unjust.
For, if ye love them that love you, what reward have ye? are not, even the tax-collectors, the same thing, doing?
And, if ye salute your brethren only, what, more than common, are ye doing? are not, even the nations, the same thing, doing?
Ye, therefore, shall become, perfect: as, your heavenly Father, is perfect.