I SAY then, Hath God rejected his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
God hath not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Know ye not what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession with God against Israel, saying,
“Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and digged down thine altars; and I only am left, and they seek my life.”
But what saith the oracle of God to him? “I have left to myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”
So then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace.
But if by grace, it is no more by works: otherwise grace is no more grace. But if by works, it is no more grace: otherwise work is no more work.
What then is the result? Israel hath not obtained that which it seeketh; but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded,
as it is written, “God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear; unto this present day.”
And David saith, “Let their table be for a snare, and for a trap, and for a stumbling-block, and for a recompence unto them:
let their eyes be blinded, that they may not see, and bow down their back continually.”
I say then, Have they stumbled so as to fall? God forbid: but by their stumbling salvation is come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
For if their stumbling is the riches of the world, and their diminution the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness?
For I address myself to you Gentiles; inasmuch as I am indeed the apostle of the Gentiles, I exalt my ministry:
if by any means I might provoke to jealousy my flesh, and save some of them.
For if the rejection of them is the reconciliation of the world, what shall their recovery be, but life from the dead?
Now if the first fruits be holy, so is the mass: and if the root be holy, so are the branches.
But if some of the branches have been broken off, and thou though a wild olive hast been grafted in among them, and become a partaker of the root and fatness of the olive tree;
boast not against the branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee.
Wilt thou say then, The branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in?
Admitted; by unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not high minded, but fear:
for if God spared not the native branches, tremble lest he spare not thee.
Behold therefore the kindness and severity of God: to those indeed who fell, severity; but unto thee, kindness, if thou continuest in that kindness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.
But they also, if they continue not in unbelief, shall be grafted in: for God is able to graft them in again.
For if thou hast been cut out of the naturally wild olive, and contrary to nature hast been grafted into the good olive: how much more shall these, which are native branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?
For I would not that you should be ignorant, brethren, of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness in part is come on Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in.
And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, “The Deliverer shall go forth out of Sion, and shalt turn away ungodliness from Jacob;
and this is my covenant with them, When I shall take away their sins.”
As concerning the gospel indeed, they are now enemies for your sakes: as concerning the election, they are beloved for the fathers’ sake.
For unchangeable are the gifts and the calling of God.
For as ye also in times past did not believe in God, but now have obtained mercy through their unbelief:
so also these now have not believed in your mercy, that they also might obtain mercy.
For God hath shut up all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all.
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and how incomprehensible his ways!
For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been admitted his counsellor?
Or who hath first given unto him, and it shall be repaid him again?
Because by him, and through him, and for him, are all things, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.