And Dauid spake the woordes of this song vnto the Lord, what time the Lord had deliuered him out of the handes of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul.
And he sayd, The Lord is my rocke and my fortresse, and he that deliuereth mee.
God is my strength, in him will I trust: my shielde, and the horne of my saluation, my hie tower and my refuge: my Sauiour, thou hast saued me from violence.
I will call on the Lord, who is worthy to be praysed: so shall I be safe from mine enemies.
For the pangs of death haue compassed me: the floods of vngodlinesse haue made mee afrayd.
The sorowes of the graue compassed mee about: the snares of death ouertooke mee.
But in my tribulation did I call vpon the Lord, and crie to my God, and he did heare my voyce out of his temple, and my crie did enter into his eares.
Then the earth trembled and quaked: the foundations of the heauens mooued and shooke, because he was angrie.
Smoke went out at his nostrels, and consuming fire out of his mouth: coles were kindled thereat.
He bowed the heauens also, and came downe, and darkenes was vnder his feete.
And he rode vpon Cherub and did flie, and hee was seene vpon the winges of the winde.
And hee made darkenesse a Tabernacle round about him, euen the gatherings of waters, and the cloudes of the ayre.
At the brightnesse of his presence the coles of fire were kindled.
The Lord thundred from heauen, and the most hie gaue his voyce.
He shot arrowes also, and scattered them: to wit, lightning, and destroyed them.
The chanels also of the sea appeared, euen the foundations of the worlde were discouered by the rebuking of the Lord, and at the blast of the breath of his nostrels.
He sent from aboue, and tooke me: hee drewe me out of many waters.
He deliuered me from my strong enemie, and from them that hated me: for they were too strong for me.
They preuented me in the day of my calamitie, but the Lord was my stay,
And brought me foorth into a large place: he deliuered me, because he fauoured me.
The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousnesse: according to the purenesse of mine handes he recompensed me.
For I kept the wayes of the Lord, and did not wickedly against my God.
For all his lawes were before me, and his statutes: I did not depart therefrom.
I was vpright also towarde him, and haue kept me from my wickednesse.
Therefore the Lord did reward me according to my righteousnesse, according to my purenesse before his eyes.
With the godly thou wilt shewe thy selfe godly: with the vpright man thou wilt shew thy selfe vpright.
With the pure thou wilt shewe thy selfe pure, and with the frowarde thou wilt shew thy selfe frowarde.
Thus thou wilt saue the poore people: but thine eyes are vpon the hautie to humble them.
Surely thou art my light, O Lord: and the Lord will lighten my darkenes.
For by thee haue I broken through an hoste, and by my God haue I leaped ouer a wall.
The way of God is vncorrupt: the word of the Lord is tryed in the fire: he is a shield to all that trust in him.
For who is God besides the Lord? and who is mightie, saue our God?
God is my strength in battel, and maketh my way vpright.
He maketh my feete like hindes feete, and hath set me vpon mine hie places.
He teacheth mine handes to fight, so that a bowe of brasse is broken with mine armes.
Thou hast also giuen me the shield of thy saluation, and thy louing kindnesse hath caused me to increase.
Thou hast inlarged my steppes vnder me, and mine heeles haue not slid.
I haue pursued mine enemies and destroyed them, and haue not turned againe vntill I had consumed them.
Yea, I haue consumed them and thrust them through, and they shall not arise, but shall fall vnder my feete.
For thou hast girded me with power to battell, and them that arose against me, hast thou subdued vnder me.
And thou hast giuen me the neckes of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate me.
They looked about, but there was none to saue them, euen vnto the Lord, but he answered them not.
Then did I beate them as small as the dust of the earth: I did treade them flat as the clay of the streete, and did spread them abroad.
Thou hast also deliuered me from the contentions of my people: thou hast preserued me to be the head ouer nations: the people which I knewe not, doe serue me.
Strangers shalbe in subiection to me: assoone as they heare, they shall obey me.
Strangers shall shrinke away, and feare in their priuie chambers.
Let the Lord liue, and blessed be my strength: and God, euen the force of my saluation be exalted.
It is God that giueth me power to reuenge me, and subdue the people vnder me,
And rescueth me from mine enemies: (thou also hast lift me vp from them that rose against me, thou hast deliuered me from the cruell man.
Therefore I will praise thee, O Lord amog the nations, and will sing vnto thy Name)
He is the tower of saluation for his King, and sheweth mercie to his anointed, euen to Dauid, and to his seede for euer.