For the Leader; a Psalm of the sons of Korah. Maschil.
O G-d, we have heard with our ears, our fathers have told us; a work Thou didst in their days, in the days of old.
Thou with Thy hand didst drive out the nations, and didst plant them in; Thou didst break the peoples, and didst spread them abroad.
For not by their own sword did they get the land in possession, neither did their own arm save them; but Thy right hand, and Thine arm, and the light of Thy countenance, because Thou wast favourable unto them.
Thou art my King, O G-d; command the salvation of Jacob.
Through Thee do we push down our adversaries; through Thy name do we tread them under that rise up against us.
For I trust not in my bow, neither can my sword save me.
But Thou hast saved us from our adversaries, and hast put them to shame that hate us.
In G-d have we gloried all the day, and we will give thanks unto Thy name for ever. Selah
Yet Thou hast cast off, and brought us to confusion; and goest not forth with our hosts.
Thou makest us to turn back from the adversary; and they that hate us spoil at their will.
Thou hast given us like sheep to be eaten; and hast scattered us among the nations.
Thou sellest Thy people for small gain, and hast not set their prices high.
Thou makest us a taunt to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.
Thou makest us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
All the day is my confusion before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me,
For the voice of him that taunteth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and the revengeful.
All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten Thee, neither have we been false to Thy covenant.
Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from Thy path;
Though Thou hast crushed us into a place of jackals, and covered us with the shadow of death.
If we had forgotten the name of our G-d, or spread forth our hands to a strange god;
Would not G-d search this out? For He knoweth the secrets of the heart.
Nay, but for Thy sake are we killed all the day; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.
Awake, why sleepest Thou, O L-rd? Arouse Thyself, cast not off for ever.
Wherefore hidest Thou Thy face, and forgettest our affliction and our oppression?
For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our belly cleaveth unto the earth.
Arise for our help, and redeem us for Thy mercy's sake.