And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Salome, had bought sweet spices so that they might come and anoint Him.
And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they came upon the tomb, the sun having risen.
And they said among themselves, Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us?
And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back, for it was very great.
And entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, clothed in a long white garment. And they were frightened.
And he said to them, Do not be frightened. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He is risen, He is not here. Behold the place where they laid Him.
But go tell His disciples and Peter that He goes before you into Galilee. There you will see Him, as He said to you.
And they went out quickly and fled from the tomb. For they trembled and were amazed. Neither did they say anything to anyone, for they were afraid.
And when Jesus had risen early the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom He had cast seven demons.
She went and told those who had been with Him, as they mourned and wept.
And those hearing that He lives, and was seen by her, they did not believe.
After that He appeared in another form to two of them, walking and going into the country.
And they went and told it to the rest. Neither did they believe those.
Afterward He appeared to the Eleven as they reclined. And He reproached their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen Him after He had risen.
And He said to them, Go into all the world, proclaim the gospel to all the creation.
He who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he who does not believe will be condemned.
And signs will follow to those believing these things: in My name they will cast out demons; they will speak new tongues;
they will take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it will not hurt them. They will lay hands on the sick, and they will be well.
Then indeed, after speaking to them, the Lord was taken up into Heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.
And going out, they proclaimed everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word by signs following.