And Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brothers the priests. And they built the Sheep Gate. They sanctified it and set up its doors. Even to the Tower of Meah they sanctified it, to the Tower of Hananeel.
And next to him the men of Jericho built. And next to him Zaccur the son of Imri built.
But the sons of Hassenaah built the Fish Gate, who laid its beams, and set up its doors, its locks and its bars.
And next to them Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son of Koz repaired. And next to them Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel repaired. And next to them Zadok the son of Baana repaired.
And next to them the Tekoites repaired. But their nobles did not put their necks to the work of their Lord.
And the Old Gate was repaired by Jehoiada the son of Paseah, and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah. They laid its beams, and set up its doors, and its locks, and its bars.
And next to them Melatiah of Gibeon repaired, and Jadon of Meron, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, to the throne of the governor Beyond the River.
And next to him Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the goldsmiths, repaired. And next to his hand Hananiah the son of one of the perfumers repaired. And they left Jerusalem safe to the Broad Wall.
And next to their hand Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, repaired.
And next to their hand Jedaiah the son of Harumaph repaired, even across from his house. And next to his hand Hattush the son of Hashabniah repaired.
Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hashub the son of Pahath-moab repaired the other piece, and the Tower of the Furnaces.
And next to his hand Shallum the son of Halohesh, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters repaired.
Hanun, and the dwellers of Zanoah, repaired the Valley Gate. They built it and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars, and a thousand cubits on the wall to the Dung Gate.
And the Dung Gate was repaired by Malchiah the son of Rechab, the ruler of part of Beth-haccerem. He built it, and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars.
And the Fountain Gate was repaired by Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of part of Mizpah. He built it and covered it, and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars, and the wall of the Pool of Shelah by the King's Garden, and to the stairs that go down from the City of David.
After him Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of the half part of Beth-zur, repaired in front of the Tombs of David, and to the pool that was made, and to the house of the mighty men.
After him the levites, Rehum the son of Bani repaired. On his hand Hashabiah the ruler of the half part of Keilah repaired in his part.
After him their brothers Bavai the son of Henadad, the ruler of the half part of Keilah, repaired.
And next to his hand Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another piece before the going up to the armory at the corner.
After him Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired the other piece from the corner to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest.
After him Meremoth the son of Urijah the son of Koz repaired another piece, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib.
And after him the priests, the men of the plain, repaired.
After them Benjamin and Hashub repaired across from their house. After them Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah repaired by his house.
After him Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another piece, from the house of Azariah to the corner, even to the tower.
Palal the son of Uzai repaired across from the corner, and the tower which sticks out from the king's high house, that was by the court of the prison. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh repaired .
And the temple-slaves lived in Ophel, across from the Water Gate toward the east, and the tower that sticks out.
After him the Tekoites repaired another piece, opposite the great tower that sticks out, even to the wall of Ophel.
The priests repaired from above the Horse Gate, each before his house.
After them Zadok the son of Immer repaired across from his house. After him Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper of the East Gate, repaired.
After him Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph repaired another piece. After him Meshullam the son of Berechiah repaired across from his room.
After him Malchiah the goldsmith's son repaired the place of the temple-slaves, and of the merchants, before the Miphkad Gate, and to the going up of the corner.
And between the going up of the corner to the Sheep Gate, the goldsmiths and the merchants repaired.