And, brothers, I was not able to speak to you as to spiritual ones, but as to fleshly ones, as to babes in Christ.
I gave you milk to drink, and not food, for you were not then able, but neither now are you yet able.
For you are yet fleshly. For where among you is jealousy, and strife, and divisions, are you not fleshly and walk according to man?
For when one may say, Truly I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos; are you not fleshly?
What then is Paul? And what Apollos, but ministers through whom you believed, and to each as the Lord gave?
I planted, Apollos watered, but God made to grow.
So as neither he planting is anything, nor he watering, but God making to grow.
So he planting and he watering are one, and each one will receive his own reward according to his own labor.
For we are fellow workers of God, a field of God, and you are a building of God.
According to God's grace given to me, as a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, but another builds on it . But let each one be careful how he builds.
For no one is able to lay any other foundation beside the One having been laid, who is Jesus Christ.
And if anyone builds on this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, straw,
the work of each will be revealed; for the Day will make it known, because it is revealed in fire; and the fire will prove the work of each, what sort it is.
If the work of anyone which he built remains, he will receive a reward.
If the work of anyone shall be consumed, he shall suffer loss; but he will be saved, but so as through fire.
Do you not know that you are a sanctuary of God, and the Spirit of God dwells in you?
If anyone corrupts the sanctuary of God, God will bring that one to corruption; for the sanctuary of God is holy, which you are.
Let no one deceive himself, if anyone thinks to be wise among you in this age, let him become foolish, that he may become wise.
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it has been written, "He takes the wise in their own craftiness." Job 5:13
And again, " The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are worthless." LXX-Psa. 93:11; MT-Psa. 94:11
So let no one glory in men; for all things are yours,
whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are yours,
and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.