Now there was a certain man in Cæsarea, named Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian band,
a devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, who did many acts of charity to the people, and prayed to God always.
He distinctly saw, in a vision, about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God coming in to him, and saying to him, Cornelius.
And having looked steadily on him, he was afraid, and said: What is it, Lord? He said to him: Your prayers and your charitable deeds have come up for a memorial before God.
And now send men to Joppa, and call for Simon, who is surnamed Peter;
he lodges with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea.
When the angel who spoke to him had departed, he called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier, one of those who waited on him,
and having made known all things to them, he sent them to Joppa.
And on the morrow, as they were going on their journey, and were drawing near to the city, Peter went up on the house-top to pray, about the sixth hour.
And he became very hungry, and desired to eat; but while they were making ready, he fell into a trance;
and he saw heaven opened, and some vessel, like a great sheet, descending, bound by the four corners, and let down to the earth.
In this were all kinds of four-footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts and creeping things and birds of the air.
And there came a voice to him: Rise, Peter, kill and eat.
But Peter said: By no means, Lord; for I have never eaten any thing common or unclean.
And the voice came to him again a second time: What God has cleansed, you must not call common.
This was done the third time; and the vessel was taken up again into heaven.
Now, while Peter was perplexed within himself about the meaning of the vision which he had seen, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius, having made inquiry for the house of Simon, stood before the gate.
And they called and asked whether Simon, who was surnamed Peter, lodged there.
While Peter was thinking of the vision, the Spirit said to him: Behold, three men ask for you:
arise then, and go down, and go with them without hesitation, for I have sent them.
And Peter came down to the men, and said: Behold, I am he whom you seek; what is the cause of your coming?
They replied: Cornelius the centurion, a just man, and one that fears God, and of good report among the whole nation of the Jews, was instructed by a holy angel to call you to his house, and to hear words from you.
Then he called them in, and lodged them.   On the morrow he arose, and went with them; and some of the brethren from Joppa accompanied him.
And on the next day, they entered Cæsarea And Cornelius was expecting them, and had called together his relatives and near friends.
And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and did him homage.
But Peter raised him up, saying: Stand up; I also am a man.
And; conversing with him, he went in, and found many that had come together.
And he said to them: You know that it is unlawful for a Jew to associate with one of another nation, or to go into his house. But God has showed me that I must not call any man common or unclean.
For this reason, when I was sent for, I came without making objection. I ask, therefore, for what purpose have you sent for me?
And Cornelius replied: Four days ago, I was fasting till this hour; and, at the ninth hour, I was praying in my house; and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
and said: Cornelius, your prayer is heard, and your deeds of charity are remembered before God.
Send, therefore, to Joppa, and call for Simon, who is surnamed Peter: he lodges in the house of Simon a tanner, by the sea; who, when he comes, will speak to you.
Therefore, I immediately sent to you; and you have done well in coming. Now, therefore, we are all here present before God, to hear all things that are given in charge to you by God.
And Peter opened his mouth, and said: In truth, I perceive that God is no respecter of persons;
but, in every nation, he that fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him.
The word which he sent to the sons of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ, (he is Lord of all,)
that word, you know, which was published through the whole of Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the immersion that John preached;
how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit, and with power; who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed by the devil; for God was with him.
And we are witnesses of all that he did, both in the country of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew by hanging him on a tree.
Him God raised up the third day, and caused him to appear,
not to all the people, but to witnesses who were before appointed by God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him, after he rose from the dead.
And he commanded us to preach to the people, and to testify that this is he who has been appointed by God as the judge of the living and the dead.
To him all the prophets bear testimony, that whoever believes on him shall receive remission of sins through his name.
While Peter was speaking these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all that heard the word.
And the believers that were of the circumcision, as many as had come with Peter, were astonished, because on the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Spirit:
for they heard them speaking with tongues, and magnifying God. Then Peter answered:
Can any one forbid the water, that these should not be immersed, who have received the Holy Spirit as well as we?
And he commanded them to be immersed in the name of the Lord. Then they besought him to remain some days.