Sons, hear the instruction of a father, and listen in order to know understanding.
For I give you good teaching; do not forsake my law.
For I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother.
He also taught me, and said to me, Let your heart hold fast my words, keep my commandments and live.
Get wisdom, get understanding; forget not; nor turn away from the words of my mouth.
Do not forsake her, and she shall keep you; love her, and she shall keep you.
Wisdom is the main thing; get wisdom; and with all your getting get understanding.
Prize her, and she shall lift you up; she shall bring you to honor when you embrace her.
She shall give to your hand an ornament of grace; she shall shield you with a crown of glory.
Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of your life shall be many.
I have taught you in the way of wisdom; I have led you in the right paths.
When you go, your steps shall not be narrowed, and when you run, you shall not stumble.
Take fast hold of instruction; do not let go; keep her; for she is your life.
Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not into the way of evil.
Avoid it; do not pass by it; turn from it, and pass on!
For they do not sleep, except when they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away unless they cause some to fall.
For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence.
But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shines more and more to the perfect day.
The way of the wicked is as darkness; they know not at what they stumble.
My son, listen to my words; bow down your ear to my sayings.
Let them not depart from your eyes; keep them in the midst of your heart.
For they are life to those who find them, and health to all his flesh.
Keep your heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life.
Put away from you a wicked mouth, and devious lips put far from you.
Let your eyes look right on, and let your eyelids look straight before you.
Ponder the path of your feet, and all your ways will be established.
Do not turn to the right hand nor to the left; remove your foot from evil.