Two days after was the passover and [the days] of unleavened bread; and the princes of the priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft, that they might kill him.
But they said, Not on the feast [day], lest there be an uproar of the people.
And he being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, sitting at the table, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard very precious; and breaking the alabaster, she poured [it] over his head.
And there were some that had indignation within themselves and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made?
For it might have been sold for more than three hundred denarius and given to the poor. And they murmured against her.
But Jesus said, Let her alone; why trouble ye her? She has wrought a good work on me.
For ye have the poor with you always, and whenever ye will, ye may do them good; but me ye have not always.
She has done what she could, for she has anticipated anointing my body for the burial.
Verily I say unto you, Wherever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, [this] also that she has done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her.
Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, came unto the princes of the priests to deliver him unto them.
And when they heard [it], they were glad and promised to give him money. And he sought how he might conveniently betray him.
And the first day [of the feast of] unleavened bread, when they sacrificed the passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and prepare that thou may eat the passover?
And he sends forth two of his disciples and said unto them, Go into the city, and a man shall meet you bearing a pitcher of water; follow him.
And wherever he shall go in, say to the husband of the house, The Master says, Where is the guestchamber where I shall eat the passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room furnished [and] prepared: there make ready for us.
And his disciples went forth and came into the city and found as he had said unto them, and they made ready the passover.
And in the evening he went with the twelve.
And when they sat at the table and ate, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, One of you who eats with me shall betray me.
And they began to be sorrowful and to say unto him one by one, [shall it be] I? and another [said, shall it be] I?
And he, answering, said unto them, [It is] one of the twelve, that dips with me in the dish.
The Son of man indeed goes, as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had never been born.
And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and, blessing it, broke [it] and gave to them and said, Take, eat: this is my body.
And taking the cup, having given thanks, he gave [it] to them; and they all drank of it.
And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many.
Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And when they had sung the hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said unto them, All ye shall be scandalized in me this night; for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered.
But after I have risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Then Peter said unto him, Although all be scandalized, yet I [will] not.
And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, [even] in this night, before the cock crows twice, thou shalt deny me three times.
But he spoke the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said the others.
And they come to the place which is named Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, Sit ye here while I pray.
And he takes with him Peter and James and John and began to be alarmed and to be anguished
and said unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death; tarry ye here, and watch.
And he went forward a little and fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.
And he said, Abba, Father, all things [are] possible unto thee; take away this cup from me; nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt.
And he came and found them sleeping and said unto Peter: Simon, sleepest thou? Could thou not watch one hour?
Watch ye and pray; enter not into temptation. The spirit truly [is] ready, but the flesh [is] sick.
And again he went away and prayed and spoke the same words.
And when he returned, he found them asleep again (for their eyes were heavy), nor did they know what to answer him.
And he came the third time and said unto them, Sleep on now and rest; it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into [the] hands of the sinners.
Rise up, let us go; behold, he that betrays me is at hand.
And immediately, while he yet spoke, Judas came, who was one of the twelve, and with him a multitude with swords and staves from the princes of the priests and of the scribes and of the elders.
And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him and lead [him] away securely.
And as soon as he was come, he went straightway to him and said, Master, Master, and kissed him.
And they laid their hands on him and took him.
And one of them that stood by drew a sword and smote the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
And Jesus, answering, said unto them, Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and [with] staves to take me?
I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not, but it is this way that the scriptures might be fulfilled.
And they all forsook him and fled.
And there followed him a certain young man having a linen cloth cast about [his] naked [body], and the young men laid hold on him,
and he left the linen cloth and fled from them naked.
And they brought Jesus to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the princes of the priests and the elders and the scribes.
But Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the high priest, and he was seated with the servants and warming himself at the fire.
And the princes of the priests and all the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death and found none.
For many bore false witness against him, but their witness did not agree together.
And there arose some that bore false witness against him, saying,
We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands.
But neither so did their witness agree together.
So the high priest, standing up in the midst, asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing [to what] these witness against thee?
But he was silent and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
And Jesus said unto him, I AM, and ye shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of the power [of God] and coming in the clouds of the heaven.
Then the high priest rent his clothes and said, What need have we any more for witnesses?
Ye have heard the blasphemy: what think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death.
And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to buffet him and to say unto him, Prophesy. And the servants struck him with the palms of their hands.
And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there came one of the maids of the high priest;
and when she saw Peter warming himself, looking upon him, said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth.
But he denied, saying, I know [him] not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew.
And the maid seeing him again began to say to those that stood by, This is [one] of them.
But he denied it again. And a little after, those that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art [one] of them, for thou art a Galilaean, and thy speech agrees [unto it].
And he began to curse and to swear, [saying], I do not know this man of whom ye speak.
And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the words that Jesus had said unto him, Before the cock crows twice, thou shalt deny me three times. And thinking on this, he wept.: