Then hee entred into a shippe, and passed ouer, and came into his owne citie.
And loe, they brought to him a man sicke of the palsie, laid on a bed. And Iesus seeing their faith, saide to the sicke of the palsie, Sonne, be of good comfort: thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
And beholde, certaine of the Scribes saide with themselues, This man blasphemeth.
But when Iesus saw their thoughts, he said, Wherefore thinke yee euil things in your hearts?
For whether is it easier to say, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee, or to say, Arise, and walke?
And that ye may knowe that the Sonne of man hath authoritie in earth to forgiue sinnes, (then saide he vnto the sicke of the palsie,) Arise, take vp thy bed, and goe to thine house.
And hee arose, and departed to his owne house.
So when the multitude sawe it, they marueiled, and glorified God, which had giuen such authoritie to men.
And as Iesus passed foorth from thence, hee sawe a man sitting at the custome, named Matthewe, and saide to him, Followe me. And he arose, and followed him.
And it came to passe, as Iesus sate at meate in his house, beholde, many Publicanes and sinners, that came thither, sate downe at the table with Iesus and his disciples.
And when the Pharises sawe that, they saide to his disciples, Why eateth your master with Publicanes and sinners?
Nowe when Iesus heard it, hee sayde vnto them, The whole neede not a Physition, but they that are sicke.
But goe yee and learne what this is, I will haue mercie, and not sacrifice: for I am not come to call the righteous, but the sinners to repentance.
Then came the disciples of Iohn to him, saying, Why doe we and the Pharises fast oft, and thy disciples fast not?
And Iesus saide vnto them, Can the children of the marriage chamber mourne as long as the bridegrome is with them? But the daies will come, when the bridegrome shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast.
Moreouer no man pieceth an olde garment with a piece of newe cloth: for that that should fill it vp, taketh away from the garment, and the breach is worse.
Neither doe they put newe wine into olde vessels: for then the vessels would breake, and the wine woulde be spilt, and the vessels shoulde perish: but they put new wine into newe vessels, and so are both preserued.
While hee thus spake vnto them, beholde, there came a certaine ruler, and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is nowe deceased, but come and laie thine hande on her, and shee shall liue.
And Iesus arose and followed him with his disciples.
(And beholde, a woman which was diseased with an issue of blood twelue yeres, came behinde him, and touched the hemme of his garment.
For shee saide in her selfe, If I may touche but his garment onely, I shalbe whole.
Then Iesus turned him about, and seeing her, did say, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole. And the woman was made whole at that same moment.)
Nowe when Iesus came into the Rulers house, and saw the minstrels and the multitude making noise,
He said vnto them, Get you hence: for the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorne.
And when the multitude were put foorth, hee went in and tooke her by the hande, and the maide arose.
And this bruite went throughout all that lande.
And as Iesus departed thence, two blinde men followed him, crying, and saying, O sonne of Dauid, haue mercie vpon vs.
And when hee was come into the house, the blinde came to him, and Iesus saide vnto them, Beleeue yee that I am able to doe this? And they sayd vnto him, Yea, Lord.
Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it vnto you.
And their eyes were opened, and Iesus gaue them great charge, saying, See that no man knowe it.
But when they were departed, they spread abroad his fame throughout all that land.
And as they went out, beholde, they brought to him a domme man possessed with a deuill.
And when the deuill was cast out, the domme spake: then the multitude marueiled, saying, The like was neuer seene in Israel.
But the Pharises saide, He casteth out deuils, through the prince of deuils.
And Iesus went about all cities and townes, teaching in their Synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the kingdome, and healing euery sickenesse and euery disease among the people.
But when he saw the multitude, he had compassion vpon them, because they were dispersed, and scattered abroade, as sheepe hauing no shepheard.
Then saide he to his disciples, Surely the haruest is great, but the labourers are fewe.
Wherefore pray the Lord of the haruest, that he woulde sende foorth labourers into his haruest.