And Elisha the prophet called to one of the sons of the prophets and said to him, Gird up your loins and take this vial of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead.
And you shall go there, and you shall see there Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi. And you shall go in and cause him to rise up from among his brothers. And you shall bring him to an inner room.
And take the vial of oil and pour on his head, and say, So says Jehovah, I have anointed you as king to Israel. And you shall open the door and flee, and shall not wait.
And the young man went, the servant of the prophet, to Ramoth-gilead.
And he came in; and, behold, the army commanders were sitting. And he said, I have a word to you, O commander. And Jehu said, To which of all of us? And he said, To you, O commander.
And he rose up and came into the house, and poured the oil on his head, and said to him, So says Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have anointed you as king to the people of Jehovah, to Israel.
And you shall strike the house of your lord Ahab, that I may avenge the blood of My servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of Jehovah from the hand of Jezebel.
And all the house of Ahab shall perish. Yea, I have cut off to Ahab those who urinate against the wall, both bound and free in Israel.
And I have given up the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah.
And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel. And there shall be none to bury her . And he opened the door and fled.
And Jehu went out to the servants of his lord. And one said to him, Peace? Why did this madman come to you? And he said to them, You know the man, and his message.
And they said, A lie! Tell us now. And he said, This and this he said to me, saying, So says Jehovah, I have anointed you king over Israel.
And they hurried, and each man took his garment and put it under him on the bare steps, and blew with the ram's horn, and said, Jehu reigns!
And Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Jehoram. And Jehoram was keeping watch at Ramoth-gilead, he and all Israel before Hazael the king of Syria.
And king Jehoram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds with which the Syrians had smitten him as he fought with Hazael the king of Syria. and Jehu said, If it is in your minds, do not let one leave the city to go to tell  it in Jezreel.
And Jehu rode and went to Jezreel, for Jehoram lay there. And Ahaziah the king of Judah had gone down to see Jehoram.
And the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel. And he saw the troop of Jehu as he came. And he said, I see a troop. And Jehoram said, Take a rider, and send to meet them, and let him say, Peace?
And the rider on the horse went to meet him, and said, So says the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me. And the watchman spoke, saying, The messenger came to them, and he has not returned.
And he sent a second rider on a horse. And he came to them, and said, So says the king, Peace? And Jehu said, What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me.
And the watchman spoke, saying, He came to them, and he has not returned. And the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drives madly.
And Jehoram said, Harness up! And his chariot was harnessed. And Jehoram the king of Israel and Ahaziah the king of Judah went out, each in his chariot. And they went out to meet Jehu, and found him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite.
And it happened, when Jehoram saw Jehu, he said, Peace, Jehu? And he said, What peace, so long as the whoredoms of your mother Jezebel and her sorceries are so many?
And Jehoram turned his hands and fled, and said to Ahaziah, Treachery, O Ahaziah!
And Jehu filled his hand with a bow and struck Jehoram between his arms. And the arrow went out from his heart. And he sank down in his chariot.
And Jehu said to his third officer, Bidkar, Take up, throw him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite. For, remember, you and I were riding together after his father Ahab, and Jehovah laid this burden on him:
Surely yesterday I have seen the blood of Naboth, and the blood of his sons, says Jehovah. And I will repay you in this portion, says Jehovah. Now, then, take him up, throw him into the portion of Naboth , according to the word of Jehovah.
And Ahaziah the king of Judah saw, and he fled the way of the garden house. And Jehu pursued him, and said, Strike him, him also, in the chariot, in the ascent to Gur, that is , Ibleam. And he fled to Megiddo and died there.
And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his buryingplace, with his fathers in the city of David.
And in the eleventh year of Jehoram the son of Ahab, Ahaziah reigned over Judah.
And Jehu came to Jezreel. And Jezebel had heard, and had painted her eyes and adorned her head, and looked down through the window.
And Jehu came to the gate. And she said, Was it peace to Zimri the slayer of his lord?
And he lifted his face to the window, and said, Who is with me? Who? And two or three eunuchs looked down to him.
And he said, Throw her down! And they threw her down. And some of her blood was splashed on the wall, and on the horses. And he trampled her.
And he came in and ate and drank, and said, Now look after this cursed woman and bury her, for she is a king's daughter.
And they went to bury her, but did not find any of her except the skull, and the feet, and the palms of the hands.
And they came back and told him. And he said, It is the word of Jehovah that He spoke by the hand of his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel, the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel.
And the carcass of Jezebel shall be as dung on the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel.