And David, once more, gathered together all the choice young men in Israel, thirty thousand.
Then David, and all the people that were with him, arose and went beyond Baale Judah,—to bring up from thence, the ark of God, the name whereof is called by the name of Yahweh of hosts, who inhabiteth the cherubim thereupon.
So they carried the ark of God in a new waggon, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, who was in Gibeah,—and, Uzza and Ahio, sons of Abinadab, were driving the new waggon.
So they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was in Gibeah, with the ark of God,—and, Ahio, was going before the ark.
And, David and all the house of Israel, were dancing for joy before Yahweh, with all boldness and with songs,—and with lyres, and with harps, and with timbrels, and with sistrums, and with cymbals.
And, when they came as far as the threshing-floor of Nachon, Uzzah thrust forth his hand unto the ark of God, and took hold of it, for the oxen were restive.
Then was kindled the anger of Yahweh, against Uzzah, and God smote him there, for the error,—so that he died there, by the ark of God.
And it was a sadness unto David, for that Yahweh had broken in with a breach against Uzzah,—therefore called he that place, Perez-uzzah [as it is called] until this day.
And David was afraid of Yahweh, on that day,—and said, How can the ark of Yahweh come unto me?
So David would not remove unto him the ark of Yahweh, unto the city of David,—but David took it aside to the house of Obed-edom, the Gittite.
And the ark of Yahweh abode in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite, three months,—and Yahweh blessed Obed -edom, and all his household.
And it was told King David, saying, Yahweh hath blessed the household of Obed-edom, and all that he hath, because of the ark of God. David therefore went and brought up the ark of God, out of the house of Obed-edom, unto the city of David, with rejoicing.
And so it was that, when they who bare the ark of Yahweh had stepped forward six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a heifer.
And, David, was dancing with all boldness before Yahweh,—David, being girt with an ephod of linen.
So, David and all the house of Israel, were bringing up the ark of Yahweh,—with triumphant shoutings, and with the sound of a horn.
Now it so came about that, when the ark of Yahweh entered the city of David, Michal Saul’s daughter, looked out through the window, and saw King David, leaping and dancing before Yahweh, and she despised him, in her heart.
So they brought in the ark of Yahweh, and set it in its place, in the midst of the tent which David had stretched out for it,—and David caused to go up ascending-sacrifices before Yahweh, and peace-offerings.
And, when David had finished offering up the ascending-sacrifice and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Yahweh of hosts.
And he apportioned to all the people, to all the multitude of Israel, both to men and to women—to every one, a loaf of bread, and a sweet drink, and a raisin-cake,—and all the people went their way, every one unto his own house;
and David returned, to bless his household. Then came forth Michal Saul’s daughter to meet David, and said—How honoured, to-day, was the king of Israel in disrobing himself to-day, in the sight of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the low people, might disrobe himself?
And David said unto Michal, Before Yahweh, I will dance,—blessed, be Yahweh, who made choice of me above thy father, and above all his house, putting me in charge as leader over the people of Yahweh, over Israel,—therefore will I dance before Yahweh;
and will make myself, yet more, lightly esteemed that this, and become lowly in mine own eyes,—nevertheless, with the handmaids of whom thou hast spoken, with them, shall I be honoured.
Therefore, Michal Saul’s daughter, had no child,—unto the day of her death.