However, Job, please hear my speeches, and listen to all my words.
Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue has spoken in my mouth,
my words shall be from my upright heart, and my lips will clearly speak knowledge.
The Spirit of God made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
If you can, answer me; set yourself in order before me, stand up.
Behold, I am toward God even as you are; I also am formed out of the clay.
Behold, my terror shall not make you afraid, and my burden shall not be heavy on you.
Surely you have spoken in my ears, and I have heard the sound of your words.
You said, I am pure, without transgression; I am innocent, and no iniquity is in me;
behold, He finds reasons to be against me, He counts me for His enemy;
He puts my feet in the stocks; He marks all my paths.
Behold, in this you are not right; I will answer you, for God is greater than man.
Why do you fight against Him? For He does not give account for any of His matters.
For God speaks once, yea, twice, but not one takes notice.
In a dream, a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls on men; while they slumber on the bed;
then He opens the ear of men and seals their teaching,
so that He may turn man from his act, that He might hide pride from man.
He keeps back his soul from the Pit, and his life from perishing by the sword.
He is also chastened with pain on his bed, and enduring strife in his bones;
so that his life is sick of bread, and his soul desirable food.
His flesh wastes away, not seen; and his bones laid bare; they were not seen.
Yea, his soul draws near to the Pit, and his life to the dealers of death.
If there is a messenger for him, a mediator, one among a thousand, to declare for man his uprightness,
then He is gracious to him and says, Deliver him from going down to the Pit; for I have found a ransom.
His flesh shall be fresher than in vigor; he shall return to the days of his youth;
he shall pray to God, and He will be gracious to Him; and he shall see His face with joy, for He will restore to man his righteousness.
He will observe to men, and say, I have sinned and perverted righteousness; and it was not equally repaid to me,
He has redeemed my soul from passing over into the Pit, and my life shall see the light.
Lo, all these things God does two or three times with a man,
to bring back his soul from the Pit, to be lighted with the light of the living.
Hear this, Job, listen to me; be silent and I will speak.
If you have anything to say, answer me; speak, for I desire to justify you.
If not, listen to me; be silent, and I will teach you wisdom.