The preparations of the heart belong to man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the LORD.
All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the LORD weigheth the spirits.
Commit thy works to the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be established.
The LORD hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
Every one that isproud in heart is an abomination to the LORD: though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished.
By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the LORD men depart from evil.
When a man’s ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Betteris a little with righteousness than great revenues without right.
A man’s heart deviseth his way: but the LORD directeth his steps.
A divine sentenceis in the lips of the king: his mouth transgresseth not in judgment.
A just weight and balance are the LORD’S: all the weights of the bag are his work.
It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the throne is established by righteousness.
Righteous lipsare the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right.
The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacify it.
In the light of a king’s countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain.
How much betteris it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver!
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.
Pridegoethbefore destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.
Betterit is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud.
He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoever trusteth in the LORD, happy is he.
The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.
Understandingis a wellspring of life to him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly.
The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips.
Pleasant wordsare as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
There is a way that seemeth right to a man, but the end of it is the way of death.
He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth it of him.
An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a burning fire.
A perverse man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends.
A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good.
He shutteth his eyes to devise perverse things: moving his lips he bringeth evil to pass.
The hoary headis a crown of glory, if it is found in the way of righteousness.
He that isslow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.
The lot is cast into the lap; but its whole disposing is from the LORD.