When Jesus had thus spoken, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father! the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that the Son may glorify thee;
according as thou gavest him authority over all flesh, that he should give everlasting life to all whom thou hast given him.
And this is the everlasting life, to know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou didst send.
I have glorified thee on the earth, having finished the work which thou gavest me to do;
and now, Father! do thou glorify me with thyself, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was.
I manifested thy name to the men whom thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them to me; and they have kept thy word.
Now they know that all things whatever thou hast given me are from thee;
for I have given to them the words which thou hast given me; and they received them, and knew surely that I came forth from thee, and believed that thou didst send me.
I pray for them; I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given me; for they are thine;
and all things that are mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them.
And I am no longer in the world; and they are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father! keep them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one, even as we are.
While I was with them, I kept them in thy name which thou hast given me, and guarded them; and no one of them is lost except the son of perdition, that the Scripture may be fulfilled.
But now I come to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy made full in them.
I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
I do not pray thee to take them out of the world, but to keep them from evil.
They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them in thy truth; thy word is truth.
As thou didst send me into the world, I also sent them into the world.
And in their behalf I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified in the truth.
Yet not for these alone do I pray, but also for those who believe in me through their word;
that they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me and I in thee, that they also may be in us, that the world may believe that thou didst send me.
And the glory which thou hast given me, I have given them, that they may be one, even as we are one;
I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one, that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me.
Father! as to that which thou hast given me, I desire that they also be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which thou hast given me; for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world.
Righteous Father! and yet the world knew thee not! but I knew thee, and these knew that thou didst send me.
And I made known to them thy name, and will make it known; that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.