Just at that time some people had come to tell Jesus about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with the blood of their sacrifices.
“Do you suppose,” replied Jesus, “that, because these Galileans have suffered in this way, they were worse sinners than any other Galileans?
No, I tell you; but, unless you repent, you will all perish as they did.
Or those eighteen men at Siloam on whom the tower fell, killing them all, do you suppose that they were worse offenders than any other inhabitants of Jerusalem?
No, I tell you; but, unless you repent, you will all perish in the same manner.”
And Jesus told them this parable — “A man, who had a fig tree growing in his vineyard, came to look for fruit on it, but could not find any.
So he said to his gardener ‘Three years now I have come to look for fruit on this fig tree, without finding any! Cut it down. Why should it rob the soil?’
‘Leave it this one year more, Sir,’ the man answered, ‘till I have dug round it and manured it.
Then, if it bears in future, well and good; but if not, you can have it cut down.’”
Jesus was teaching on a Sabbath in one of the Synagogues,
and he saw before him a woman who for eighteen years had suffered from weakness owing to her having an evil spirit in her. She was bent double, and was wholly unable to raise herself.
When Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said: “Woman, you are released from your weakness.”
He placed his hands on her, and she was instantly made straight, and began to praise God.
But the President of the Synagogue, indignant that Jesus had worked the cure on the Sabbath, interposed and said to the people: “There are six days on which work ought to be done; come to be cured on one of those, and not on the Sabbath.”
“You hypocrites!” the Master answered him. “Does not every one of you let his ox or his ass loose from its manger, and take it out to drink, on the Sabbath?
But this woman, a daughter of Abraham, who has been kept in bondage by Satan for now eighteen years, ought not she to have been released from her bondage on the Sabbath?”
As he said this, his opponents all felt ashamed; but all the people rejoiced to see all the wonderful things that he was doing.
So Jesus said: “What is the Kingdom of God like? and to what can I liken it?
It is like a mustard-seed which a man took and put in his garden. The seed grew and became a tree, and ‘the wild birds roosted in its branches.’”
And again Jesus said: “To what can I liken the Kingdom of God?
It is like some yeast which a woman took and covered in three pecks of flour, until the whole had risen.”
Jesus went through towns and villages, teaching as he went, and making his way towards Jerusalem.
“Master,” some one asked, “are there but few in the path of Salvation?” And Jesus answered:
“Strive to go in by the small door. Many, I tell you, will seek to go in, but they will not be able,
when once the master of the house has got up and shut the door, while you begin to say, as you stand outside and knock, ‘Sir, open the door for us.’ His answer will be — ‘I do not know where you come from.’
Then you will begin to say ‘We have eaten and drunk in your presence, and you have taught in our streets,’ and his reply will be —
‘I do not know where you come from. Leave my presence, all you who are living in wickedness.’
There, there will be weeping and grinding of teeth, when you see Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all the Prophets, in the Kingdom of God, while you yourselves are being driven outside.
People will come from East and West, and from North and South, and take their places at the banquet in the Kingdom of God.
there are some who are last now who will then be first, and some who are first now who will then be last!”
Just then some Pharisees came up to Jesus and said: “Go away and leave this place, for Herod wants to kill you.”
But Jesus answered: “Go and say to that fox ‘Look you, I am driving out demons and shall be completing cures to-day and to-morrow, and on the third day I shall have done.’
But to-day and to-morrow and the day after I must go on my way, because it cannot be that a Prophet should meet his end outside Jerusalem.
Jerusalem! Jerusalem! she who slays the Prophets and stones the messengers sent to her — Oh, how often have I wished to gather your children round me, as a hen takes her brood under her wings, and you would not come!
Verily your House is left to you desolate! and never, I tell you, shall you see me, until you say —   ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.’”