And it happened when the wall was built, I set up the doors, and the gatekeepers and the singers and the Levites were chosen.
I commanded that my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace be over Jerusalem. For he was as a faithful man and feared God above many.
And I said to them, Do not let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot. And while they are standing, let them shut and bar the doors. And make stand guards from the people of Jerusalem, each one in his watch, and each one to be across from his house.
And the city was wide on both hands, and great, but the people in it few, and the houses not being built.
And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, so that they might be counted by genealogy. And I found a register of genealogy of those who came up at the first. And I found written in it:
These are the sons of the province who went up of the exiles, of the captivity, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had removed. And they came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, each man to his city.
The ones coming with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel was:
the sons of Parosh were two thousand, one hundred and seventy two.
The sons of Shephatiah were three hundred and seventy two.
The sons of Arah were six hundred and fifty two.
The sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, were two thousand, eight hundred and eighteen.
The sons of Elam were a thousand, two hundred and fifty four.
The sons of Zattu were eight hundred and forty five.
The sons of Zaccai were seven hundred and sixty.
The sons of Binnui were six hundred and forty eight.
The sons of Bebai were six hundred and twenty eight.
The sons of Azgad were two thousand, three hundred and twenty two.
The sons of Adonikam were six hundred and sixty seven.
The sons of Bigvai were two thousand and sixty seven.
The sons of Adin were six hundred and fifty five.
The sons of Ater of Hezekiah were ninety eight.
The sons of Hashum were three hundred and twenty eight.
The sons of Bezai were three hundred and twenty four.
The sons of Hariph were a hundred and twelve.
The sons of Gibeon were ninety five.
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah were a hundred and eighty eight.
The men of Anathoth were a hundred and twenty eight.
The men of Beth-azmaveth were forty two.
The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth were seven hundred and forty three.
The men of Ramah and Gaba were six hundred and twenty one.
The men of Michmas were a hundred and twenty two.
The men of Bethel and Ai were a hundred and twenty three.
The men of the other Nebo were fifty two.
The sons of the other Elam were a thousand, two hundred and fifty four.
The sons of Harim were three hundred and twenty.
The sons of Jericho were three hundred and forty five.
The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono were seven hundred and twenty one.
The sons of Senaah were three thousand, nine hundred and thirty.
The priests: The sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua: nine hundred and seventy three.
The sons of Immer were a thousand and fifty two.
The sons of Pashur were a thousand, two hundred and forty seven.
The sons of Harim were a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the sons of Hodevah, were seventy four.
The singers: the sons of Asaph were a hundred and forty eight.
The gatekeepers: The sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai were a hundred and thirty eight.
The temple-slaves: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hashupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
the sons of Keros, the sons of Sia, the sons of Padon,
the sons of Lebana, the sons of Hagaba, the sons of Shalmai,
the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar,
the sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda,
the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah,
the sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephishesim,
the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
the sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Tamah,
the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha;
of the sons of Solomon's servants, the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida,
the sons of Jaala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth of Zebaim, the sons of Amon.
All the temple slaves and the sons of Solomon's servants were three hundred and ninety two.
And these were they who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-haresha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer. But they were not able to manifest their father's house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel:
The sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred and forty two;
and of the priests, the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Koz, the sons of Barzillai, who took one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name.
These sought their register among those who were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found. And they were polluted from the priesthood.
And the governor said to them that they should not eat of the most holy things until there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
All the congregation together was forty thousand, three hundred and sixty.
Besides the male slaves and their slave-girls, these were seven thousand, three hundred and thirty seven. And they had two hundred and forty-five singing men and singing women.
Their horses were seven hundred and thirty six. Their mules were two hundred and forty five;
their camels, four hundred and thirty five; their asses, six thousand, seven hundred and twenty.
And some of the heads of the fathers gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury a thousand darics of gold, fifty, basins, five hundred and thirty priests garments.
And some of the heads of the fathers gave to the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand, two hundred pieces of silver.
And what the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand pieces of silver, and sixty seven priests' garments.
So the priests, and the Levites, and the gatekeepers, and the singers, and some of the people, and the temple-slaves, and all Israel, lived in their cities. And when the seventh month came, the sons of Israel were in their cities.