FOR this Melchisedec, king of Salem, a priest of God most high, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
to whom also Abraham gave a tenth share of all the spoil: being, as the interpretation of his name imports, first, King of righteousness, and then also King of Salem, that is, King of peace:
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but in exact resemblance with the Son of God, abideth a priest for ever.
Now observe how great is this Melchisedec, to whom even Abraham the patriarch gave the tenth of the spoils.
For they indeed of the sons of Levi, who are admitted to priesthood, have an order to receive tithes from the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though also sprung from the loins of Abraham.
But he who derived not his genealogy from them, received tithes from Abraham, and blessed him who had the promises;
but without all dispute the inferior receives benediction from the superior.
And here indeed dying men receive the tithes, but there he hath a testimony borne to him that he liveth.
And, if I may so say, through Abraham even Levi, who receiveth tithes, paid tithes.
For he was as yet in the loins of his father when Melchisedec met him.
If therefore there was perfection by the Levitical priesthood (for under that the people had the law given to them), what farther need was there that another priest should arise after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
For the priesthood being transferred, there is of necessity an abrogation of the law also.
For he to whom these things are spoken belonged to another tribe, in which no man approached the altar.
For it is evident that our Lord sprang from Judah; to which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood;
and it is yet more abundantly evident, that there should arise another priest after the likeness of Melchisedec,
who was not made such by the law of a carnal commandment, but by the power of a life indissoluble.
For the testimony is, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.
For there is indeed an abrogation of the preceding command, because of its weakness and inutility.
For the law led to no perfection, but was an introduction to a better hope, by which we draw nigh unto God.
Moreover, forasmuch as he was not made priest without an oath,
(for they indeed were made priests without an oath; but he with an oath, by him who said unto him, “The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec:”)
by so much is Jesus become the surety of a better testament.
And they indeed are many who were made priests, because by death they were prevented from abiding in their office:
but this person, because he abideth for ever, hath a priesthood that passeth not over to another.
Wherefore also he is able to save to the uttermost those who come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.
For such an high-priest was suitable to us, holy, inoffensive, spotless, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens:
who hath not daily need, as the high-priests, first, to offer sacrifice for their own sins, afterwards, for those of the people: for this he did once for all, when he offered up himself.
For the law constitutes men high-priests, though they have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which is since the law, constitutes the Son, unto eternity completely perfect.