And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall not do after the doings of the land of Egypt, in which ye dwelt, and ye shall not do after the doings of the land of Canaan, where I bring you, nor shall ye walk in their statutes.
Ye shall do my ordinances, and ye shall keep my statutes, to walk therein. I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall therefore keep my statutes, and my ordinances, which if a man does, he shall live in them. I am Jehovah.
None of you shall approach to any who are near of kin to him, to uncover nakedness. I am Jehovah.
The nakedness of thy father, even the nakedness of thy mother, thou shall not uncover. She is thy mother. Thou shall not uncover her nakedness,
the nakedness of thy father's wife. It is thy father's nakedness.
The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, whether born at home, or born abroad, even their nakedness thou shall not uncover.
The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's daughter, even their nakedness thou shall not uncover, for theirs is thine own nakedness.
The nakedness of thy father's wife's daughter, begotten of thy father, she is thy sister, thou shall not uncover her nakedness.
Thou shall not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister. She is thy father's near kinswoman.
Thou shall not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister, for she is thy mother's near kinswoman.
Thou shall not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother. Thou shall not approach to his wife. She is thine aunt.
Thou shall not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter-in-law. She is thy son's wife. Thou shall not uncover her nakedness.
Thou shall not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife. It is thy brother's nakedness.
Thou shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter. Thou shall not take her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter, to uncover her nakedness. They are near kinswomen. It is iniquity.
And thou shall not take a wife in addition to her sister, to be a rival to her, to uncover her nakedness, besides the other in her life-time.
And thou shall not approach to a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.
And thou shall not lie carnally with thy neighbor's wife, to defile thyself with her.
And thou shall not give any of thy seed to make them pass through the fire to Molech, neither shall thou profane the name of thy God. I am Jehovah.
Thou shall not lie with mankind, as with womankind. It is abomination.
And thou shall not lie with any beast to defile thyself with it, nor shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down with it. It is a perversion.
Do not defile ye yourselves in any of these things. For in all these the nations are defiled which I cast out from before you,
and the land is defiled. Therefore I visit the iniquity of it upon it, and the land vomits out its inhabitants.
Ye therefore shall keep my statutes and my ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations, neither the home-born, nor the stranger that sojourns among you,
(for all these abominations the men of the land have done, who were before you, and the land is defiled),
that the land not vomit you out also, when ye defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people.
Therefore ye shall keep my charge, that ye not practice any of these abominable customs, which were practiced before you, and that ye not defile yourselves in it. I am Jehovah your God.