And he said also to the disciples, There was a certain rich man, who had a steward; and the same was accused to him as wasting his goods.
And he called him, and said to him, What is this that I hear of thee? Give an account of thy stewardship; for thou canst be no longer steward.
Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do, now that my lord taketh away from me the stewardship? I cannot dig, I am ashamed to beg.
I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, I may be received into their houses.
So he called to him every one of his lord’s debtors, and said to the first, How much dost thou owe my lord?
And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said to him, Take thy bond, and sit down quickly, and write fifty.
Then he said to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. He saith to him, Take thy bond, and write eighty.
And the lord commended the unjust steward for having done wisely; for the sons of this world are wiser toward their generation than the sons of light.
And I say to you, Make to yourselves friends with the unrighteous mammon; that, when it faileth, ye may be received into everlasting habitations.
He that is faithful in that which is least, is faithful also in much; and he that is unjust in the least, is unjust also in much.
If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?
and if ye have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will give you that which is your own?
No servant can serve two masters; for either he will hate one, and love the other; or he will cleave to one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
And the Pharisees, who were covetous, heard all this, and they derided him.
And he said to them, Ye are they who justify yourselves before men; but God knoweth your hearts; for that which is highly exalted among men is an abomination before God.
The Law and the Prophets were till John; from that time the glad tidings of the kingdom of God have been published, and every one is forcing his way into it.
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tittle of the law to fail.
Whoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery; and he who marrieth a woman that hath been put away from her husband, committeth adultery.
There was a certain rich man, who was clothed in purple and fine linen, and feasted sumptuously every day.
And a certain beggar named Lazarus was laid at his gate, full of sores,
and longing to be fed with what fell from the rich man’s table. But even the dogs came and licked his sores.
And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels to the bosom of Abraham. The rich man also died and was buried.
And in the underworld he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
And he called and said, Father Abraham, have pity on me, and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou didst receive thy good things in thy lifetime, and Lazarus in like manner his evil things; but now he is comforted here, and thou art tormented.
And besides all this, between us and you there is placed a great gulf, so that those who wish to cross from hence to you may not be able, and that those on that side cannot cross over to us.
Then he said, I pray thee then, father, to send him to my father’s house;
for I have five brothers; that he may give earnest warning to them, that they too may not come into this place of torment.
But Abraham saith, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
But he said, Nay, father Abraham; but if one should go to them from the dead, they would repent.
But he said to him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded, though one should rise from the dead.