Because therfore that we are iustified by fayth we are at peace with god thorow oure Lorde Iesue Christ:
by who we have awaye in thorow fayth vnto this grace wherin we stonde aud reioyce in hope of the prayse that shalbe geven of God.
Nether do we so only: but also we reioyce in tribulacion. For we know that tribulacion bringeth pacience
pacience bringeth experience experience bringeth hope.
And hope maketh not ashamed for the love of God is sheed abrod in oure hertes by the holy goost which is geven vnto vs.
For when we were yet weake accordynge to ye tyme: Christ dyed for vs which were vngodly.
Yet scace will eny man dye for a rightewes man. Paraventure for a good ma durst a man dye.
But God setteth out his love that he hath to vs seinge that whyll we were yet synners Christ dyed for vs.
Moche more then now (seynge we are iustifyed in his bloud) shall we be saved from wrath thorow him.
For yf when we were enemyes we were reconciled to God by the deeth of his sonne: moche more seinge we are reconciled we shal be preservid by his lyfe.
Not only so but we also ioye in God by the meanes of oure Lorde Iesus Christ by whom we have receavyd the attonment.
Wherfore as by one ma synne entred into the worlde and deeth by the meanes of synne. And so deeth went over all men in somoche that all men synned.
For even vnto the tyme of the lawe was synne in the worlde: but synne was not regarded as longe as ther was no lawe:
neverthelesse deeth rayned fro Adam to Moses eve over them also that synned not wt lyke transgression as dyd Adam: which is ye similitude of him that is to come.
But the gyfte is not lyke as the synne. For yf thorow the synne of one many be deed: moche more plenteous vpon many was the grace of God and gyfte by grace: which grace was geven by one man Iesus Christ.
And ye gifte is not over one synne as deeth cam thorow one synne of one yt synned. For damnacion cam of one synne vnto condemnacion: but the gyft cam to iustify fro many synnes.
For yf by the synne of one deeth raigned by the meanes of one moche more shall they which receave aboundance of grace and of the gyfte of rightewesnes raygne in lyfe by the meanes of one (that is to saye) Iesus Christ.
Lykewyse then as by the synne of one condemnacion cam on all men: eve so by the iustifyinge of one cometh the rightewesnes that bringeth lyfe vpo all men.
For as by one manes disobediece many be cam synners: so by ye obediece of one shall many be made righteous.
But ye lawe in the meane tyme entred in yt synne shuld encreace. Neverthelater where aboundaunce of synne was there was more plenteousnes of grace.
That as synne had raigned vnto deeth even so might grace raygne thorow rightewesnes vnto eternall lyfe by the helpe of Iesu Christ.