And Jehovah called to Moses and spoke to him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying:
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, If any one of you brings an offering to Jehovah, from livestock of the herd, or from the flock, you shall bring near your offering.
If his offering is out of the herd, a male, a perfect one, he shall bring it to the opening of the tabernacle of the congregation, at his pleasure, before the face of Jehovah.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it is accepted for him to make atonement for him.
And he shall kill the son of the herd before the face of Jehovah. And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall bring near the blood and sprinkle the blood on the altar all around at the opening of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And he shall skin the burnt offering, and shall cut it into pieces.
And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar and arrange wood on the fire.
And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall arrange the pieces, with the head and the fat, on the wood on the fire, which is on the altar.
And he shall wash its inward parts, and its legs, with water. And the priest shall burn as incense the whole of it on the altar for a burnt offering, a fire offering of soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And if his offering is out of the flock, out of the sheep, or out of the goats, for a burnt offering, a male, a perfect one, he shall bring it near.
And he shall slaughter it by the side of the altar northward, before the face of Jehovah. And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall sprinkle its blood all around on the altar.
And he shall cut it to pieces with both its head and its fat, and the priest shall arrange them on the wood which is on the fire on the altar.
And he shall wash the inward parts and the legs with water, and the priest shall bring near all of it and burn it as incense on the altar; it is a burnt offering, a fire offering of soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And if the burnt offering is a burnt offering out of the fowls to Jehovah, then he shall bring near his offering, of turtledoves or of the offspring of the dove.
And the priest shall bring it near to the altar and shall nip off its head. And he shall burn it as incense on the altar; its blood shall be drained by the side of the altar.
And he shall remove its crop with its feathers, and shall throw it near the altar eastward, to the place of the ashes.
And he shall cleave it with its wings, not dividing it , and the priest shall burn it as incense on the altar, on the wood which is on the fire; a burnt offering; it is a fire offering of soothing fragrance to Jehovah.