And I saw a book on the right of Him sitting on the throne, written inside and on the back, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loosen its seals?
And no one in Heaven, nor on the earth, nor under the earth, was able to open the book or to look at it.
And I wept very much, because no one was found worthy to open and to read the book, nor to look at it.
And one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals of it.
And I looked, and lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, amidst the elders, a Lamb stood, as if it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
And He came and took the book out of the right hand of Him sitting on the throne.
And when He had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one having harps and golden vials full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sang a new song, saying, You are worthy to take the book and to open its seals, for You were slain and have redeemed us to God by Your blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation.
And You made us kings and priests to our God, and we will reign over the earth.
And I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, and the living creatures and the elders. And the number of them was myriads and myriads, and thousands of thousands,
saying with a great voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
And I heard every creature which is in the Heaven and on the earth, and under the earth, and those that are in the sea, and all who are in them, saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be to Him sitting on the throne, and to the Lamb forever and ever.
And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the twenty-four elders fell down and worshiped the One living forever and ever.