Judge not, that ye be not judged.
For with the judgment with which ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with the measure with which ye measure, ye shall be measured again.
And why dost thou behold the mote that is in thy brother's eye but dost not consider the beam that is in thine own eye?
Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam [is] in thine own eye?
Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou be able to see to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.
Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and rend you.
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you;
for every one that asks receives, and he that seeks finds, and to him that knocks it shall be opened.
Or what man is there of you, whom, if his son asks [for] bread, will he give him a stone?
Or if he asks [for] fish, will he give him a serpent?
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father who is in the heavens give good things to those that ask him?
Therefore, all things whatsoever ye desire that men should do unto you, so also shall ye do unto them, for this is the law and the prophets.
Enter ye in at the narrow gate, for the way that leads to destruction is wide and spacious, and those who follow it are many;
because narrow [is] the gate, and confined [is] the way which leads unto life, and there are few that find it.
Keep yourselves also from the false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
Even so every good tree brings forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree brings forth evil fruit.
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither [can] a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Every tree that does not bring forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire.
So that by their fruits ye shall know them.
Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens, but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in the heavens.
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?
And then I will profess unto them, I never knew you; depart from me, ye that work iniquity.
Therefore, whosoever hears these words of mine and does them, I will liken him unto a prudent man, who built his house upon the rock;
and the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded upon a rock.
And every one that hears these words of mine and does not do them shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand;
and the rain descended, and the rivers came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell; and great was the fall of it.
And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these words, the multitude marvelled at his doctrine;
for he taught them as [one] having authority and not as the scribes.: