And he beganne to speake vnto them in similitudes. A certayne man planted a vineyarde and copased it with an hedge and ordeyned a wyne presse and bylt a toure in yt. And let yt out to hyre vnto husbandme and went into a straunge countre.
And when the tyme was come he sent to the tennauntes a servaunt that he myght receave of the tenauntes of the frute of the vyneyarde.
And they caught him and bet him and sent him agayne emptye.
And moreoever he sent vnto them another servaunt and at him they cast stones and brake his heed and sent him agayne all to revyled.
And agayne he sent another and him they kylled: and many other beetynge some and kyllinge some.
Yet had he one sonne whom he loved tenderly him also he sent at the last vnto them sayinge: they wyll feare my sonne.
But the tenauntes sayde amongest them selves: this is the heyre: come let vs kyll hym and ye inheritauce shalbe oures.
And they toke him and kyllid him and cast him out of the vyneyarde.
What shall then the lorde of the vyneyarde do? He will come and destroye ye tenauntes and let out the vyneyarde to other.
Have ye not redde this scripture? The stoone which ye bylders dyd refuse is made ye chefe stoone in ye corner:
this was done of ye Lorde and is mervelous in oure eyes.
And they went about to take him but they feared the people. For they perceaved that he spake that similitude agaynst them. And they left him and went their waye.
And they sent vnto him certayne of ye Pharises with Herodes servantes to take him in his wordes.
And assone as they were come they sayd vnto him: master we knowe yt thou arte true and carest for no man: for thou consyderest not the degre of men but teachest the waye of God truly: Ys it laufull to paye tribute to Cesar or not?
Ought we to geve or ought we not to geve? He vnderstode their simulacion and sayde vnto them: Why tepte ye me? Brynge me a peny that I maye se yt.
And they brought. And he sayde vnto them: Whose ys thys ymage and superscripcion? And they sayde vnto him Cesars.
And Iesus answered and saide vnto the: Then geve to Cesar that which belongeth to Cesar: and to God that which perteyneth to God. And they mervelled at him.
Then came the Saduces vnto him which saye ther is no resurreccion. And they axed hym sayinge:
Master Moses wroote vnto vs yf eny mans brother dye and leve his wyfe behinde him and leve no chyldren: that then hys brother shuld take his wyfe and reyse vp seed vnto his brother.
Ther were seven brethren: and the fyrst toke a wyfe and when he dyed leeft no seed behynde him.
And the seconde toke hir and dyed: nether leeft eny seed. And the thyrde lyke wyse.
And seve had her and leeft no seed behynde them. Last of all the wyfe dyed also.
In the resurreccio then when they shall ryse agayne: whose wyfe shall she be of them? For seven had her to wyfe.
Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: Are ye not therfore deceaved and vnderstonde not the scryptures nether the power of God?
For when they shall ryse agayne fro deeth they nether mary nor are maryed: but are as the angels which are in heven.
As touchynge the deed that they shall ryse agayne: have ye not redde in the boke of Moses howe in the busshe God spake vnto him sayinge: I am the God of Abraham and God of Ysaac and the God of Iacob?
He is not the God of the deed but the God of the livynge. Ye are therfore greatly deceaved.
And ther came one of the scribes that had hearde them disputynge to gedder and perceaved that he had answered them well and axed him: Which is the fyrste of all the commaundemetes?
Iesus answered him: the fyrste of all the comaundementes is. Heare Israel: The Lorde God is one Lorde.
And thou shalt love the Lorde thy God with all thy hert and with all thy soule and with all thy mynde and with all thy strength. This is the fyrste commaundement.
And the seconde is lyke vnto this: Thou shalt love thy neghbour as thy silfe. Ther is none other commaundement greater then these.
And the Scribe sayde vnto him: well master thou hast sayd ye truthe that ther ys one God and that ther is none but he.
And to love him with all the herte and with all the mynde and with all the soule and with all the stregth: and to love a mans neghbour as him silfe ys a greater thinge then all burntofferings and sacrifices.
And when Iesus sawe that he answered discretly he sayde vnto him: Thou arte not farre from the kyngdome of God. And no man after that durst axe him eny questio.
And Iesus answered and sayde teachynge in the temple: how saye the Scribes yt Christ is the sonne of David?
for David him selfe inspyred with the holy goost sayde: The Lorde sayde to my Lorde syt on my right honde tyll I make thyne enemyes thy fote stole.
Then David hym silfe calleth him Lorde: and by what meanes is he then his sonne? And moche people hearde him gladly.
And he sayde vnto them in his doctrine: beware of the Scribes which love to goo in longe clothinge: and love salutacions in ye market places
and the chefe seates in the synagoges and to syt in the vppermost roumes at feastes
and devoure widowes houses and that vnder coloure of longe prayinge. These shall receave greater dampnacion.
And Iesus sat over agaynst the treasury and behelde how the people put money in to the treasury. And many that were ryche cast in moch.
And ther cam a certayne povre widowe and she threwe in two mytes which make a farthynge.
And he called vnto him his disciples and sayde vnto them: Verely I saye vnto you that this pover widowe hath cast moare in then all they which have caste into the treasury.
For they all dyd cast in of their superfluyte: but she of her poverte dyd cast in all that she had eve all her livynge.