And again he entered Capernaum, after some days; and they heard that he was in the house.
And immediately many came together, so that the house could contain them no longer, nor could the space about the door. And he preached the word to them.
And they came to him, bringing a paralytic, who was carried by four men.
And not being able to come near him, on account of the multitude, they took off the roof where he was, and having broken through, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay.
And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic: Son, your sins are forgiven you.
But some of the scribes were sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts:
Why does this man thus speak impiously? Who can forgive sins but God only?
And Jesus, immediately perceiving in his spirit that they thus reasoned within themselves, said to them: Why are you reasoning thus in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise, take up your bed and walk?
But that you may know that the Son of man on earth has authority to forgive sins, (he said to the paralytic,)
I say to you, Arise, take up your bed and go to your house.
And he arose forthwith, and took up his bed, and went out before them all; so that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying: We have never seen it thus.
And he went out again by the sea: and all the multitude came to him, and he taught them.
And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphæus sitting at the custom-house; and he said to him: Follow me. And he arose and followed him.
And it came to pass, as Jesus reclined at table in his house, that many publicans and sinners reclined with him and his disciples; for there were many, and they followed him.
And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eating with publicans and sinners, they said to his disciples: Why is it that he eats and drinks with publicans and sinners?
And when Jesus heard it, he said to them: Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call righteous men, but sinners.
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees were in the habit of fasting; and they came, and said to him: Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples fast not?
And Jesus said to them: Can the sons of the bride-chamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they can not fast.
But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then they will fast in those days.
No one sews a patch of new cloth on an old garment; if so, the new piece which fills it up, takes from the old, and a worse rent is made.
And no one puts new wine into old bottles; if so, the new wine bursts the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the bottles are destroyed. But new wine must be put into new bottles.
And it came to pass, that he was going on the sabbath-day through the fields of grain: and his disciples began, as they went, to pull the ears of grain.
And the Pharisees said to him: See, why are they doing on the sabbath-day what is not lawful?
And he said to them: Did you never read what David did, when he had need and was hungry, he and those who were with him?
How he entered the house of God in the days of Abiathar the chief priest, and ate the loaves of the presence, which, it is not lawful, except for the priests, to eat, and gave to those also who were with him?
And he said to them: The sabbath was made for man, not man for the sabbath.
Therefore, the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.