And when they were drawing near to Jerusalem and to Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples,
and saith to them, Go to the village over against you; and immediately on entering it ye will find a colt tied, on which no man hath yet sat; loose and bring it.
And if any one say to you, Why do ye this? say, The Lord hath need of it, and will immediately send it back hither.
And they went, and found the colt tied by the door without, on the street; and they loose it.
And some of those who were standing there said to them, What are ye about, loosing the colt?
And they said to them as Jesus had commanded; and they let them go.
And they bring the colt to Jesus, and put their garments on it; and he sat upon it.
And many spread their garments on the road; and others boughs, having cut them from the fields.
And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, Hosanna! Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord!
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David! Hosanna in the highest heavens!
And he entered Jerusalem, and the temple; and having looked round on all things, the evening being now come, he went out to Bethany, with the twelve.
And on the morrow, when they had come from Bethany, he was hungry;
and seeing a fig-tree afar off having leaves, he went to see whether he might find anything on it; and on coming to it he found nothing but leaves; for the season of figs had not come.
And he answering said to it, Let no one eat fruit from thee henceforth for ever. And his disciples heard him.
And they come to Jerusalem. And he went into the temple, and began to cast out those who sold and bought in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of those who sold the doves;
and he suffered no one to carry any vessel through the temple.
And he taught, and said to them, Is it not written, "My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations? but ye have made it a den of robbers."
And the chief priests and the scribes heard it, and sought how they might destroy him; for they feared him; because all the multitude was astonished at his teaching.
And when it became late, he went out of the city.
And in the morning, as they were passing by, they saw the fig-tree withered from the roots.
And Peter remembered and said to him, Rabbi, see! the fig-tree which thou didst curse is withered away.
And Jesus answering saith to them, Have faith in God.
Truly do I say to you, that whoever shall say to this mountain, Be thou taken up, and cast into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that what he saith will come to pass, he shall have it.
Therefore I say to you, All things whatever ye pray for and ask, believe that ye have obtained, and ye shall have them.
And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have aught against any one, that your Father who is in heaven may also forgive you your trespasses.

And they come again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests and the scribes and the elders;
and they said to him, By what authority doest thou these things? or who gave thee this authority to do these things?
And Jesus said to them, I will ask you one question; and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or from men? Answer me.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we say, From heaven, he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?
But shall we say, From men? They feared the people; for all regarded John as truly a prophet.
And they answered and said to Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus saith to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.