Stand fast therefore in the liberty with which Christ has made us free and do not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage.
Behold, I, Paul, say unto you that if ye become circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
For I testify again to every man that becomes circumcised that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
Ye are empty of the Christ, whosoever of you that justify yourselves by the law; ye are fallen from grace.
For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision avails anything nor uncircumcision, but faith which works by charity.
Ye did run well; who hindered you that ye should not trust in the truth?
This persuasion does not [come] of him that called you.
A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
I have confidence in you through the Lord that ye will not be otherwise minded, but he that troubles you shall bear his judgment, whoever he is.
And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? Then is the offence of the stake ceased.
I even desire that those who trouble you would cut themselves off.
For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only do not [use] liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by charity serve one another.
For all the law is fulfilled in one word, [even] in this: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye are not consumed one of another.
[This] I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh.
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary the one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would.
But if ye are led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are [these]: Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies,
envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like; which I denounce, as I have also told [you] in time past that those who do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is [this]: Charity, joy, peace, tolerance, gentleness, goodness, faith,
meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.
For those that are of the Christ have crucified the flesh with its affections and lusts.
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another.: