Festus, therefore, having come upon the province, after three days, went up unto Jerusalem from Caesarea;
and the High-priest and chiefs of the Jews laid information before him against Paul, and began to beseech him
asking for themselves as a favour against him, that he would send for him unto Jerusalem,—making, an ambush, to kill him on the way.
Festus, therefore, answered, that Paul should be kept in Caesarea, and that, he himself, was about, shortly, to be going out [thither] .
They, therefore, among you (saith he) who are in power, let them go down with me; and, if there is in the man, anything amiss, let them accuse him.
And, spending among them, not more than eight or ten days, he went down unto Caesarea; and, on the morrow, taking his place upon the judgment-seat, ordered Paul to be brought.
And, when he presented himself, the Jews who, from Jerusalem, had come down, stood round about him, many and grievous charges, bringing against [him], which they were not able to prove,—
Paul saying in defence—Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar, have I in anything sinned.
But, Festus, wishing, with the Jews, to gain, favour, answered Paul, and said—Art thou willing, unto Jerusalem, to go up, and, there, concerning these things, be judged before me?
But Paul said—Standing before the judgment-seat of Caesar, am I, where, I, ought to be judged. Unto the Jews, have I done no wrong, as, even thou, right well, art discovering.
If then, on the one hand, I am doing wrong, and, anything worthy of death, have committed, I excuse not myself from dying; but, on the other hand, if there is, nothing, in the things whereof these are accusing me, no man, hath power to give, me, unto them as a favour:—Unto Caesar, I appeal!
Then Festus, having conversed with the council, answered—Unto Caesar, hast thou appealed? Unto Caesar, shalt thou go.
And, some days having gone by, Agrippa the king and Bernice came down to Caesarea, to salute Festus.
And, as they were spending more days there, Festus, repeated, unto the king, the things relating to Paul, saying—A certain man, hath been left behind by Felix, as a prisoner;
concerning whom, when I happened to be in Jerusalem, the High-priests and the Elders of the Jews laid information, claiming against him a condemnation:
unto whom made answer—That it is not a custom with Romans, to grant as a favour any man, before the accused, face to face, should have his accusers, and, opportunity of defence, should receive, concerning the charge.
When, therefore, they had come together here, no delay whatever, making, on the next day, taking my place upon the judgment-seat, I ordered the man to be brought:
Concerning whom, taking their stand, his accusers, no accusation at all, were bringing, of the evil things which, I, had been suspecting;
but, certain questions concerning their own demon-worship, had they against him, and concerning one Jesus, who had died, whom Paul was affirming to be alive.
And, I, being at a loss as to the inquiry into these things, was asking—whether he might be minded to go unto Jerusalem, and, there, be judged concerning these things.
But, Paul, having appealed to be kept for the decision of the Emperor, I ordered him to be kept, until I could send him up unto Caesar.
And, Agrippa, [said] unto Festus—I could wish, myself also, to hear, the man. To-morrow, (saith he) thou shalt hear him.
On the morrow, therefore, when Agrippa had come, and Bernice, with great display, and they had entered into the audience-chamber, with the captains of thousands and men of distinction of the city,—and Festus had given orders, Paul was brought.
And Festus saith—King Agrippa! and all ye men, here present with us: Ye observe this person, concerning whom, one and all the throng of the Jews, have interceded with me, both in Jerusalem and here, crying aloud that he ought not to be living any longer.
But, I, gathered, that, nothing worthy of death, had he committed; and, this man himself, having appealed unto the Emperor, I decided to send him:—
Concerning whom, anything certain to write unto my lord, I have not; wherefore, I have brought him forth before you,—and especially before thee, King Agrippa! in order that, after examination had, I might have something I could write;
For, unreasonable, unto me, it seemeth, when sending a prisoner, not also, the accusations against him, to signify.