In the begynnynge God created heaven and erth.
The erth was voyde and emptie ad darcknesse was vpon the depe and the spirite of god moved vpon the water
Than God sayd: let there be lyghte and there was lyghte.
And God sawe the lyghte that it was good: and devyded the lyghte from the darcknesse
and called the lyghte daye and the darcknesse nyghte: and so of the evenynge and mornynge was made the fyrst daye
And God sayd: let there be a fyrmament betwene the waters ad let it devyde the waters a sonder.
Than God made the fyrmament and parted the waters which were vnder the fyrmament from the waters that were above the fyrmament: And it was so.
And God called the fyrmament heaven And so of the evenynge and morninge was made the seconde daye
And God sayd let the waters that are vnder heaven gather them selves vnto one place that the drye londe may appere: And it came so to passe.
And god called the drye lande the erth and the gatheringe togyther of waters called he the see. And God sawe that it was good
And God sayd: let the erth bringe forth herbe and grasse that sowe seed and frutefull trees that bere frute every one in his kynde havynge their seed in them selves vpon the erth. And it came so to passe:
ad the erth brought forth herbe and grasse sowenge seed every one in his kynde and trees berynge frute and havynge their seed in the selves every one in his kynde. And God sawe that it was good:
and the of the evenynge and mornynge was made the thyrde daye.
Than sayd God: let there be lyghtes in ye firmament of heaven to devyde the daye fro the nyghte that they may be vnto sygnes seasons days and yeares.
And let them be lyghtes in the fyrmament of heave to shyne vpon the erth. and so it was.
And God made two great lyghtes A greater lyghte to rule the daye and a lesse lyghte to rule the nyghte and he made sterres also.
And God put them in the fyrmament of heaven to shyne vpon the erth
and to rule the daye and the nyghte ad to devyde the lyghte from darcknesse. And god sawe yt it was good:
and so of the evenynge ad mornynge was made the fourth daye.
And God sayd let the water bryng forth creatures that move and have lyfe and foules for to flee over the erth vnder the fyrmament of heaven.
And God created greate whalles and all maner of creatures that lyve and moue which the waters brought forth in their kindes ad all maner of federed foules in their kyndes. And God sawe that it was good:
and God blessed them saynge. Growe and multiplye ad fyll the waters of the sees and let the foules multiplye vpo the erth.
And so of the evenynge and morninge was made the fyfth daye.
And God sayd: leth the erth bring forth lyvynge creatures in thir kyndes: catell and wormes and beastes of the erth in their kyndes and so it came to passe.
And god made the beastes of the erth in their kyndes and catell in their kyndes ad all maner wormes of the erth in their kyndes: and God sawe that it was good.
And God sayd: let vs make man in oure symilitude ad after oure lycknesse: that he may have rule over the fysh of the see and over the foules of the ayre and over catell and over all the erth and over all wormes that crepe on the erth.
And God created man after hys lycknesse after the lycknesse of god created he him: male and female created he them.
And God blessed them and God sayd vnto them. Growe and multiplye and fyll the erth and subdue it and have domynyon over the fysh of the see and over the foules of the ayre and over all the beastes that move on the erth.
And God sayd: se I have geven yow all herbes that sowe seed which are on all the erth and all maner trees that haue frute in them and sowe seed: to be meate for yow
and for all beastes of the erth and vnto all foules of the ayre and vnto all that crepeth on the erth where in is lyfe that they may haue all maner herbes and grasse for to eate and even so it was.
And God behelde al that he had made ad loo they were exceadynge good: and so of the evenynge and mornynge was made the syxth daye