But, concerning the times and the seasons, brethren,—ye have, no need, that, unto you, anything be written;
For, ye yourselves, perfectly well know—that, the day of the Lord, as a thief in the night, so, cometh;
As soon as they begin to say—Peace! and safety! then, suddenly, upon them, cometh destruction,—just as the birth-throe unto her that is with child,—and in nowise shall they escape.
But, ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that, the day, upon you, as upon thieves, should lay hold;
For, all ye, are, sons of light, and sons of day,—we are not of night, nor of darkness:
Hence, then, let us not be sleeping, as the rest, but let us watch and be sober:—
For, they that sleep, by night, do sleep, and, they that drink, by night, do drink:—
But, we, being of the day, let us be sober, putting on a breastplate of faith and love, and, for helmet, the hope of salvation.
Because God did not appoint us unto anger, but unto acquiring salvation through our Lord Jesus [Christ]:—
Who died for us, in order that, whether we be watching or sleeping, together with him, we should live.
Wherefore be consoling one another, and building up, each the other,—even as ye are also doing.
Now we request you, brethren,—to know them who are toiling among you, and presiding over you, in the Lord, and admonishing you;
And to hold them in very high esteem, in love, their work’s sake. Be at peace among yourselves,
But we exhort you, brethren—admonish the disorderly, soothe them of little soul, help the weak, be longsuffering towards all:
See that none, evil for evil, unto any, do render: but, evermore, what is good, be pursuing, towards one another, and towards all:
Evermore, rejoice,
Unceasingly, pray,
In everything, give thanks,—for, this, is a thing willed of God, in Christ Jesus, towards you:
The Spirit, do not quench,
Prophesyings, do not despise,
[But], all things, put to the proof—what is comely, hold ye fast:
From every form of wickedness, abstain.
But, the God of peace himself, hallow you completely, and, entire, might your spirit, and soul, and body,—[so as to be] unblameable in the Presence of our Lord Jesus Christ,—be preserved!
Faithful, is he that is calling you,—who, also will perform.
Brethren! be praying for us [also].
Salute all the brethren with a holy kiss.
I adjure you, by the Lord, that the letter be read unto all the brethren!
The favour of our Lord Jesus Christ, be with you.