A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet concerning erring ones:
Jehovah, I have heard Your report; I am afraid, Jehovah. Give new life to Your work in the midst of years, in the midst of years make known; in anger remember compassion.
God comes from Teman, and the Holy One from Mount Paran. Selah. His majesty covers the heavens, and His praise fills the earth.
And His brightness is as the light; rays from His hand are His, and there was a covering of His strength.
A plague goes before Him, and lightning went forth at His feet.
He stood and measured the earth; He looked and shook nations; and the ancient mountains were shattered; the eternal hills bowed down. The goings of eternity are His.
I saw the tents of Cushan under calamity; the curtains of the land of Midian trembled.
Did Jehovah burn against rivers? Or was Your anger against the rivers? Or Your fury against the sea? For You ride on horses; Your chariots of salvation.
You bare Your bow, naked according to the oaths of the rods of Your word. Selah. You have cut through the earth with rivers.
They saw You; mountains trembled. The storm of water passed over. The deep gave its voice and lifted up its hands on high.
The sun and moon stood still in their dwelling. At the light of Your arrows they go, at the shining of Your gleaming spear.
You march into the land in fury. You thresh nations in anger.
You went forth for the salvation of Your people, for the salvation of Your anointed. You struck the head from the house of the wicked to bare the foundation to the neck. Selah.
You pierced the head of his warriors with his shafts. They rush to scatter me; their rejoicing is to devour the meek in a secret place.
You trod in the sea with Your horses, the foaming of many waters.
I heard, and my belly trembled; my lips quivered at the sound. Rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled within myself that I might rest for the day of distress; to come up against the peoples; he cuts him off.
Though the fig tree shall not blossom, and fruit is not on the vines; the work of the olive fails, and the fields make no food; the flock is cut off from the fold, and no herd is in the stalls,
yet I will exult in Jehovah; I will rejoice in the God of my salvation.
Jehovah the Lord is my might, and He sets my feet like hinds' feet , and He will make me to walk on my high places. To the chief singer, on my stringed instruments.