And Moses called together all the assembly of the sons of Israel and said unto them,—These are the things which Yahweh hath commanded to do them.
Six days, shall work be done, but on the seventh day, shall there be to you a holy sabbath-keeping, unto Yahweh, whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death.
Ye shall not kindle a fire, in any of your dwellings,—on the sabbath day.
And Moses spake unto all the assembly of the sons of Israel, saying, This, is the thing which Yahweh hath commanded, saying,
Take ye from among you, a heave-offering to Yahweh, every one whose heart is willing shall bring it in, even the heave-offering of Yahweh, gold and silver and bronze:
and blue and purple and crimson and fine linen and goat’s-hair;
and rams’ skins dyed red, and badgers’ skins, and acacia wood;
and oil for giving light, and aromatic spices for the anointing oil, and for fragrant incense;
and onyx stones and setting stones, for the ephod, and for the breastpiece.
And, all the wise-hearted among you, shall come in, that they may make, all that which Yahweh hath commanded:—
the habitation, its tent, and its covering,—its clasps its boards, and its bars its pillars, and its sockets:
the ark with its staves the propitiatory, and the screening veil;
the table with its staves and all its utensils, and the Presence-bread:
the lampstand for giving light, with its utensils, and its lamps, and the oil for giving light;
and the incense altar, with its staves, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense,—and the entrance screen, for the entrance of the habitation;
the altar for the ascending-sacrifice, and the bronze grating which pertaineth thereto, its staves and all its utensils, the laver and its stand;
the hangings for the court, its pillars and its sockets,—and the screen for the gate of the court:
the pins of the habitation, and the pins of the court, and their cords;
the cloths of variegated stuff for ministering in the sanctuary,—the sacred garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for ministering as priests.
So all the assembly of the sons of Israel went forth from the presence of Moses;
and they brought in—every man whose heart lifted him up,—and, every one whose spirit made him willing, brought in the heave-offering of Yahweh, for the construction of the tent of meeting, and for all its service, and for the holy garments.
Yea they brought in—the men with the women,—all who were willing-hearted, brought in—bracelets and nose-ornaments and rings, and buckles, all manner of jewels of gold, even every man who waved a wave-offering of gold unto Yahweh.
And, every man with whom was found blue and purple and crimson and fine linen and goat’s-hair,—and rams’ skins dyed red and badgers’ skins brought them in.
Every one who would heave a heave-offering of silver or bronze, brought in the heave-offering of Yahweh,—and, every one with whom was found acacia wood for any construction for the service, brought it in.
And, all the women who were wise-hearted, with their hands, did spin,—and brought in that which they had spun—the blue, and the purple, the crimson, and the fine linen.
And, all the women whose hearts lifted them up with wisdom, span the goat’s-hair.
And the princes, brought in the onyx stones and the setting stones,—for the ephod and for the breastpiece;
and the aromatic spices, and the oil,—for giving light, and for anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense.
[In the case of], every male and woman whose heart, made them willing, to bring in for any construction which, Yahweh had commanded them to make, by the hand of Moses, [in their case] did the sons of Israel bring in a free-will offering unto Yahweh.
And Moses said unto the sons of Israel—See! Yahweh hath called by name,—Bezaleel son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;
and filled him with the spirit of God,—in, wisdom in understanding and in knowledge, and in all manner of execution;
to devise skilful designs,—to work in gold and in silver and in bronze;
and in the cutting of stones for setting, and in the cutting of wood,—to work in any manner of skilful workmanship,
To teach also, hath he put in his heart, [the heart of] him, and of Oholiab—son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan;
hath filled them with wisdom of heart to work all manner of workmanship of cutter, and deviser and embroiderer, in blue and in purple, in crimson and in fine linen and of the weaver,—workers of any manner of workmanship, and devisers of skilful designs.