Then came near the heads of the fathers of the Levites to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel;
And they spoke to them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, The LORD commanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to dwell in, with their common lands for our cattle.
And the children of Israel gave to the Levites out of their inheritance, at the commandment of the LORD, these cities and their common lands.
And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites: and the children of Aaron the priest, who were of the Levites, had by lot out of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin, thirteen cities.
And the rest of the children of Kohath had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.
And the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
The children of Merari by their families had out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the children of Israel gave by lot to the Levites these cities with their common lands, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.
And they gave out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, these cities which are here mentioned by name,
Which the children of Aaron, being of the families of the Kohathites, who were of the children of Levi, had: for theirs was the first lot.
And they gave them the city of Arba the father of Anak, which city is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, with its common lands around it.
But the fields of the city, and its villages, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession.
Thus they gave to the children of Aaron the priest Hebron with its common lands, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Libnah with its common lands,
And Jattir with its common lands, and Eshtemoa with its common lands,
And Holon with its common lands, and Debir with its common lands,
And Ain with its common lands, and Juttah with its common lands, and Bethshemesh with its common lands; nine cities out of those two tribes.
And out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with its common lands, Geba with its common lands,
Anathoth with its common lands, and Almon with its common lands; four cities.
All the cities of the children of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities with their common lands.
And the families of the children of Kohath, the Levites who remained of the children of Kohath, even they had the cities of their lot out of the tribe of Ephraim.
For they gave them Shechem with its common lands in mount Ephraim, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Gezer with its common lands,
And Kibzaim with its common lands, and Bethhoron with its common lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with its common lands, Gibbethon with its common lands,
Aijalon with its common lands, Gathrimmon with its common lands; four cities.
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with its common lands, and Gathrimmon with its common lands; two cities.
All the cities were ten with their common lands for the families of the children of Kohath that remained.
And to the children of Gershon, of the families of the Levites, out of the other half tribe of Manasseh they gave Golan in Bashan with its common lands, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Beeshterah with its common lands; two cities.
And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishon with its common lands, Dabareh with its common lands,
Jarmuth with its common lands, Engannim with its common lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its common lands, Abdon with its common lands,
Helkath with its common lands, and Rehob with its common lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its common lands, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Hammothdor with its common lands, and Kartan with its common lands; three cities.
All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families were thirteen cities with their common lands.
And to the families of the children of Merari, the rest of the Levites, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with its common lands, and Kartah with its common lands,
Dimnah with its common lands, Nahalal with its common lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with its common lands, and Jahazah with its common lands,
Kedemoth with its common lands, and Mephaath with its common lands; four cities.
And out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its common lands, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Mahanaim with its common lands,
Heshbon with its common lands, Jazer with its common lands; four cities in all.
So all the cities for the children of Merari by their families, which were remaining of the families of the Levites, were by their lot twelve cities.
All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the children of Israel were forty and eight cities with their common lands.
These cities were every one with their common lands surrounding them: thus were all these cities.
And the LORD gave to Israel all the land which he swore to give to their fathers; and they possessed it, and dwelt in it.
And the LORD gave them rest on all sides, according to all that he swore to their fathers: and there stood not a man of all their enemies before them; the LORD delivered all their enemies into their hand.
There failed nothing of any good thing which the LORD had spoken to the house of Israel; all came to pass.