Behold what manner of love the Father has given us, that we should be called children of God. Therefore the world does not know us, because it did not know Him.
Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be. But we know that when He shall be revealed, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is.
And everyone who has this hope on him purifies himself, even as that One is pure.
Everyone who practices sin also practices lawlessness, for sin is lawlessness.
And you know that He was revealed that He might take away our sins, and in Him is no sin.
Everyone who abides in Him does not sin. Everyone who sins has not seen Him nor known Him.
Little children, let no one deceive you. He who does righteousness is righteous, even as that One is righteous.
He who practices sin is of the Devil, for the Devil sins from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was revealed, that He might undo the works of the Devil.
Everyone who has been born of God does not commit sin, because His seed remains in him, and he cannot sin, because he has been born of God.
In this the children of God are revealed, and the children of the Devil: everyone not practicing righteousness is not of God, also he who does not love his brother.
For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another;
not as Cain who was of the evil one, and killed his brother. And for what did he kill him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's things were righteous.
Do not marvel, my brothers, if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brothers. He who does not love his brother abides in death.
Everyone hating his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has everlasting life abiding in him.
By this we have known the love of God, because He laid down His life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.
But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother having need, and shuts up his bowels from him, how does the love of God dwell in him?
My children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth.
And in this we shall know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before Him,
that if our heart accuses us, God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart does not accuse us, we have confidence toward God.
And whatever we ask, we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do those things that are pleasing in His sight.
And this is His commandment, that we should believe on the name of His Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as He gave us commandment.
And he who keeps His commandment dwells in Him, and He in him. And by this we know that He abides in us, by the Spirit which He gave to us.