And it shall be, when you have come into the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you as an inheritance, and you have possessed it, and live in it;
then you shall take of the first of all the fruit of the ground which you shall bring in from your land which Jehovah your God is giving to you, and shall put it in a basket, and shall go to the place which Jehovah your God shall choose to cause His name to dwell there.
And you shall come to the priest who is in those days, and shall say to him, I declare today to Jehovah your God that I have come into the land which Jehovah has sworn to our fathers to give to us.
And the priest shall take the basket out of your hand and place it before the altar of Jehovah your God.
And you shall speak and say before Jehovah your God, My father was a perishing Aramean! And he went down to Egypt with few men, and lived there, and became a nation there, great, mighty and many.
And the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and put hard labor on us.
And we cried to Jehovah, the God of our fathers, and Jehovah heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our labor, and our oppression.
And Jehovah brought us out from Egypt by a mighty hand, and by a stretched out arm, and by great terribleness, and with signs, and with wonders.
And He has brought us to this place, and has given to us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
And now, behold, I have brought in the first of the fruits of the ground which You have given me, O Jehovah. And you shall place it before Jehovah your God, and bow yourself before Jehovah your God,
and rejoice in all the good which Jehovah your God has given to you, and to your house, you, and the Levite, and the alien who is in your midst.
When you have made an end of tithing all the tithes of your increase the third year, the year of tithing, and have given it to the Levite, the alien, the orphan, and the widow, that they may eat inside your gates, and be filled,
then you shall say before Jehovah your God I have consumed the devoted things from the house, and also have given them to the Levite, and to the alien, to the orphan, and to the widow, according to all Your command which You have commanded me. I have not transgressed Your commands, and I have not forgotten.
I have not eaten of it in my mourning; nor have I put any of it away for uncleanness; nor have I given of it for the dead. I have listened to the voice of Jehovah my God. I have done according to all that You have commanded me.
Look down from Your holy habitation, from Heaven, and bless Your people Israel, and the land which You have given to us, as You swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Today Jehovah your God commands you to do these statutes and ordinances. You shall take heed to do them with all your heart, and with all your soul.
You have today declared Jehovah to be your God, and to walk in His ways, and to keep His statutes and His commands, and His judgments, and to pay attention to His voice.
And Jehovah has declared you today to be His people, a special treasure as He has spoken to you, and to keep all His commands.
And He will make you high above all nations that He has made, in praise, and in name, and in glory; and that you may be a holy people to Jehovah your God, as He has spoken.