O INFATUATED Galatians, who hath bewitched you that ye should not obey the truth? To whom Jesus Christ has been described, as before your eyes, crucified among you.
This only would I learn of you, Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or from hearing of the faith?
Are ye so senseless? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect in the flesh?
have ye suffered so many things in vain? if it be yet in vain.
He therefore who ministereth to you a supply of the Spirit, and powerfully worketh miracles among you, doth he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of the faith?
as Abraham believed in God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness.
Know then that they who are of faith, these are the children of Abraham.
And the scripture foreseeing that by faith God would justify the Gentiles, preached the gospel before unto Abraham, saying, that “In thee shall all the nations be blessed.”
Wherefore they who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham.
For as many as are of the works of the law, are under a curse: for it is written, “Cursed is every one who continueth not in all the things written in the book of the law to do them.”
But that by the law no man is justified before God is evident: because “The just by faith shall live.”
Now the law is not by faith: but “The man that doeth these things shall live by them.”
Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written, “Cursed is every one who is hanged on a tree:”
that unto the Gentiles the benediction pronounced on Abraham might come by Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit by faith.
Brethren, I speak humanly; to use a similitude, a man’s testament, if it be passed in legal form, no man can vacate, or add thereunto.
But to Abraham were the promises spoken, and to his seed. He saith not, To seeds, as unto many persons; but as to an individual, and to thy seed, which is Christ.
Now this I say, the covenant confirmed of God to Christ, the law, which was given three hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, so as to vacate the promise.
For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no more by promise; but to Abraham God gave it freely by promise.
To what end then was the law given? It was given on account of transgressions, until that seed should come to whom the promise was made, being delivered through the ministry of angels into the hand of a mediator.
But the mediator of the one seed he is not, though God is one.
Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? God forbid. For if there had been a law given which was capable of procuring life, verily righteousness would have been by the law.
But the scripture hath shut up all things under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
But before the faith came, we were in ward under the law, shut up together for the faith that should be revealed.
Wherefore the law was our conductor, as of children, to Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
But when faith was come, we were no longer under a paedagogue.
For ye are all the sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For as many of you as have been baptised into Christ, have been invested with Christ.
There is no more Jew or Gentile, there is no more slave or freeman, there is no more male or female: but ye are all one in Christ Jesus.
But if ye are Christ’s, then are ye Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise.