And these are the generations of Esau; that is Edom.
Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah, the daughter of Elon the Hittite; and Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite;
and Basemath, the daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebajoth.
And Adah bore Eliphaz and Reuel. And Basemath bore Reuel.
And Oholibamah bore Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. These were the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the souls of his house, and his livestock, and all the beasts of burden, and all his property which he had gained in Canaan, and he went to a land away from his brother Jacob.
For their possessions had become too great for them to dwell together. And the land was not able to bear their travels, because of their livestock.
And Esau dwelt on Mount Seir. Esau is Edom.
And these were the generations of Esau, the father of Edom on Mount Seir;
these the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz, the son of Adah, Esau's wife; Reuel, the son of Basemath, Esau's wife.
And the sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.
And Timna was a concubine to Esau's son, Eliphaz, and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These were the sons of Esau's wife Adah.
And the sons of Reuel: Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were the sons of Basemath, the wife of Esau.
And these were the sons of Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon, the wife of Esau; even she bore Jeush to Esau, and Jaalam, and Korah.
These were the chiefs of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz, the first born of Esau: Chief Teman, Chief Omar, Chief Zepho, Chief Kenaz,
Chief Korah, Chief Gatam, Chief Amalek. These were the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom. These were the sons of Adah.
And these were the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: Chief Nahath, Chief Zerah, Chief Shammah, Chief Mizzah. These were the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Edom. These were the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife.
And the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: Chief Jeush, Chief Jaalam, Chief Korah. These were the chiefs of Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
These were the sons of Esau, and these their chiefs; he is Edom.
These were the sons of Seir the Horite living in the land: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,
and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. These were the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir, in the land of Edom.
And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Heman; and Lotan's sister, Timna.
And these were the sons of Shobal: Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
And these were the sons of Zibeon, even Aiah and Anah; he is the Anah who found the hot springs in the desert as he fed the asses for his father Zibeon.
And these were the sons of Anah: Dishon; and Oholibamah was the daughter of Anah.
And these were the sons of Dishan: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
These were the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.
These were the sons of Dishan: Uz, and Aran.
These were the chiefs of the Horites: Chief Lotan, Chief Shobal, Chief Zibeon, Chief Anah,
Chief Dishon, Chief Ezer, Chief Dishan. These were the chiefs of the Horites, according to their chiefs in the land of Seir.
And these were the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before the reigning of a king over the sons of Israel.
And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his city, Dinhabah.
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah, from Bozrah, reigned in his place.
And Jobab died, and Husham from the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place; and the name of his city, Avith.
And Hadad died, and Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.
And Samlah died, and Shaul from Rehoboth by the River reigned in his place.
And Shaul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place.
And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name, Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
And these were the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their families, according to their places, by their names: Chief Timnah, Chief Alvah, Chief Jetheth,
Chief Oholibamah, Chief Elah, Chief Pinon,
Chief Kenaz, Chief Teman, Chief Mibzar,
Chief Magdiel, Chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom, according to their dwellings, in the land of their possession; he is Esau, the father of Edom.