Judge not, that you may not be judged.
For with whatever judgment you judge, you shall be judged; and with whatever measure you measure out, it shall be measured to you again.
And why do you look on the splinter that is in your brother's eye, but do not consider the beam that is in your own eye?
Or how will you say to your brother, Let me pull the splinter out of your eye; and, behold, a beam is in your own eye?
Hypocrite! First cast the beam out of your own eye, and then you shall see clearly to cast the splinter out of your brother's eye.
Do not give that which is holy to the dogs; nor cast your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and tear you.
Ask and it shall be given to you; seek and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened to you.
For each one who asks receives; and he who seeks finds; and to him who knocks, it shall be opened.
Or what man is there of you, if his son asks a loaf, will he give him a stone?
Or if he asks a fish, will he give him a snake?
If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your Father in Heaven give good things to those who ask Him?
Therefore all things, whatever you desire that men should do to you, do even so to them; for this is the Law and the Prophets.
Go in through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many there are who go in through it.
Because narrow is the gate and constricted is the way which leads to life, and there are few who find it.
Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
You shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
Even so every good tree brings forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree brings forth evil fruit.
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruits, nor can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Every tree that does not bring forth good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Therefore by their fruits you shall know them.
Not everyone who says to Me, Lord! Lord! shall enter the kingdom of Heaven, but he who does the will of My Father in Heaven.
Many will say to Me in that day, Lord! Lord! Did we not prophesy in Your name, and through Your name throw out demons, and through Your name do many wonderful works?
And then I will say to them I never knew you! Depart from Me, those working lawlessness!
Therefore whoever hears these sayings of Mine, and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on a rock.
And the rain came down, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house. And it did not fall, for it was founded on a rock.
And everyone who hears these sayings of Mine and does not do them shall be compared to a foolish man who built his house on the sand.
And the rain came down, and the floods came, and the wind blew and beat on that house. And it fell, and great was its fall.
And it happened, when Jesus had ended these sayings, that the people were astonished at His doctrine.
For He taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.