Give ye thanks to Yahweh, Call upon his Name, Make known, among the peoples, his doings;
Sing ye to him, Make ye music to him, Speak ye of all his wonders.
Make your boast in his holy Name, Joyful be the heart of them who are seeking Yahweh.
Search out Yahweh and his strength, Seek diligently his face at all times.
Remember his wonders which he hath done, His portents, and the just decisions of his mouth.
O ye Seed of Abraham—his servants, Sons of Jacob—his chosen ones:
Yahweh himself, is our God, Through all the land, are his just decision.
He hath remembered, unto times age-abiding, his covenant, The word he commanded, to a thousand generations;
Which he solemnised with Abraham, and his oath, to Isaac;
And confirmed it unto Jacob for a statute, To Israel, as a covenant age-abiding;
Saying, To thee, will I give the land of Canaan, As your inherited portion;
While as yet they were men easily counted,—A very few, and sojourners therein;
And they wandered from nation to nation, From a kingdom, to another people.
He suffered no son of earth to oppress them, And reproved—for their sakes—[even] kings!
Ye may not touch mine Anointed ones, And, to my Prophets, may ye do no wrong.
Then called he a famine over the land, All the staff of bread, he brake;
He sent before them a man, For a slave, was he sold—[even] Joseph;
They forced, into a fetter, his foot, Into the iron, entered his soul;
Until the time when his word came to pass, Speech of Yahweh, proved him;
The king sent, and set him free, One having dominion over peoples, yet loosed he his bonds;
He appointed him lord to his household, And one having dominion over all he possessed;
That he might bind his rulers as he pleased, And, his elders, he might embue with wisdom.
So Israel came into Egypt, And, Jacob, sojourned in the land of Ham;
And he made his people exceeding fruitful,—And caused them to become stronger than their adversaries.
He let them turn their heart—To hate his people, To deal treacherously with his servants;
He sent Moses his servant, Aaron, whom he had chosen.
He set among them his threatening signs, And his wonders, in the land of Ham;
He sent darkness, and made it dark, But they rebelled against his words;
He turned their waters into blood, And so caused their fish to die;
Their land swarmed with frogs, In the chambers of their kings!
He spake, and there came in the gad-fly, Gnats, in all their bounds;
He made their showers—hail, A fire flaming throughout their land;
And he smote their vines, and their fig-trees, And brake in pieces the trees of their bounds;
He spake—then came the swarming locust,—The devouring locust, and that without number;
And devoured all the herbage in their land, And devoured the fruit of their ground.
Then smote he every firstborn in their land, The beginning of all their strength;
Thus brought he them forth, with silver and gold, Nor was there, throughout his tribes, one that faltered;
Egypt rejoiced when they went out, For the dread of them had fallen upon them.
He spread out a cloud as a covering, And fire, to give light by night,
They asked, and he brought in the quail,—And, with the bread of the heavens, he satisfied them;
He opened the rock, and there gushed forth waters, They flowed along, through parched places, as a river;
For he remembered his holy word, With Abraham his servant.
Thus brought he forth his people with gladness,—With shouts of triumph, his chosen ones;
And gave them, the lands of the nations, And, of the toil of the peoples, took they possession:
In order that they might observe his statutes, And, over his laws, might keep watch, Praise ye Yah.