And it came to pass when Jesus finished directing his twelve disciples, he departed from there to teach and preach in their cities.
Now when John heard in the prison the works of the Christ, having sent two of his disciples,
he said to him, Are thou he who comes, or do we look for another man?
And having answered, Jesus said to them, After going, report to John the things that ye hear and see:
the blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor are proclaimed good news.
And blessed is he, whoever will not be caused to stumble by me.
And while those men departed, Jesus began to say to the multitudes about John, What did ye go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
But what did ye go out to see? A man clothed in delicate clothes? Behold, those wearing delicate things are in king's houses.
But what did ye go out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say to you, and more than a prophet.
For this is he about whom it is written, Behold, I send my agent before thy face who will prepare thy way before thee.
Truly I say to you, among men born of women there has not been raised a greater than John the immerser. Yet the smaller in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he.
And from the days of John the immerser until now the kingdom of the heavens is treated aggressively, and aggressors seize it.
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
And if ye are willing to receive it, he is Elijah who is going to come.
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces, calling to their companions,
and saying, We piped to you, and ye did not dance, we mourned to you, and ye did not beat the breast.
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon.
The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold the man, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners! And wisdom is justified from her children.
Then he began to upbraid the cities in which most of his mighty works occurred, because they did not repent.
Woe to thee, Chorazin! Woe to thee, Bethsaida! Because if the mighty works that occurred in you occurred in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
Nevertheless I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you.
And thou, Capernaum, which was exalted as far as the sky. Thou will be brought down as far as Hades, because if the mighty works had occurred in Sodom that occurred in thee, it would have remained until this day.
Nevertheless I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee.
Jesus having responded at that time, said, I extol thee, O Father, Lord of the heaven and the earth, because thou hid these things from the wise and intelligent, and revealed them to the childlike.
Yea, Father, because this way it was done pleasing in thy sight.
All things were delivered to me by my Father. And no man knows the Son, except the Father, nor does any man know the Father, except the Son, and he to whomever the Son wants to reveal him.
Come to me, all ye who labor and have been burdened, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, because I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye will find rest for your souls.
For my yoke is befitting, and my burden is light.