Then responded Job, and said:—
I have heard many such things, Wearisome comforters, are ye all!
Is there to be an end to windy words? Or what so strongly exciteth thee, that thou must respond?
I also, like you, could speak,—If your soul were in the place of my soul, I could string together words against you, and could therewith shake over you my head.
I could make you determined, by my mouth, and then my lip-solace should restrain you.
Though I do speak, unassuaged is my stinging pain,—And, if I forbear, of what am I relieved?
But, now, hath he wearied me, thou hast destroyed all my family;
And, having captured me, it hath served, as a witness; and so my wasting away hath risen up against me, in my face, it answereth.
His anger, hath torn and persecuted me, He hath gnashed upon me with his teeth, Mine adversary, hath sharpened his eyes for me.
They have gaped upon me with their mouth, With reproach, have they smitten my cheek, Together, against me, have they closed their ranks.
GOD doth abandon me to him that is perverse, and, into the hands of the lawless, he throweth me headlong.
At ease, was I when he shattered me, Yea he seized me by my neck, and dashed me in pieces, then set me up for himself as a mark:
His archers came round against me, He clave asunder my reins, and spared not, He poured out, on the earth, my gall:
He made a breach in me, breach upon breach, He ran upon me, like a mighty man.
Sackcloth, sewed I on my skin, and rolled—in the dust—my horn:
My face, is reddened from weeping, and, upon mine eyelashes, is the death-shade:—
Though no violence was in my hands, and, my prayer, was pure.
O earth! do not cover my blood, and let there be no place for mine outcry.
Even now, lo! in the heavens, is my witness,
And, he that voucheth for me is on high. My friends are, they who scorn me, Unto GOD, hath mine eye shed tears:—
That one might plead, for a man, with GOD,—Even a son of man, for his friend!
When, a few years, come, then, by a path by which I shall not return, shall I depart.