Then the heads of the fathers of the Levites came near unto Eleazar the priest and unto Joshua, the son of Nun, and unto the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel;
and they spoke unto them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, The LORD commanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to dwell in with the suburbs thereof for our beasts.
Then the sons of Israel gave unto the Levites out of their possessions, according to the word of the LORD, these cities and their suburbs.
And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites; and the sons of Aaron the priest, [who were] of the Levites, had by lot out of the tribe of Judah and out of the tribe of Simeon and out of the tribe of Benjamin, thirteen cities.
And the rest of the sons of Kohath [had] by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim and out of the tribe of Dan and out of the half tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.
And the sons of Gershon [had] by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar and out of the tribe of Asher and out of the tribe of Naphtali and out of the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
The sons of Merari by their families [had] out of the tribe of Reuben and out of the tribe of Gad and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
Thus the sons of Israel gave by lot unto the Levites these cities with their suburbs, as the LORD had commanded by the hand of Moses.
And they gave out of the tribe of the sons of Judah and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon these cities which are [here] mentioned by name;
and the first lot was of the sons of Aaron, of the family of Kohath, of the sons of Levi;
and they gave them the city of Arba of the father of Anak, which [is] Hebron, in the mountain of Judah, with its suburbs round about.
But the fields of the city and the villages thereof, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession.
Thus they gave to the sons of Aaron the priest Hebron with its suburbs, [to be] a city of refuge for murderers and Libnah with its suburbs
and Jattir with its suburbs and Eshtemoa with its suburbs
and Holon with its suburbs and Debir with its suburbs
and Ain with its suburbs and Juttah with its suburbs [and] Bethshemesh with its suburbs: nine cities out of those two tribes.
And out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with its suburbs, Geba with its suburbs,
Anathoth with its suburbs, and Almon with its suburbs: four cities.
All these cities of the priests, the sons of Aaron, [are] thirteen cities with their suburbs.
But the families of the sons of Kohath, Levites, those who remained of the sons of Kohath, received cities by lot out of the tribe of Ephraim.
For they gave them Shechem with its suburbs in the mountain of Ephraim, [to be] a city of refuge for murderers, and Gezer with its suburbs,
Kibzaim with its suburbs, Bethhoron with its suburbs: four cities.
And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with its suburbs, Gibbethon with its suburbs,
Aijalon with its suburbs, Gathrimmon with its suburbs: four cities.
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with its suburbs and Gathrimmon with its suburbs: two cities.
All the cities [were] ten with their suburbs for the remaining families of the sons of Kohath.
And unto the sons of Gershon, of the families of the Levites, out of the [other] half tribe of Manasseh [they gave] Golan in Bashan with its suburbs, [to be] a city of refuge for murderers, and Beeshterah with its suburbs: two cities.
And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishon with its suburbs, Dabareh with its suburbs,
Jarmuth with its suburbs, Engannim with its suburbs: four cities.
And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its suburbs, Abdon with its suburbs,
Helkath with its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs: four cities.
And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its suburbs, [to be] a city of refuge for murderers, and Hammothdor with its suburbs and Kartan with its suburbs: three cities.
All the cities of those of Gershon according to their families [were] thirteen cities with their suburbs.
And unto the families of the sons of Merari, Levites that remained, out of the tribe of Zebulun [they gave them], Jokneam with its suburbs and Kartah with its suburbs,
Dimnah with its suburbs, Nahalal with its suburbs: four cities.
And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer and Jahazah,
Kedemoth, and Mephaath: four cities.
And out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with its suburbs, [to be] a city of refuge for murderers; and Mahanaim with its suburbs,
Heshbon with its suburbs, Jazer with its suburbs; four cities in all.
So all the cities for the sons of Merari by their families, who remained of the families of the Levites, were [by] their lot twelve cities.
All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the sons of Israel [were] forty-eight cities with their suburbs.
Each one of these cities were separated with their suburbs round about them; thus [were] all these cities.
Thus the LORD gave unto Israel all the land which he swore to give unto their fathers; and they possessed it and dwelt therein.
And the LORD gave them rest round about, according to all that he had sworn unto their fathers; and none of their enemies could stand before them; the LORD delivered all their enemies into their hands.
There failed not a word of all the good things which the LORD had spoken unto the house of Israel; all of it came to pass.: