After speaking these things, Jesus went forth with his disciples on the other side of the brook Kidron, where there was a garden into which he entered, he and his disciples.
Now Judas, the man betraying him, had also known the place, because Jesus also often gathered there with his disciples.
Judas therefore having received the band and subordinates from the chief priests and the Pharisees, comes there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
Jesus therefore knowing all the things that were coming upon him, after going forth, he says to them, Whom seek ye?
They answered him, Jesus the Nazarene. Jesus says to them, I am he. And Judas, the man betraying him had also stood with them.
When therefore he said to them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground.
Again therefore he questioned them, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene.
Jesus answered, I told you that I am. If therefore ye seek me, allow these men to go,
so that the word that he spoke might be fulfilled, Of whom thou have given me, I lost, no, not one of them.
Simon Peter therefore, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's bondman, and cut off his right ear. Now the servant's name was Malchus.
Jesus therefore said to Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath. The cup that the Father has given me, shall I, no, not drink it?
So the band, and the chief captain, and the subordinates of the Jews, arrested Jesus and bound him,
and led him away first to Annas. For he was father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
Now Caiaphas was the man who counseled the Jews that it was expedient for one man to die on behalf of the people.
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, also the other disciple. But that disciple was known to the high priest, and he went in with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest.
But Peter had stood near the door outside. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper and brought in Peter.
Therefore the servant girl (the doorkeeper) says to Peter, Are thou not also of this man's disciples? That man says, I am not.
Now the bondmen and the subordinates had stood, having made a fire of coals because it was cold, and they were warming themselves. And Peter was also standing with them warming himself.
The high priest therefore asked Jesus about his disciples, and about his doctrine.
Jesus answered him, I spoke in public to the world. I always taught in a synagogue, and in the temple where the Jews always gather together, and I spoke nothing in secret.
Why question thou me? Question those who have heard what I said to them. Behold, these know the things that I said.
And when he said these things, one of the subordinates standing by gave a slap to Jesus, saying, Answer thou the high priest this way?
Jesus answered him, If I spoke wrongly, testify about the wrong, but if correctly, why strike me?
Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Therefore they said to him, Are thou not also of his disciples? That man therefore denied, and said, I am not.
One of the bondmen of the high priest, being a kinsman of him whose ear Peter cut off, says, Did I not see thee in the garden with him?
Peter therefore denied again, and straightaway a cock sounded.
They lead Jesus therefore from Caiaphas to the Praetorium. And it was early, and they did not enter into the Praetorium, so that they would not be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover.
Pilate therefore went out to them, and said, What accusation do ye bring against this man?
They answered and said to him, If this man were not an evildoer, we would not have delivered him up to thee.
Pilate therefore said to them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said to him, It is not permitted for us to kill any man,
so that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled that he spoke, signifying what kind of death he was going to die.
Pilate therefore again entered into the Praetorium, and called Jesus, and said to him, Are thou the king of the Jews?
Jesus answered, Do thou say this of thyself, or did others tell thee about me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests delivered thee to me. What have thou done?
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world my subordinates would have fought so that I would not be delivered to the Jews, but now my kingdom is not from here.
Pilate therefore said to him, Then thou are a king? Jesus answered, Thou say that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world, that I would testify to the truth. Every man who is of the truth hears my voice.
Pilate says to him, What is truth? And having said this, he went out again to the Jews, and says to them, I find not one cause in him.
But there is a custom for you that I should release to you one man at the Passover. Do ye wish therefore I would release to you the king of the Jews?
They all cried out again therefore, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. But Barabbas was a robber.