And Benjamin begot Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third;
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
And Bela had sons, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud;
and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah;
and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
And these are the sons of Ehud--these are the heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried captive to Manahath;
and Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera, were they that carried them captive--and he begot Uzza, and Ahihud.
And Shaharaim begot children in the field of Moab, after he had sent them away, to wit, Hushim and Baara his wives;
he begot of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam;
and Jeuz, and Sachiah, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses.
and of Hushim he begot Abitub, and Elpaal.
And the sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono, and Lod, with the towns thereof;
and Beriah, and Shema, who were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath.
And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth;
and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder;
and Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, were the sons of Beriah.
And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber;
and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab, were the sons of Elpaal.
And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi;
and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel;
and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, were the sons of Shimei.
And Ishpan, and Ebed, and Eliel;
and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan;
and Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothiah;
and Iphdeiah, and Penuel, were the sons of Shashak.
And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah;
and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri, were the sons of Jeroham.
These were heads of fathers' houses throughout their generations, chief men; these dwelt in Jerusalem.
And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah;
and his first-born son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab;
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher.
And Mikloth begot Shimeah. And they also dwelt with their brethren in Jerusalem, over against their brethren.
And Ner begot Kish; and Kish begot Saul; and Saul begot Jonathan, and Malchi-shua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal begot Micah.
And the sons of Micah; Pithon, and Melech, and Taarea, and Ahaz.
And Ahaz begot Jehoaddah; and Jehoaddah begot Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza;
and Moza begot Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
And Azel had six sons, whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
And the sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valour, archers; and had many sons, and sons' sons, a hundred and fifty. All these were of the sons of Benjamin.