When the LORD thy God shall bring thee into the land into which thou must enter to inherit it and has cast out many Gentiles before thee, the Hittite and the Girgashite and the Amorite and the Canaanite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite, seven nations greater and mightier than thou;
and when the LORD thy God shall deliver them before thee, thou shalt smite them [and] utterly destroy them; thou shalt make no covenant with them nor show mercy unto them.
Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son.
For they will turn away thy son from following me that they may serve other gods; and the anger of the LORD will be kindled upon you and destroy thee suddenly.
But thus shall ye deal with them: ye shall destroy their altars and break down their images and cut down their groves and burn their graven images in the fire.
For thou [art] a holy people unto the LORD thy God; the LORD thy God has chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, different from all the peoples that [are] upon the face of the earth.
Not because ye were more than the other peoples has the LORD desired you and chosen you; for ye [were] the fewest of all the peoples;
but because the LORD loved you and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, has the LORD brought you out with a mighty hand and ransomed you out of the house of bondage from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt.
Know, therefore, that the LORD thy God, he [is] God, the faithful God, who keeps covenant and mercy with those that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations
and repays him that hates him to his face, to destroy him; he will not be slack to him that hates him; he will repay him to his face.
Keep, therefore, the commandments and statutes and rights, which I command thee this day, to do them.
And it shall come to pass, for having heard these rights and for having kept them [by] doing them that the LORD thy God shall keep the covenant with thee and the mercy which he swore unto thy fathers;
and he will love thee and bless thee and multiply thee; he will also bless the fruit of thy womb and the fruit of thy land, thy grain and thy wine and thine oil, the increase of thy cows and the flocks of thy sheep, in the land which he swore unto thy fathers to give thee.
Thou shalt be blessed above all peoples; there shall not be male or female barren among you or among your beasts.
And the LORD will take away from thee all sickness and will put none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which thou knowest, upon thee, but will lay them upon all [those] that hate thee.
And thou shalt consume all the peoples which the LORD thy God shall deliver thee; thine eye shall have no pity upon them; neither shalt thou serve their gods; for that will be] a snare unto thee.
When thou shalt say in thy heart, These Gentiles [are] more than I; how can I dispossess them?
Do not be afraid of them; remember well what the LORD thy God did with Pharaoh and with all Egypt;
of the great trials which thine eyes saw and the signs and the wonders and the mighty hand and the outstretched arm, by which the LORD thy God brought thee out; so shall the LORD thy God do unto all the peoples of whose presence thou art afraid.
Moreover the LORD thy God will send the hornet among them until those that are left and hide themselves from thee are destroyed.
Thou shalt not faint before them; for the LORD thy God is among you, a great and terrible God.
And the LORD thy God will put out those Gentiles before thee little by little; thou may not consume them at once lest the beasts of the field increase upon thee.
But the LORD thy God shall deliver them before thee and shall destroy them with a mighty destruction until they are destroyed.
And he shall deliver their kings into thy hand, and thou shalt destroy their name from under heaven; no one shall be able to stand before thee until thou hast destroyed them.
The graven images of their gods ye shall burn in the fire; thou shalt not desire the silver or gold [that is] on them nor take [it] unto thee lest thou be snared therein; for it is an abomination to the LORD thy God.
Neither shalt thou bring an abomination into thine house lest thou become an anathema like it, [but] thou shalt utterly detest it, and thou shalt utterly abhor it; for it [is] anathema.: