Do not let your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me.
In my Father’s Home there are many dwellings. If it had not been so, I should have told you, for I am going to prepare a place for you.
And, since I go and prepare a place for you, I will return and take you to be with me, so that you may be where I am;
and you know the way to the place where I am going.”
“We do not know where you are going, Master,” said Thomas; “so how can we know the way?”
Jesus answered: “I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one ever comes to the Father except through me.
If you had recognised me, you would have known my Father also; for the future you will recognise him, indeed you have already seen him.”
“Master, show us the Father,” said Philip, “and we will be satisfied.”
“Have I been all this time among you,”said Jesus, “and yet you, Philip, have not recognised me? The person who has seen me has seen the Father, how can you say, then, ‘Show us the Father’?
Do not you believe that I am in union with the Father, and the Father with me? In giving you my teaching I am not speaking on my own authority; but the Father himself, always in union with me, does his own work.
Believe me,” he said to them all, “when I say that I am in union with the Father and the Father with me, or else believe me because of the work itself.
In truth I tell you, the person who believes in me will themselves do the work that I am doing; and they will do greater work still, because I am going to the Father.
Whatever you ask, in my name, I will do, so that the Father may be honoured in the Son.
If you ask anything, in my name, I will do it.
If you love me, you will lay my commands to heart,
and I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, to be with you always — the Spirit of truth.
The world cannot receive this Spirit, because it does not see him or recognise him, but you recognise him, because he is always with you, and is within you.
I will not leave you bereaved; I will come to you.
In a little while the world will see me no more, but you will still see me; because I am living, you will be living also.
At that time you will recognise that I am in union with the Father, and you with me, and I with you.
It is they who have my commands and lays them to heart that loves me; and the person who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love them, and will reveal myself to them.”
“What has happened, Master,” said Judas (not Judas Iscariot), “that you are going to reveal yourself to us, and not to the world?”
“Whoever loves me,”Jesus answered,“will lay my message to heart; and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.
The person who does not love me will not lay my message to heart; and the message to which you are listening is not my own, but comes from the Father who sent me.
I have told you all this while still with you,
but the helper — the Holy Spirit whom the Father will send in my name — will teach you all things, and will recall to your minds all that I have said to you.
Peace be with you! My own peace I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled, or dismayed.
You heard me say that I was going away and would return to you. Had you loved me, you would have been glad that I was going to the Father, because the Father is greater than I.
And this I have told you now before it happens, so that, when it does happen, you may still believe in me.
I will not talk with you much more, for the Spirit that is ruling the world is coming. He has nothing in common with me;
but he is coming so that the world may see that I love the Father, and that I do as the Father commanded me. Come, let us be going.