And it happened, after the plague, Jehovah spoke to Moses, and to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying,
Lift the heads of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, throughout their fathers' house, all that are able to go to war in Israel.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab beside Jordan, at Jericho, saying,
Count from a son of twenty years and upward, as Jehovah commanded Moses and the sons of Israel, who went forth out of the land of Egypt.
Reuben, the first-born of Israel, the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites;
from Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.
These are the families of the Reubenites; and those who were numbered with them were forty three thousand, seven hundred and thirty.
And the son of Pallu was Eliab.
And the sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This is that Dathan and Abiram who were called ones in the congregation, who fought against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they fought against Jehovah.
And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah, at the death of that company, when the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men. And they became a sign;
but the sons of Korah did not die.
The sons of Simeon according to their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites;
of Zerah, the family of the Zarahites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites.
These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty two thousand, two hundred.
The sons of Gad according to their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites;
of Ozni the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites;
of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites.
These are the families of the sons of Gad according to those numbered of them, forty thousand, five hundred.
The sons of Judah: Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
And the sons of Judah by their families: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Pharez, the family of the Pharzites; of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites.
And the sons of Pharez: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites of Hamul the family of the Hamulites.
These are the families of Judah, according to those numbered of them, seventy six thousand, five hundred.
Of the sons of Issachar, according to their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Pua, the family of the Punites;
of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites.
These are the families of Issachar according to those numbered to them, sixty four thousand, three hundred.
Of the sons of Zebulun, according to their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.
These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those numbered to them, sixty thousand, five hundred.
And the sons of Joseph according to their families: Manasseh and Ephraim.
The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir fathered Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites.
These are the sons of Gilead: of Jeezer, the family of the Jeezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites.
And of Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and of Shechem, the family of the Shechemites;
and of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters; and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah.
These are the families of Manasseh, and those numbered of them, fifty two thousand, seven hundred.
These are the sons of Ephraim, according to their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Bachrites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites.
These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those numbered of them, thirty two thousand, five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph according to their families.
The sons of Benjamin according to their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites;
of Shupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the, family of the Huphamites.
And Bela's sons were Ard and Naaman. Of Ard , the family of the Ardites; of Naaman the family of the Naamites.
These are the sons of Benjamin according to their families, and their numbered ones, forty five thousand, six hundred.
These are the sons of Dan according to their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan according to their families.
All the families of the Shuhamites according to those numbered of them, sixty four thousand, four hundred.
Of the sons of Asher according to their families: of Jimna, the family of the Jimnites; of Jesui, the family of the Jesuites of Beriah, the family of the Berites.
Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.
And Asher's daughter's name was Serah.
These are the families of the sons of Asher, according to those numbered of them, fifty three thousand, four hundred.
The sons of Naphtali, according to their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites;
of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.
These are the families of Naphtali by their families, and their numbered ones were forty five thousand, four hundred.
These were the numbered ones of the sons of Israel, six hundred and one thousand, seven hundred and thirty.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
The land shall be divided to those for an inheritance, according to the number of names.
To the many you shall increase their inheritance; and to the few you shall diminish their inheritance; each according to the mouth of his numbered ones shall be given his inheritance.
But the land shall be divided by lot. They shall inherit according to the names of the tribes of their fathers.
By the mouth of the lot, possession of it shall be divided between the many and few.
And these are the numbered ones of the Levites by their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites.
These are the families of the Levites: the family of the Libnites; the family of the Hebronites; the family of the Mahlites; the family of the Mushites; the family of the Korathites. And Kohath fathered Amram;
And the name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt. And she bore Aaron and Moses to Amram, and their sister Miriam.
And Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar were born to Aaron.
And Nadab and Abihu died for bringing strange fire before Jehovah.
And those numbered of them, twenty three thousand; all males from a month old and upward. For they were not counted among the sons of Israel, because there was no possession given them among the sons of Israel.
These are those numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the plains of Moab, beside Jordan, near Jericho.
And among these there was not a man of those numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
For Jehovah had said to them, They shall surely die in the wilderness; and not a man of them should be left except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.