After these things Jesus manifested himself again to his disciples at the sea of Tiberias. And he revealed himself this way.
There were together, Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other men of his disciples.
Simon Peter says to them, I am going to harvest fish. They say to him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and straightaway entered into the boat. And in that night they caught nothing.
But having now become morning, Jesus stood on the shore. However the disciples had not seen that it was Jesus.
Therefore Jesus says to them, Children, have ye anything eatable? They answered him, No.
And he said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and ye will find. Therefore they cast, and they were no longer able to draw it for the magnitude of fishes.
That disciple therefore whom Jesus loved says to Peter, It is the Lord. So when Simon Peter heard that it is the Lord, he tied the coat around himself (for he was undressed), and threw himself into the sea.
And the other disciples came in the skiff (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits off), dragging the net of the fishes.
So when they came to the land, they saw a fire of coals set, and fish laying on it, and bread.
Jesus says to them, Bring from the fishes that ye now caught.
Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land, full of great fishes, a hundred and fifty-three. And being so many, the net was not broken.
Jesus says to them, Come, eat breakfast. And none of the disciples dared to query him, Who are thou? knowing that it is the Lord.
Jesus therefore comes, and takes the bread, and gives to them, and the fish likewise.
This is now a third time Jesus was manifested to his disciples after being raised from the dead.
So when they ate breakfast, Jesus says to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do thou love me more than these things? He says to him, Yea, Lord. Thou know that I love thee. He says to him, Feed my lambs.
He says to him again a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do thou love me? He says to him, Yea, Lord. Thou know that I love thee. He says to him, Feed my sheep.
He says to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do thou love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do thou love me? And he said to him, Lord, thou know all things. Thou know that I love thee. Jesus says to him, Feed my sheep.
Truly, truly, I say to thee, When thou were younger, thou girded thyself, and walked where thou would, but when thou become old, thou will stretch forth thy hands, and another will gird thee, and carry thee where thou do not want.
Now he said this, signifying by what kind of death he will glorify God. And after saying this, he says to him, Follow me.
But Peter, having turned around, sees the disciple whom Jesus loves, following, who also leaned near his chest at the supper, and said, Lord, who is the man betraying thee?
Having seen this man, Peter says to Jesus, Lord, and what of this man?
Jesus says to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is it to thee? Follow thou me.
This saying therefore went forth among the brothers, that that disciple does not die. And yet Jesus did not say to him, that he does not die, but, If I want him to remain until I come, what is it to thee?
This is the disciple who testifies about these things, and who wrote these things. And we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things, as many as Jesus did, which if they would be written every one, I suppose not even the world itself to make room for the books being written. Truly.