After these things I heard as it were a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, Hallelujah I The salvation, and the glory, and the power, belong to our God;
for true and righteous are his judgments; for he hath judged the great harlot, who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.
And a second time they said, Hallelujah! and her smoke goeth up for ever and ever.
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen, hallelujah!
And a voice came forth from the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, the small and the great.
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunders, saying, Hallelujah! for the Lord our God the Almighty reigneth.
Let us rejoice and exult, and we will give to him the glory; for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready;
and it was given to her that she should be clothed in fine linen, shining and pure. For the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints.
And he saith to me, Write, Blessed are they who are called to the marriage-supper of the Lamb. And he saith to me, These are the true words of God.
And I fell at his feet to worship him; and he saith to me, See thou do it not; I am a fellow-servant of thee, and of thy brethren who maintain the testimony to Jesus; worship God. For the testimony to Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he who sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war.
His eyes were a flame of fire, and on his head were many diadems; and he had names written, and a name written which no one knoweth but he himself;
and he was clothed with a garment dipped in blood; and his name is called, The Word of God.
And the armies which are in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and pure.
And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he may smite the nations; and he will rule them with a rod of iron; and he treadeth the wine-press of the fierceness of the wrath of God Almighty.
And he hath on his garment and on his thigh a name written: KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.
And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in mid-heaven, Come, gather yourselves together to the great supper of God;
that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, lieth small and great.
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him who sat on the horse, and against his army.
And the beast was seized and he who was with him, the false prophet who wrought the signs in his presence, with which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast, and who worshipped his image; the two were cast alive into the lake of fire burning with brimstone.
And the rest were slain with the sword of him who sat upon the horse, the sword which proceeded out of his mouth; and all the birds were glutted with their flesh.