And after this it, came to pass that David smote the Philistines and subdued them, and David took Methegammah out of the hand of the Philistines.
He also smote those of Moab and measured them with a line, causing them to lie down on the ground, and he measured them with two lines, [with one] to put to death and the [other] full line to keep alive. And [so] the Moabites became David's servants, bringing presents.
David smote also Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to extend his border to the river Euphrates.
And David took from him a thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand footmen, and David hamstrung all the chariot [horses] but reserved of them [for] one hundred chariots.
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians twenty-two thousand men.
Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David, bringing presents. And the LORD saved David wherever he went.
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.
Likewise from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David took a great quantity of brass.
When Toi, king of Hamath, heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer,
then Toi sent Joram, his son, unto king David, to greet him peacefully and to bless him because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him, for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And [Joram] brought vessels of silver and vessels of gold and vessels of brass in his hand,
which King David dedicated unto the LORD with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all Gentiles which he subdued
of the Sirians and of the Moabites and of the sons of Ammon and of the Philistines and of Amalekites and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
And David received fame when he returned from smiting of the Syrians in the valley of salt eighteen thousand [men].
And he put garrisons in Edom; he put garrisons throughout all Edom, and all those of Edom became David's servants. And the LORD saved David wherever he went.
And David reigned over all Israel, and David executed justice and righteousness unto all his people.
And Joab, the son of Zeruiah, [was] over the host, and Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, [was] the writer of chronicles;
and Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, [were] the priests, and Seraiah [was] the scribe,
and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, [was over] both the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were priests.: