Iesus then full of the holy goost returnyd fro Iordan and was caryed of ye sprete into wildernes
and was .xl. dayes tempted of the devyll. And in thoose dayes ate he no thinge. And when they were ended he afterward hongred.
And the devyll sayde vnto him: yf thou be the sonne of God comaunde this stone yt it be breed.
And Iesus answered hym sayinge: It is writte: man shall not live by breed only but by every worde of God.
And ye devyll toke him vp into an hye moutayne and shewed him all the kyngdoms of the worlde eve in ye twincklinge of an eye.
And ye devyll sayde vnto him: all this power will I geve ye every whit and the glory of the: for yt is delyvered to me and to whosoever I will I geve it.
Yf thou therfore wilt worshippe me they shalbe all thyne.
Iesus answered him and sayde: hence from me Sathan. For it is written: Thou shalt honour the Lorde thy God and him only serve.
And he caryed him to Ierusalem and set him on a pynacle of the temple and sayd vnto him: Yf thou be the sonne of God cast thy silfe doune from hens.
For it is written he shall geve his angels charge over the to kepe the
and with there hondis they shall stey the vp that thou dasshe not thy fote agaynst a stone.
Iesus answered and sayde to him it is sayd: thou shalt not tempte the Lorde thy God.
Assone as the devyll had ended all his temptacions he departed from him for a season.
And Iesus retourned by the power of ye sprete in to Galile and there went a fame of him thorowe oute all the regio roude aboute.
And he taught in their synagoges and was commended of all men.
And he came to Nazareth where he was noursed and as hys custome was went in to the synagoge on the Saboth dayes and stode vp for to rede.
And ther was delyvered vnto him ye boke of ye Prophete Esaias. And when he had opened the boke he founde the place where it was written.
The sprete of the lorde vpon me because he hath annoynted me: to preache ye gospell to ye poore he hath sent me: and to heale the broken harted: to preache delyverauce to the captive and sight to the blinde and frely to set at lyberte them that are brused
and to preache the acceptable yeare of the Lorde.
And he cloosed the booke and gave it agayne to the minister and sate doune. And the eyes of all that were in the synagoge were fastened on him.
And he began to saye vnto them. This daye is this scripture fulfilled in youre eares.
And all bare him witnes and wondred at the gracious wordes which proceded oute of his mouth and sayde: Is not this Iosephs sonne?
And he sayde vnto them: Ye maye very well saye vnto me this proverbe: Phisicion heale thy silfe. Whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum do the same here lyke wyse in thyne awne countre.
And he sayde verely I saye vnto you: No Prophet is accepted in his awne countre.
But I tell you of a truth many wyddowes were in Israell in the dayes of Helias when hevyn was shet thre yeres and syxe monethes when greate fammisshemet was throughoute all the londe
and vnto none of them was Helias sent save in to Sarephta besydes Sidon vnto a woma that was a widow.
And many lepers were in Israel in the tyme of Heliseus the Prophete: and yet none of them was healed savinge Naaman of Siria.
And as many as were in ye sinagoge when they herde that were filled with wrath:
and roose vp and thrust him oute of the cite and ledde him eve vnto the edge of the hill wher on their cite was bilte to cast him doune hedlynge.
But he went his waye eve thorow the myddes of them:
and came in to Capernaum a cyte of Galile and there taught the on the Saboth dayes.
And they were astonyed at his doctrine: for his preachige was wt power.
And in the synagoge ther was a ma which had a sprete of an vncleane devell and cryed with aloude voyce
sayinge: let me alone what hast thou to do with vs thou Iesus of Nazareth? Arte thou come to destroye vs? I knowe the what thou arte eve the holy of God.
And Iesus rebuked him sayinge: holde thy peace and come oute of him. And the devyll threwe him in the myddes of them and came oute of him and hurt him not.
And feare came on them all and they spake amonge them selves sayinge: what maner a thinge is this? For with auctorite and power he commaundeth the foule spretes and they come out?
And ye fame of him spreed abroode thorowoute all places of the countre round aboute.
And he roose vp and came oute of ye sinagoge and entred in to Simons housse. And Simos motherelawe was take with a greate fever and they made intercession to him for her.
And he stode over her and rebuked the fever: and it leeft her. And immediatly she arose and ministred vnto them.
When the sonne was doune all they that had sicke take with divers deseases brought them vnto him: and he layde his hondes on every one of them and healed them.
And devils also cam out of many of them crying and saying: thou arte Christ the sonne of God. And he rebuked them and suffered them not to speake: for they knewe that he was Christ.
Assone as it was daye he departed and went awaye into a desert place and ye people sought him and came to him and kept him that he shuld not departe from the.
And he sayde vnto the: I muste to other cities also preache the kyngdome of God: for therfore am I sent.
And he preached in the synagoges of Galile.