As streams of waters, the king's heart is in the hand of Jehovah; He turns it wherever He desires.
Every way of a man is upright in his own eyes, but Jehovah measures the hearts.
For Jehovah, to do righteousness and justice is to be chosen more than sacrifice.
High eyes, a proud heart, and the lamp of the wicked, is sin.
The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenty, but those of every hasty one only to poverty.
The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vapor driven by those who seek death.
The violence of the wicked drags them down, because they refuse to do justice.
The way of a guilty man is perverted; but the pure, his work is right.
It is better to dwell on a corner of a housetop, than with a contentious woman, and to share a house.
The soul of the wicked desires evil, his neighbor finds no favor in his eyes.
The simple is made wise when the scorner is punished, and when the wise is instructed, he receives knowledge.
The Righteous One wisely considers the house of the wicked: He overthrows the wicked for his evil.
Whoever stops his ears at the cry of the poor, he himself shall also call, and shall not be answered.
A gift in secret subdues anger; yea, a bribe in the bosom quiets great fury.
It is joy to the just to do justice, but ruin shall come to the workers of evil.
The man who wanders out of the way of prudence shall rest in the congregation of departed spirits.
A man who loves pleasure shall be poor, he who loves wine and oil shall not be rich.
The wicked shall be a ransom for the just, and the treacherous in the place of the upright.
It is better to live in a land of the wilderness than with a woman of strivings and vexations.
A desirable treasure and oil are in the dwelling of the wise, but a foolish man devours it.
He who pursues righteousness and mercy finds life, righteousness and honor.
A wise one ascends the city of the mighty and topples the strength in which it trusts.
Whoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from distresses.
Proud, haughty scorner is his name, he who deals in proud wrath.
The lust of the lazy man kills him, for his hands have refused to work.
He lusts with lust all the day long, but the righteous gives and does not withhold.
The sacrifice of the wicked is hateful, how much more when he brings it with an evil intent!
A false witness shall perish, but the man who attends will speak forever.
A wicked man hardens his face, but the upright establishes his way.
There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel before Jehovah.
The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but to Jehovah belongs deliverance.