After this, I saw four messengers, standing at the four corners of the earth, holding fast the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow upon the land, or upon the sea, or upon any tree.
And I saw another messenger, ascending from the rising of the sun, holding the seal of the Living God; and he cried out with a loud voice unto the four messengers unto whom it had been given to injure the land and the sea,
saying—Do not injure the land, or the sea, or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God upon their foreheads.
And I heard the number of the sealed,—a hundred and forty-four thousand,—sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel:—
Of the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand sealed, of the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand, of the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand,
Of the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand, of the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand, of the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand,
Of the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand, of the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand, of the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand,
Of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand, of the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand, of the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand, sealed.
After these things, I saw, and lo! a great multitude,—which, to number it! no one was able,—of every nation, and [of all] tribes, and peoples, and tongues; standing before the throne, and before the Lamb; arrayed in white robes, and palm-branches in their hands;—
and they cry out with a loud voice, saying—Salvation unto our God who sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb!
And, all the messengers, were standing round about the throne and the elders and the four living creatures; and they fell down before the throne upon their faces, and rendered homage unto God,
saying—Amen! The blessing, and the glory, and the wisdom, and the thanksgiving, and the honour, and the power, and the might,—be unto our God, unto the ages of ages. [Amen]!
And one of the elders began, saying unto me—These who are arrayed in white robes, who are they? and whence came they?
And I at once said to him—My lord! thou, knowest! And he said unto me—These, are they who come out of the great tribulation, and they washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb;
For this cause, are they before the throne of God, and are rendering divine service unto him, day and night, in his sanctuary; and he that sitteth upon the throne shall spread his tent over them;
They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither in any wise shall the sun fall upon them, nor any burning heat;
Because, the Lamb that is in the midst of the throne, shall shepherd them, and shall lead them unto life’s fountains of waters; and God shall wipe away every tear out of their eyes.