Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
This man came to him by night, and said to him, Rabbi, we know that thou have come a teacher from God, for no man can do these signs that thou do if God is not with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to thee, If any man is not begotten from above, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus says to him, How can a man be begotten, being old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's belly, and be born?
Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to thee, If any man is not begotten from water and Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
That which is begotten from the flesh is flesh, and that which is begotten from the Spirit is spirit.
Marvel not that I said to thee, ye must be begotten from above.
The wind blows where it will, and thou hear the sound of it, but know not from where it comes, and where it goes. So is every man who is begotten from the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to him, How can these things happen?
Jesus answered and said to him, Thou are the teacher of Israel, and do not understand these things?
Truly, truly, I say to thee, we speak that which we know, and testify of what we have seen, and ye do not accept our testimony.
If I told you earthly things, and ye do not believe, how will ye believe if I should tell you heavenly things?
And no man has ascended into heaven, except he who came down out of heaven: the Son of man who is in heaven.
And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up,
so that every man who believes in him would not perish, but may have eternal life.
For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, so that every man who believes in him would not perish, but have eternal life.
For God sent the Son into the world not that he might condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through him.
He who believes in him is not condemned. He who does not believe has been condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light, for their deeds were evil.
For every man who does evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, so that his works may not be exposed.
But he who does the truth comes to the light, so that his deeds may be made manifest that they are wrought in God.
After these things Jesus and his disciples came into the Judean country. And he remained there with them and immersed.
And John also was immersing in Aenon near Salim because there was much water there. And they came and were immersed.
For John was not yet cast into prison.
Therefore a debate developed from John's disciples with the Jews about purification.
And they came to John, and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with thee beyond the Jordan, about whom thou have testified, behold, this man immerses, and all men come to him.
John answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it is given to him from heaven.
Ye yourselves testify that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent ahead of that man.
He who has the bride is the bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices with joy because of the bridegroom's voice. This therefore my joy is fulfilled.
It is necessary for that man to increase, but me to decrease.
He who comes from above is above all things. He who is of the earth is of the earth, and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all things.
And what he has seen and heard, of this he testifies, and no man receives his testimony.
He who has received his testimony has set a seal that God is true.
For he whom God sent speaks the sayings of God, for God does not give the Spirit by measure.
The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into his hand.
He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who disobeys the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.