And receive him who is weak in the faith, but not to judgments of your thoughts.
For indeed one believes to eat all things; but being weak, another eats vegetables.
Do not let him who eats despise him who does not eat; and do not let him who does not eat judge him who eats, for God has received him.
Who are you that judges another's servant? To his own master he stands or falls. But he will stand, for God is able to make him stand.
One indeed esteems a day above another day; and another esteems every day alike. Let each one be fully assured in his own mind.
He who regards the day regards it to the Lord; and he not regarding the day, does not regard it to the Lord. He who eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks; and he who does not eat, does not eat to  the Lord, and gives God thanks.
For none of us lives to himself, and no one dies to himself.
For both if we live, we live to the Lord; and if we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore both if we live, and if we die, we are the Lord's.
For this Christ both died and rose and lived again, that He might be Lord both of the dead and living.
But why do you judge your brother? Or also why do you despise your brother? For all shall stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
For it is written, " As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to Me, and every tongue shall confess to God."
So then each one of us will give account concerning himself to God.
Then let us not judge one another any more, but rather judge this, not to put a stumbling-block or an offense toward his brother.
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing by itself is common; except to him who esteems anything to be common, it is common.
But if your brother is grieved with your food, you no longer walk according to love. Do not with your food destroy him for whom Christ died.
Then do not let your good be spoken evil of,
for the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
For he who serves Christ in these things is well-pleasing to God, and approved by men.
So then let us pursue the things of peace, and the things for building up one another.
Do not undo the work of God for food. Truly, all things indeed are clean, but it is bad to the man eating because of a stumbling-block.
It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything by which your brother stumbles, or is offended, or is made weak.
Do you have faith? Have it to yourself before God. Blessed is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves.
But, the one doubting, if he eats, he has been condemned, because it is not of faith; and all that is not of faith is sin.