And Jesus answered and spoke to them again by parables, and said,
The kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king who made a marriage for his son.
And he sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding; and they would not come.
Again he sent out other servants, saying, Tell those who are invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and fatlings are killed, and all things are ready. Come to the marriage.
But not caring, they went their ways, one to his field, another to his trading.
And the rest took his servants and treated them spitefully, and killed them.
But when the king heard, he was angry. And he sent out his armies and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.
Then he said to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they who were invited were not worthy.
Therefore go into the exits of the highways, and as many as you shall find, invite them to the marriage.
So the servants went out into the highways and gathered together as many as they found, both bad and good. And the wedding was filled with reclining guests.
And the king coming in to look over the guests, he saw a man there who did not have on a wedding garment.
And he said to him, Friend, how did you come in here without having a wedding garment? And he was speechless.
Then the king said to the servants, Bind him hand and foot and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
For many are called, but few chosen.
Then the Pharisees left and took counsel that they might entangle Him in words.
And they sent their disciples out to Him along with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that you are true, and that you teach the way of God in truth. Nor do you care for anyone, for you do not regard the person of men.
Therefore tell us; what do you think? Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not?
But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why do you tempt Me, hypocrites?
Show Me the tribute money. And they brought a denarius to Him.
And He said to them, Whose image and inscription is this?
They said to Him, Caesar's. Then He said to them, Therefore render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things which are God's.
When they heard these words, they marveled, and they left Him and went away.
On that day the Sadducees came to Him, who say that there is no resurrection. And they asked Him,
saying, Master, Moses said, If a man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife and raise up seed to his brother.
Now there were with us seven brothers. And the first, when he had married a wife, died. And, having no issue, he left his wife to his brother.
The second also did likewise, and the third, to the seventh.
And last of all the woman also died.
Therefore in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be, of the seven? For they all had her.
Jesus answered and said to them, You err, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of God.
For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in Heaven.
But regarding the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,
"I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?" God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
And when the crowd heard this, they were astonished at His doctrine.
But hearing that He had silenced the Sadducees, the Pharisees were gathered together.
Then one of them, a lawyer, asked, tempting Him and saying,
Master, which is the great commandment in the Law?
Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.
This is the first and great commandment.
And the second is like it, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets.
While the Pharisees were gathered, Jesus asked them,
saying, What do you think of Christ? Whose son is he? They say to Him, David's.
He said to them, How then does David by the Spirit call him Lord, saying,
"the LORD said to my Lord, Sit on My right until I make Your enemies Your footstool for Your feet?"
If David then calls Him Lord, how is He his son?
And no one was able to answer Him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day to question Him any more.