And Jericho was closed, and was shut in from the face of the sons of Israel; no one going out, and no one coming in.
And Jehovah said to Joshua, See I have given Jericho and its king, mighty warriors, into your hand.
And you shall go around the city, all the men of battle, going around the city once; so you shall do six days.
And seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of ram's horns before the ark. And on the seventh day you shall go around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets.
And it shall be, when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the ram's horn, all the people shall shout with a great shout. And the wall of the city shall fall down flat; and the people shall go up, each man in front of him.
And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of ram's horns before the ark of Jehovah.
And he said to the people, Pass on, go around the city, and he who is shall go on before the ark of Jehovah.
And it happened, when Joshua spoke to the people, the seven priests bearing seven trumpets of the ram's horns before Jehovah passed on and blew with the ram's horn. And the ark of the covenant of Jehovah went after them.
And he who was armed went before the priests blowing the ram's horns. And the rear guard after the ark, going on and blowing with the trumpets.
And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, You shall not shout, nor cause your voice to be heard, nor shall there go from your mouth a word until the day I say to you, Shout! Then you shall shout.
And the ark of Jehovah went around the city, going around one time. And they came into the camp, and remained in the camp.
And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests bore the ark of Jehovah.
And seven priests bearing seven trumpets of the ram's horns were walking before the ark of Jehovah, going on, and were blowing with the rams' horns. And he who was armed went before them. And the rear guard went behind the ark of Jehovah, going on and blowing with the rams' horns.
And they circled the city on the second day one time, and returned to the camp. So they did six days.
And it happened on the seventh day, they rose early, at the dawning of the day, and went around the city seven times in the same way. Only on that day they circled the city seven times.
And it happened at the seventh time the priests blew with the rams' horns. And Joshua said to the people, Shout! For Jehovah has given you the city.
And the city shall be devoted to Jehovah, it and all that are in it. Only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all who are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent.
And you shall certainly keep clear of the cursed things, that you not become accursed by taking from the cursed things, and shall make the camp of Israel become accursed, and trouble it.
And all the silver and gold, and vessels of bronze and iron, they are holy to Jehovah; they shall come into the treasury of Jehovah.
And the people shouted, and blew with the ram's horns, and it happened, when the people heard the sound of the ram's horn, the people shouted a great shout. And the wall fell under it; and the people went up into the city, each man in front of him; and they captured the city.
And they destroyed all that was in the city, from man even to woman, from young even to aged, and to ox, and sheep, and ass, by the mouth of the sword.
And Joshua said to the two men who had spied out the land, Go into the house of the woman, the harlot, and bring the woman out from there, and all whom she has, as you have sworn to her.
And the young men, the spies, went in and brought out Rahab, and her father, and her mother, and her brothers, and all whom she had; yea, they brought all her family, and set them outside the camp of Israel.
And they burned the city with fire, and all that was in it. Only they gave the silver and the gold, and the vessels of bronze, and of iron, to the treasury of the house of Jehovah.
And Joshua kept alive Rahab the harlot, and the house of her father, and all whom she had. And she lives in the midst of Israel to this day. For she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.
And at that time Joshua adjured, saying, Cursed be the man who rises up before the face of Jehovah and builds this city of Jericho. He shall lay its foundation in his first-born, and he shall set up its doors in his youngest son.
And Jehovah was with Joshua, and his fame was in all the land.