And the men of Kirjath-jearim came and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it to the house of Abinadab, in the hill. And they sanctified his son Eleazar to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it happened from the day the ark began to dwell in Kirjath-jearim, the days became many; yea, they were twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
And Samuel said to all the house of Israel, saying, If you are returning to Jehovah with all your heart, put aside the alien gods from among you, and the Ashtoreths. And prepare your heart to Jehovah, and serve Him only, and He will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the sons of Israel put away the Baals and the Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray to Jehovah for you.
And they were gathered to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured out before Jehovah. And they fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the sons of Israel in Mizpah.
And the Philistines heard that the sons of Israel had gathered to Mizpah. And the rulers of the Philistines went up against Israel, and the sons of Israel heard, and were afraid before the Philistines.
And the sons of Israel said to Samuel, Do not cease to cry to Jehovah our God for us, that He save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel took a milk lamb and offered a whole burnt offering to Jehovah. And Samuel cried to Jehovah for Israel. And Jehovah answered him.
And it happened as Samuel offered up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. And Jehovah thundered with a great noise on that day, on the Philistines, and troubled them. And they were stricken before Israel.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and pursued the Philistines, and struck them as far as below Beth-car.
And Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called its name Ebenezer, saying, Jehovah has helped us until now.
And the Philistines were subdued and did not yet again come into the border of Israel. And the hand of Jehovah was on the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath. And Israel delivered their border out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And He went from year to year, traveling a circuit to Bethel, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all these places.
And he returned to Ramah, for his house was there. And there he judged Israel; and he built an altar to Jehovah there.