For the divisions of the gatekeepers: Of the Korhites: Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
And the sons of Meshelemiah: Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.
And the sons of Obed-edom: Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fifth,
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth-- for God blessed him.
Also sons were born to his son Shemaiah, who ruled for the house of their father, for they were mighty men of valor.
The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brothers were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah.
All these were the sons of Obed-edom. They and their sons and their brothers were able men for strength for the service, and there were sixty-two of Obed-edom.
And Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, strong men, eighteen.
Also to Hosah, of the sons of Merari, were sons: Simri was the chief ( though not the first-born, yet his father made him the chief),
Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and brothers of Hosah were thirteen.
among these were the divisions of the gatekeepers, among the chief men, having charges like their brothers, to minister in the house of the LORD.
And they cast lots, the small as well as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for every gate.
And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah; then Zechariah his son, a wise counselor, they cast lots. And his lot came out northward.
To Obed-edom southward; and to his sons the storehouse;
to Shuppim and Hosah westward, with the gate of Shallecheth, by the highway going up, guard corresponding to guard.
Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and toward the storehouse, two by two.
At the Parbar, westward, four at the highway, two at the Parbar.
These are the divisions of the gatekeepers among the sons of Kore, and among the sons of Merari.
And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God and over the treasures of the dedicated things.
The sons of Laadan, sons of the Gershonites; chief fathers of Laadan the Gershonite: Jehieli;
the sons of Jehieli: Zetham and Joel his brother, who were over the treasures of the house of the LORD,
for the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites.
And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler of the treasures.
And his brothers by Eliezer: Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.
This Shelomith and his brothers were over all the treasures of the holy things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the commanders over thousands and hundreds, and the commanders of the army, had given.
They dedicated part of the spoils won in battles, to maintain the house of the LORD,
and all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah had dedicated. Whoever had dedicated anything, it was at the hand of Shelomith and of his brothers.
Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges.
Of the men of Hebron, Hashabiah and his brothers, men of valor, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them of Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD, and in the service of the king.
Jerijah was the chief among the men of Hebron. He was of the Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valor at Jazer of Gilead.
And his brothers, mighty men, were two thousand and seven hundred chief fathers whom king David made rulers over the men of Reuben, of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every matter having to do with God and the affairs of the king.