And after these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth.
And finding a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla (because Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome) Paul came to them.
And because he was of the same trade, he stayed and worked with them; for they were tentmakers by occupation.
And he reasoned in the synagogue on every sabbath, persuading both Jews and Greeks.
And when Silas and Timothy had come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ.
And they resisting and blaspheming, shaking his garment, he said to them, Your blood is on your own heads. I am pure from it. From now on I will go to the nations.
And he departed from there and entered into the house of one named Justus, one worshiping God, whose house was next to the synagogue.
And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house. And hearing this, many of the Corinthians believed and were baptized.
And the Lord spoke to Paul in the night by a vision, Do not be afraid, but speak, and be not silent.
For I am with you, and no one shall set on you to hurt you, for I have many people in this city.
And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the Word of God among them.
But Gallio being pro-consul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rushed against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat,
saying, This one persuades men to worship God contrary to the Law.
And Paul being about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If indeed then, it was anything wrong or wicked criminality, O Jews, according to reason I would endure you.
But if it is a question of a word and names, and of your law, you look to it. For I do not wish to be a judge of such things.
And he drove them from the judgment seat.
And all the Greeks seized Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio did not care for any of these things.
And Paul having remained many days more, taking leave of the brothers, he sailed from there into Syria. And Priscilla and Aquila were with him. And Paul had shorn his head in Cenchrea, for he had a vow.
And he came to Ephesus and left them there. But he himself entered into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews.
And they asking him to stay a longer time with them, he did not consent
but took leave of them, saying, I must by all means keep this feast that is coming in Jerusalem, but I will return again to you, God willing. And he sailed from Ephesus.
And when he had landed at Caesarea and had gone up to greet the church, he went down to Antioch.
And after he had spent some time there, he departed and went over the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
And a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, an eloquent man mighty in the Scriptures, came to Ephesus.
This man was instructed in the way of the Lord. And being fervent in the spirit, he spoke and taught the things of the Lord diligently, knowing only the baptism of John.
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. And Aquila and Priscilla heard him, and they took him and expounded to him the way of God more perfectly.
And intending to pass into Achaia, being encouraged, the brothers wrote to the disciples to welcome him; who, having arrived, very much helped those who had believed through grace.
For he mightily confuted the Jews publicly, proving by the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ.