Thou therefore son of man Take thee a sharp cutting instrument, a barber’s razor, shalt thou take thee, and shalt cause it to pass upon thy head and upon thy chin,—and shalt take the balances for weighing, and shalt divide the hair.
A third part in the fire, shalt thou burn in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled,—and thou shalt take a third part, thou shalt smite it with the cuting instrument round about it, and a third part, shalt thou scatter to the wind, and, a sword, will I, make bare after them;
and thou shalt take from thence, a few in number,—and shalt bind them in thy skirts;
and of them, again take, and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them in the fire,-therefrom, shall go forth a fire unto all the house of Israel.
Thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh, This, is Jerusalem, In the midst of the nations, I placed her,— and of the countries round about her;
But she hath changed my regulations into lawlessness, more than the nations, And my statutes more than the countries which are round bout her, For my regulations, have they rejected, And in my statutes, have they not walked.
Therefore, Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh. Because ye have become more rebellious than the nations who are round about you, In my statutes, have not walked. And my regulations, have not done, And according to the regulations of the nations which are round about you, have not done:
Therefore, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Lo! I am against thee, even I, Therefore will I, execute in thy midst, judgments, in the eyes of the nations;
Yea I will execute upon thee that which I have not executed, And like unto which I will not execute again,- Because of all thine abominations.
Therefore, fathers will eat sons in thy midst, And sons will eat fathers,— And I will execute upon thee judgments, And will scatter the whole remnant of thee, to every wind.
Therefore as I live, Declareth My Lord Yahweh,— Surely because my sanctuary, thou hast defiled, with all thy detestable things, and with all thine abominations Even I also, will cut off, and mine eye, shall not spare, Yea even I will not pity.
The third part of thee by pestilence, shall die, and by famine, be consumed in thy midst And the third part by the sword, shall fall round about thee,- And the third part to every wind, will I scatter, and a sword, will I make bare after them.
So shall mine anger have an end, And I will cause mine indignation, to find rest, upon them, and will console myself,- And they shall know that, I, Yahweh, have spoken in my jealousy, when mine indignation hath come to an end, upon them.
And I will deliver thee up to desolation and reproach, among the nations that are round about thee,—in the eyes of every passer-by.
So shall it become a reproach and an insult a warning and an astonishment, to the nations that are round about thee,—in that I have executed upon thee judgments in anger and in indignation and in rebukes of indignation, I, Yahweh have spoken:
In that I have sent the malignant arrows of famine among them which were for destruction, which I will send to destroy you,—and famine, will I increase upon you, and will break for you the staff of bread.
So will I send upon you famine and mischievous beast and they shall bereave thee,—and pestilence and blood, shall pass through thee,—and a sword, will I bring in upon thee, I Yahweh, have spoken.