The wise woman buildeth her house; But the foolish teareth it down with her hands.
He who walketh in uprightness feareth the LORD; But he who is perverse in his ways despiseth him.
In the mouth of the foolish pride is a scourge; But the lips of the wise preserve them.
Where there are no oxen, the crib is clean; But there is great increase by the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness doth not lie; But a false witness poureth forth lies.
The scoffer seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not; But knowledge is easy to the man of understanding.
Go from the presence of a foolish man; For thou hast not perceived in him the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of the prudent is in giving heed to his way; But the folly of fools is deceit.
Fools make a mock at sin; But with the upright is favor.
The heart knoweth its own bitterness. And a stranger cannot intermeddle with its joy.
The house of the wicked shall be destroyed; But the tent of the upright shall flourish.
There is a way which seemeth right to a man, But its end is the way to death.
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, And the end of joy is grief.
The perverse in heart shall be filled with his own ways; And from himself shall the good man be satisfied.
The simple man believeth every word; But the prudent looketh well to his steps.
The wise man feareth, and departeth from evil; But the fool is haughty and confident.
He who is hasty in his anger will commit folly; And the man of wicked devices will be hated.
The simple inherit folly; But the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
The evil bow before the good; Yea, the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poor is hated even by his own neighbor; But the rich hath many friends.
He who despiseth his neighbor sinneth; But happy is he who hath mercy on the poor.
Do not they who devise evil fail of their end? But they who devise good meet with kindness and truth.
In all labor there is profit; But the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury.
Riches are a crown to the wise; But the promotion of fools is folly.
A true witness saveth lives; But a deceitful witness poureth forth lies.
In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence; Yea, to his children he will be a refuge.
The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life; By it men escape from the snares of death.
In a numerous people is the glory of a king; But the want of people is the destruction of a prince.
He who is slow to anger is of great understanding. But he who is of a hasty spirit setteth folly on high.
A quiet heart is the life of the flesh; But the ferment of passion is rottenness to the bones.
He who oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker; But he who hath mercy on the poor honoreth him.
By his wickedness the wicked is thrust down; But the righteous hath hope even in death.
Wisdom resteth quietly in the heart of the wise; But in the breast of fools it will be made known.
Righteousness exalteth a people; But the reproach of nations is sin.
The king’s favor is toward a wise servant; But his wrath is against him that causeth shame.