And it happened when he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as he did his own soul.
And Saul took him that day and would not let him go home to his father's house any more.
And Jonathan and David cut a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And Jonathan stripped off the robe was on him and gave it to David, and his apparel, even to his sword and to his bow and to his girdle.
And David went out wherever Saul sent him, behaving himself wisely. And Saul set him over the men of war, and it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
And it happened as they came in, as David returned from striking the Philistine, the women came out of all cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul with tabrets, with joy, and with instruments of music.
And the women answered as they played, and said, Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And Saul was very angry, and this thing was evil in his eyes. And he said, They have given David ten thousands, and to me they have given only thousands. And what more can he have but the kingdom?
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
And it happened on the next day the evil spirit from God came on Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played with his hand, as at other times. And a spear was in Saul's hand.
And Saul threw the spear. For he said, I will strike David even to the wall. And David drew back out of his presence twice.
And Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him and had departed from Saul.
And Saul moved him away from himself, and made him his commander over a thousand. And he went out and came in before the people.
And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways. And the LORD was with him.
And when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and came in before them.
And Saul said to David, Behold I will give you my older daughter Merab for a wife. Only you be a brave son for me and fight the LORD's battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be on him, but let the hand of the Philistines be on him.
And David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
And it happened at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter should have been given to David, she was given to Adriel the Meholathite to be his wife.
And Saul's daughter Michal loved David. And they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said, I will give her to him, so that she may be a trap to him, and so that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said to David a second time, Today you shall be my son-in-law.
And Saul commanded his servants, Talk with David secretly and say, Behold, the king delights in you, and all his servants love you. And now be the king's son-in-law.
And Saul's servants spoke these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, since I am a poor man and of little worth?
And the servants of Saul told him saying, This is the way David spoke.
And Saul said, You shall say this to David, The king does not desire any dowry except a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And when his servants told David these words, it was right in the eyes of David to be the king's son-in-law. And the days were not fulfilled.
And David arose and went forth, he and his men. And they killed two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king so that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for a wife.
And Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him.
And Saul was still more afraid of David. And Saul became David's enemy continually.
And the rulers of the Philistines came out. And it happened as often as they came out, David acted more wisely than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was very precious.