And He said to the disciples, It is impossible that the offenses should not come, but woe to him by whom they come!
It is profitable for him if a millstone turned by an ass is put around his neck, and he be thrown into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones.
Take heed to yourselves. And if your brother sins against you, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.
And if seven times of the day he sins against you, and seven times of the day turns to you saying, I repent, you shall forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord, Give us more faith.
But the Lord said, If you had faith as a grain of mustard, you may say to this sycamine tree, Be rooted up and be planted in the sea! And it would obey you.
But which of you having a slave plowing or feeding will say at once to him coming out of the field, Come, recline?
But will he not say to him, Prepare something what I may eat, and having girded yourself, serve me until I eat and drink, and after these things you shall eat and drink?
Does he have thanks to that slave because he did the things commanded of him? I think not.
So also when you have done all things commanded you, you say, We are unprofitable slaves, for we have done what we ought to do.
And it happened in His going to Jerusalem even He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
And He entering into a certain village, ten leprous men met Him, who stood afar off.
And they lifted their voice, saying, Jesus, Master, pity us.
And seeing them , He said to them, Going, show yourselves to the priests. And it happened in their going they were cleansed.
And one of them, seeing that he was cured, returned glorifying God with a loud voice.
And he fell on his face at His feet, thanking Him. And he was a Samaritan.
And answering, Jesus said, Were not the ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
Were not any found returning to give glory to God except this foreigner?
And He said to him, Rising up, go! Your faith has cured you.
And being questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God comes, He answered them and said, The kingdom of God does not come with observation;
nor will they say, Lo, here! Or, Lo, there! For behold the kingdom of God is in your midst.
And He said to the disciples, Days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of man, and will not see.
And they will say to you, Lo, here! Or, Lo, there! Do not go away, nor follow.
For as the lightning which lights up, flashing from the one part under heaven and shines to the other part under heaven, so also will the Son of man be in His day.
But first He must suffer many things and be rejected from this generation.
And as it was in the days of Noah, so also it will be in the days of the Son of man.
They were eating, drinking, marrying, giving in marriage, until the day Noah went into the ark. And the flood came and destroyed all.
And likewise, as it was in the days of Lot, they were eating, drinking, buying, selling, planting, building;
but on the day Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from the heaven and destroyed all.
Even so it will be in the day the Son of man is revealed.
In that day, he who will be on the housetop, let him not come down to take his goods from the house. And likewise, he in the field, let him not return to the things behind.
Remember Lot's wife.
Whoever seeks to save his life, he will lose it. And whoever will lose it, he will preserve it.
I say to you, In that night two will be on one bed; the one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two will be grinding together; one will be taken and the other will be left.
Two will be in the field; the one will be taken and the other will be left.
And answering, they said to Him, Where, Lord? And He said to them, Where the body is , there the eagles will be gathered together.