And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Every man of the sons of Israel shall pitch by his own banner, with the banner of their father's house. They shall pitch far off, around the tabernacle of the congregation.
And those who pitch on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall be those of the banner of the camp of Judah, throughout their armies. And Nahshon the son of Amminadab shall be captain of the sons of Judah.
And his army, and those that were numbered of them, were seventy-four thousand, six hundred.
And those that pitch next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar. And Nethaneel the son of Zuar shall be captain of the sons of Issachar.
And his army, and those that were numbered of them were fifty-four thousand, and four hundred.
And the tribe of Zebulun; the ruler of the sons of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon.
And his army, and those numbered of them were fifty-seven thousand and four hundred.
All that were numbered of the camp of Judah were a hundred and eighty-six thousand and four hundred, by their armies. They shall set forth first.
On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben, according to their armies; the ruler of the sons of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.
And his army, and those numbered of it, were forty-six thousand, five hundred.
And those who pitch beside him shall be the tribe of Simeon. And the captain of the sons of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
And his army, and those numbered of them, were fifty-nine thousand, three hundred.
Then the tribe of Gad. And the ruler of the sons of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
And his army, and those numbered of them, were forty-five thousand, six hundred and fifty.
All that were numbered in the camp of Reuben were a hundred fifty-one thousand, four hundred and fifty, throughout their armies. And they shall go forward in the second rank.
And the tabernacle of the congregation shall go forward with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp. As they camp, so they shall go forward, each man in his place, by their banners.
On the west side shall be the banner of the camp of Ephraim, according to their armies. And the ruler of the sons of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.
And his army, and those numbered with them, were forty thousand, five hundred.
And beside him shall be the tribe of Manasseh. And the ruler of the sons of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
And his army, and those numbered of them, were thirty-two thousand, two hundred.
And the tribe of Benjamin; the ruler of the sons of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.
And his army, and those numbered of them were thirty-five thousand, four hundred.
All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a hundred eight thousand, one hundred, by their armies. And they shall go forward in the third rank.
The banner of the camp of Dan shall be on the north side of their armies. And the ruler of the sons of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
And his army, and those numbered of them, were sixty-two thousand, seven hundred.
And those that camp beside him shall be the tribe of Asher. And the ruler of the sons of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ocran.
And his army, and those numbered of them, were forty-one thousand, five hundred.
Then the tribe of Naphtali. And the ruler of the sons of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.
And his army, and those numbered of them, were fifty-three thousand, four hundred.
All those who were numbered in the camp of Dan were a hundred fifty-seven thousand, six hundred. They shall go last with their banners.
These are those numbered of the sons of Israel, by their fathers' house. All those numbered of the camps throughout their armies were six hundred three thousand, five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites were not numbered among the sons of Israel, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And the sons of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses. So they pitched by their banners, and so they went forward, everyone according to their families, according to the house of their fathers.