O foolish Galatians, who bewitched you not to obey the truth, to whom before your eyes Jesus Christ was written among you crucified?
This only I would learn from you: Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law, or by hearing of faith?
Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, do you now perfect yourself in the flesh?
Did you suffer so many things in vain, if indeed it is even in vain?
Then He supplying the Spirit to you and working powerful works in you, is it by works of the law, or by hearing of faith?
Even as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness.
Therefore know that those of faith, these are the sons of Abraham.
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the nations through faith, preached the gospel before to Abraham, saying, "In you shall all nations be blessed."
So then those of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.
For as many as are out of works of the Law, these are under a curse; for it is written, "Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the Book of the Law, to do them."
But that no one is justified by the Law in the sight of God is clear, for, "The just shall live by faith."
But the Law is not of faith; but, "The man who does these things shall live in them."
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the Law, being made a curse for us (for it is written, "Cursed is everyone having been hanged on a tree");
so that the blessing of Abraham might be to the nations in Jesus Christ, and that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Brothers, I speak according to man, a covenant having been ratified, even among mankind, no one sets aside or adds to it.
And to Abraham and to his Seed the promises were spoken. It does not say, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, "And to your Seed," which is Christ.
And I say this, A covenant having been ratified to Christ by God in Christ, the Law (coming into being four hundred and thirty years after) does not annul the promise, so as to abolish it.
For if the inheritance is of Law, it is no more of promise; but God gave it to Abraham by way of promise.
Why then the Law? It was added because of transgressions, until the Seed should come to those to whom it had been promised, being ordained through angels in the Mediator's hand.
But the Mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one.
Is the Law then against the promises of God? Let it not be said! For if a law had been given which could have given life, indeed righteousness would have been out of Law.
But the Scripture shut up all under sin, so that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
But before faith came, we were kept under Law, having been shut up to the faith about to be revealed.
So that the Law has become a trainer of us until Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
But faith coming, we are no longer under a trainer.
For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For as many as were baptized into Christ, you put on Christ.
There cannot be Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is no male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise.