Behold, I will send my messenger, And he shall prepare the way before me; And the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple; And the messenger of the covenant, whom ye desire, Behold, he shall come, saith Jehovah of hosts.
But who shall abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appeareth? For he shall be like the fire of the refiner, And like the soap of the fuller.
And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, And he shall purify the sons of Levi, And shall refine them as gold and silver, That, being holy to Jehovah, they may bring an offering in righteousness.
Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasing to Jehovah, As in the days of old, And as in former years.
And I will come near to you to judgment; And I will be a swift witness Against sorcerers, and against adulterers, and against false swearers, And against those who defraud the hireling of his hire, And oppress the widow and the fatherless, And turn aside the stranger from his right, And fear not me, saith Jehovah of hosts.
For I am Jehovah; I change not; Therefore, ye sons of Jacob, are ye not consumed.
From the days of your fathers have ye turned aside from my statutes, And have not kept them; Return to me, and I will return to you, Saith Jehovah of hosts. But ye say, "Wherein shall we return?"
Shall a man rob God, That ye have robbed me? But ye say, "Wherein have we robbed thee?" In tithes and offerings.
Ye are cursed with a curse, For ye have robbed me, even this whole nation.
Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, That there be food in my house; And try me now in this, Saith Jehovah of hosts, Whether I will not open to you the windows of heaven, And pour out upon you a blessing, until there is none left.
And I will rebuke for you the devourer, And he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground, Nor shall your vine be barren in the field, Saith Jehovah of hosts.
And all nations shall call you blessed; For ye shall be a delightful land, Saith Jehovah of hosts.
Your words have been bold against me, saith Jehovah; Yet ye say, "What have we spoken against thee?"
Ye have said, "It is a vain thing to serve God"; And, "What profit is it that we have kept his ordinances, And that we have walked mournfully before Jehovah of hosts?
Therefore we call the proud happy; Yea, they that do wickedness are built up; Yea, they tempt God, and are delivered."
Then they that feared Jehovah spake to one another, And Jehovah gave ear and heard; And a book of remembrance was written before him, For them that feared Jehovah, And that thought upon his name.
And they shall be to me, saith Jehovah of hosts, In the day which I appoint, as my own possession; And I will spare them, As a father spareth his own son that serveth him.
Then shall ye return and see What is the difference between the righteous and the wicked, Between him who serveth God And him who serveth him not.