THEN six days after, Jesus taketh Peter, and James, and John his brother, and bringeth them into an exceeding high mountain apart.
And he was transformed before them; and his face shone as the sun, and his garments were white as the light.
And behold, there appeared to them, Moses and Elias talking with him.
Then Peter addressing him, said to Jesus, Lord, It is well that we are here; if it please thee, we will make here three tents; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
And while he was yet speaking, behold, a luminous cloud overshadowed them; and lo! a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom is my delight; hear him!
And the disciples hearing it, fell on their face, and were exceedingly affrighted.
And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, be not affrighted.
Then lifting up their eyes, they saw no person, but Jesus only.
And when they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell no man the vision, until the Son of man is risen from the dead.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then do the scribes affirm, that Elias must come first?
Then Jesus answering said unto them, Elias indeed cometh first, and will reform all things.
But I say unto you, That Elias is already come, and they knew him not, but have done by him whatsoever they chose: even so also must the Son of man suffer by them.
Then understood the disciples that he spake to them of John the Baptist.
And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a man, kneeling down to him, and saying,
Lord, have compassion on my son, for he is a lunatic, and suffers grievously; for oftentimes he falleth into the fire, and often into the water.
And I brought him to thy disciples, and they have not been able to cure him.
Then Jesus answering, said, O generation, faithless, and perverse! how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with you? bring him hither to me.
And Jesus rebuked him, and the devil came out of him; and the child was cured from that hour.
Then the disciples of Jesus coming privately, said, Why could not we cast it out?
Then said Jesus unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard, ye shall say to this mountain, Remove from hence, thither, and it will remove; and nothing will be impossible for you.
But this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.
And as they were returning into Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of men:
and they shall kill him, and the third day he shall rise again. And they were grieved exceedingly.
And when they came to Capernaum, they who receive the tax of two drachmas came to Peter, and said, Doth not your master pay tribute?
He saith, Yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus prevented him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? of whom do the kings of the earth receive customs and tax? from their own children, or from aliens?
Peter saith to him, From aliens. Jesus saith unto him, In that case then the children are free.
But that we give them no offence, go unto the sea, and cast in a hook, and take the first fish which cometh up; and on opening his mouth, thou wilt find a stater, that take and give them for me and thee.