Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bore him no sons. And she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
And Sarai said to Abram, Behold now, Jehovah has restrained me from bearing. Go in, I pray thee, to my handmaid. It may be that I will obtain sons by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.
And Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her handmaid, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to Abram her husband to be his wife.
And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
And Sarai said to Abram, My wrong be upon thee. I gave my handmaid into they bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. Jehovah judge between me and thee.
But Abram said to Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand, do to her that which is good in thine eyes. And Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her face.
And the agent of Jehovah found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
And he said, Hagar, Sarai's handmaid, from where have thou come? And where are thou going? And she said, I am fleeing from the face of my mistress Sarai.
And the agent of Jehovah said to her, Return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hands.
And the agent of Jehovah said to her, I will greatly multiply thy seed, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
And the agent of Jehovah said to her, Behold, thou are with child, and shall bear a son, and thou shall call his name Ishmael, because Jehovah has heard thy affliction.
And he will be a wild donkey among men, his hand against every man, and every man's hand against him, and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brothers.
And she called the name of Jehovah who spoke to her, Thou are a God who sees, for she said, Have I even here looked behind him who sees me?
Therefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi. Behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
And Hagar bore Abram a son. And Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
And Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.