And the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me into the east gate of the house of Yahweh which looketh eastward, and lo! in the opening of the gate, twenty-five men,—and I saw in their midst Jaazaniah son of Azzur and Pelatiah son of Benaiah princes of the people.
Then said he unto me, Son of man, These, are the men who are devising iniquity, and who are counselling wicked counsel in this city;
who are saying, Not near! let us build houses,— It, is the caldron, and, we, are the flesh!
Therefore, prophesy against them, —prophesy. Son of man.
Then fell upon me the Spirit of Yahweh, and he said unto me Say—Thus, saith Yahweh, Thus have ye said O house of Israel, Yea, the things that come up on your spirit, I, know every one.
Ye have multiplied your slain in this city,- And have filled her streets with slain.
Therefore Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Your slain. whom ye have laid in her midst, They are the flesh, and She is the caldron,—when ye are taken out of her midst.
A sword, have ye feared,— And a sword, will I bring in upon you, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
So will I take you forth out of her midst, and will deliver you into the hand of foreigners, —and will execute upon you judgments.
By the sword, shall ye fall, Upon the boundary of Israel, will I judge you, —So shall ye know that, I, am Yahweh.
This city shall not serve you for a caldron, Neither shall, ye, serve in the midst thereof for flesh,—Near the boundary of Israel, will I judge you,
So shall ye know that, I, am Yahweh. In whose statutes, ye have not walked And whose appointments, ye have not executed,— But according to the appointments of the nations that are round about you, have ye done.
And it came to pass as I prophesied, that Pelatiah son of Benaiah died,—so then I fell down upon my face and made outcry with a loud voice and said— Alas! My Lord Yahweh! A full end, art thou making of the remnant of Israel?
Then came the word of Yahweh unto me saying:
Son of man Thine own brethren, thine own brethren the men of thy kindred, even all the house of Israel all of it are they to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far away from Yahweh, To us, it is that the land, hath been given, for a possession!
Therefore, say, Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, Although I have removed them far away among the nations, And although I have dispersed them throughout the lands Yet have I become to them a sanctuary for a little while, in the lands which they have entered
Therefore say, Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, Therefore will I assemble you from among the peoples, And gather you out of the lands wherein ye have been dispersed,- And will give you the soil of Israel.
So shall they come in thither,— and take away all her detestable things, and all her abominations, out of her;
And I will give them another heart, And a new spirit, will I put within you,—And will take away the heart of stone out of their flesh, and give them a heart of flesh:
To the end that in my statutes, they may walk, And mine appointments, they may keep, and do them,— So shall they become my people, And I will become their God.
But as for them who having a heart for their detestable things and for their abominations after their own heart, do walk, Their way upon their own heads, will I render, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
Then did the cherubim lift up their wings, the wheels also going in unison with them,— the glory of the God of Israel, being over them above.
Thus went up the glory of Yahweh, out from the midst of the city,—and stood on the mountain, which is on the east of the city.
And, the spirit lifted me up, and brought me to Chaldea unto them of the captivity, in the vision by the Spirit of God,—thus went up from me, the vision which I had seen.
So I spake unto them of the captivity,—all the words of Yahweh which he had shewed me.