Behold My Servant; I will uphold Him; My Elect in whom My soul delights! I have put My Spirit on Him; He shall bring forth justice to the nations.
He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause His voice to be heard in the street.
A bruised reed He shall not break, and a smoking wick He shall not quench; He shall bring forth justice to truth.
He shall not fail nor be crushed until He has set justice in the earth; and the coasts shall wait for His law.
So says Jehovah God, creating the heavens and stretching them out; spreading out the earth and its offspring, giving breath to the people on it, and spirit to those walking in it.
I, Jehovah, have called You in righteousness, and will hold Your hand, and will keep You, and give You for a covenant of the people, for a Light of the nations;
to open blind eyes, to deliver the prisoner from the prison; those who sit in darkness from the prison.
I am Jehovah; that is My name; and I will not give My glory to another, nor My praise to engraved images.
Behold, the former things have come to pass, and I declare new things before they happen, I cause you to hear.
Sing a new song to Jehovah; His praise from the end of the earth, you who go to sea, and all that is in it; the coasts and their people.
Let the wilderness and its cities lift up, the villages where Kedar lives. Let the dwellers of the rock sing; let them shout from the top of the mountains.
They give glory to Jehovah and declare His praise in the coastlands.
Jehovah shall go out as a warrior; and He shall stir up His zeal like a man of war; He shall shout, yea, roar; He shall act mightily on His enemies.
I have forever kept silence; I have been quiet and refrained Myself; I will groan like a woman in travail; I will pant and gasp at once.
I will make mountains and hills become a waste, and dry up all their plants. And I will make the rivers coastlands, and I will dry up pools.
And I will lead the blind by a way they knew not; I will lead them in paths they never knew; I will make darkness into light before them, and crooked places a level place. I do these things to them and do not forsake them;
they are turned back; they are ashamed with shame, those trusting in the carved image, who say to cast images, You are our gods.
O deaf ones, hear! And O blind ones, look to see!
Who is blind but My servant? Or deaf, as My messenger whom I send? Who is blind as he who is at peace, and blind as Jehovah's servant?
You see many things, but do not observe; your ears are open, but not any hears.
Jehovah is delighted for His righteousness' sake; He will magnify the Law and make it honorable.
But it is a people robbed and spoiled; they shall all be snared in holes; they were hidden in prison houses. They were for spoil, and no one delivers; a prey, and no one says, Return!
Who among you will hear this, will listen and hear for the time to come?
Who gave Jacob to the plunderer, and Israel to the robbers? Did not Jehovah, He against whom we have sinned? For they willed not to walk in His ways, and they did not obey His law.
And He poured on him the fury of His anger, and the strength of battle; and it has set him on fire all around, yet he did not know; and it burned him, yet he did not lay it on his heart.