As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honor is not right for a fool.
As the wandering bird, as the swallow in its flying, so the causeless curse shall never come.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the back of fools.
Answer not a fool according to his foolishness, lest you become like him, even you.
Answer a fool according to his foolishness, that he not be wise in his own eyes.
He that sends a message by a fool's hand cuts off his own feet and drinks violence.
As the legs of the lame are weak, so a proverb in the mouth of fools.
As he binding a stone on a sling, so he giving honor to a fool.
As a thorn goes up into the drunkard's hand, so a proverb in the mouth of fools.
Great is the Former of all things, but he who hires a fool is like one who hires those passing by.
As a dog that returns to his own vomit, so a fool repeats his foolishness.
Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
The lazy one says, A lion is in the way, a lion is between the streets!
As the door turns on its hinge, so the lazy one on his bed.
The lazy one buries his hand in the dish, he is weary to bring it back to his mouth.
The lazy one is wiser in his own eyes than seven that return a wise answer.
The passerby enraging himself over strife that is not his own is like one who grabs a dog's ears,
like a madman throwing sparks, arrows and death,
so is a man who deceives his neighbor and says, Am I not joking?
The fire goes out where there is no wood, so the strife ceases where there is no whisperer.
As coal to burning embers, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man to kindle strife.
The words of a whisperer are as delicacies, and they go down into the chambers of the heart.
As with silver dross spread over an earthen vessel, so are burning lips and a wicked heart.
He who hates dissembles with his lips, for he lays up deceit in his inner being,
when his voice is gracious, do not believe him, for he has seven hateful things in his heart.
Though his hatred is covered by guile, his evil shall be revealed in the assembly.
He who digs a pit shall fall into it, and he who rolls a stone shall have it turn back on him.
A lying tongue hates the ones it crushes, and a flattering mouth works stumbling.