Amaziah was a son of twenty five years when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty nine years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
And he did the right in the eyes of Jehovah; only, not with a perfect heart.
And it happened, when the kingdom had been made strong to him, he killed his servants, those who had struck the king, his father.
But he did not kill their sons, but did as is written in the law, in the Book of Moses, whom Jehovah commanded, saying, The fathers shall not die for the sons, and the sons shall not die for the fathers; but they each shall die for his own sin.
And Amaziah gathered Judah, and made them stand, according to the house of the fathers, for commanders of the thousands, and for commanders of the hundreds, for all Judah and Benjamin. And he numbered them from a son of twenty years and above, and found them to be three hundred thousand choice ones, going forth to battle, holding spear and shield.
And he hired a hundred thousand mighty ones out of Israel, with a hundred talents of silver.
But a man of God came to him, saying, O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you; for Jehovah is not with Israel, with all the sons of Ephraim;
but if you will go, do it ; be strong for battle; God shall make you fall before the enemy, for God has power to help, and to cause to stumble.
And Amaziah said to the man of God, And what shall I do for the hundred talents that I have given to the army of Israel? And the man of God said, Jehovah has more than this to give to you.
And Amaziah separated them, the army that had come into him from Ephraim to go to their own place; and their anger burned mightily against Judah, and they returned to their place in the heat of anger.
And Amaziah made himself strong and led his people, and went to the Valley of Salt, and killed ten thousand of the sons of Seir.
And the sons of Judah captured ten thousand alive, and they brought them to the top of the rock and threw them from the top of the rock; and all of them were broken.
And the sons of the army that Amaziah had sent back from going with him to battle, these raided against the cities of Judah, from Samaria even to Beth-horon, and killed three thousand of them, and seized much prey.
And it happened, after Amaziah came in from smiting the Edomites, that he brought in the gods of the sons of Seir and made them stand as gods for himself; and bowed himself before them, and burned incense to them.
And the anger of Jehovah burned against Amaziah, and he sent a prophet to him; and he said to him, Why have you sought the gods of the people that have not delivered their people out of your hand?
And it happened, as he spoke with him, that he said to him, Have we appointed you a counselor to the king? Stop! Why should they strike you? And the prophet stopped, and said, I know that God has counseled to destroy you because you have done this, and have not listened to my counsel.
And Amaziah the king of Judah took counsel and sent to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face.
And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah the king of Judah, saying, The thorn that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son for a wife; and a beast of the field that  was in Lebanon passed by and trampled down the thorn.
You have said, behold, I have stricken Edom, and your heart has lifted you up to boast; now, stay in your house; why should you stir yourself up to evil, that you should fall, you and Judah with you?
And Amaziah would not listen, for it was from God, in order to give them into their hand, because they had sought to the gods of Edom.
And Jehoash the king of Israel went up, and they looked one another in the face, he and Amaziah the king of Judah, at Beth-shemesh that was Judah's.
And Judah was stricken before Israel; and they fled, each to his tent.
And Amaziah the king of Judah, the son of Joash, was caught by Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz, the king of Israel in Beth-shemesh; and he carried him to Jerusalem, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits.
And he took all the gold, and the silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obed-edom, and the treasures of the king's house, and the hostages, and returned to Samaria.
And Amaziah the son of Joash, the king of Judah, lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, the king of Israel.
And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, the first and the last, behold, are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel?
And after the time that Amaziah had turned aside from following Jehovah, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to Lachish, but they sent after him to Lachish and killed him there.
And they lifted him up on the horses, and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah.