The burden of Egypt: Behold! Jehovah rides on a light cloud and comes into Egypt. And the idols of Egypt shall tremble from before Him; and the heart of Egypt shall melt in its midst.
And I will stir up Egyptians against Egyptians; and they each man shall fight against his brother; and each against his neighbor; city against city, kingdom against kingdom.
And the spirit of the Egyptians shall be empty in its midst; and I will swallow its counsel. And they shall seek to idols, and to the enchanters, and to the mediums, and to the knowing ones.
And I will shut up the Egyptians into the hand of cruel lords; and a fierce king shall rule them, declares the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts.
And the waters shall dry up from the sea, and the river shall fail and dry up.
And rivers shall be fouled; and the Nile of Egypt will languish and dry up; the reed and the rush shall decay.
Bare places shall be at the Nile, by the mouth of the Nile, and everything sown by the Nile shall dry up, driven away, and be no more.
The fishermen shall mourn; and all who cast a hook into the Nile shall wall; and those who spread nets on the surface of the waters shall droop.
And the workers in fine flax, and the weavers of white cloth are ashamed.
And her supports shall be crushed; and all who make wages shall be sad of soul.
Surely the rulers of Zoan are fools; the advice of Pharaoh's wise counselors has become stupid. How can you say to Pharaoh, I am the son of wise ones, the son of kings of old?
Where are your wise ones now? Yea, let them tell you now, that they may know what Jehovah of Hosts has planned against Egypt.
The rulers of Zoan are fools; the rulers of Noph are deceived; they also have led Egypt astray, the cornerstone of her tribes.
Jehovah has mixed a perverse spirit in her midst; and they led astray Egypt in all his work; as a drunkard strays in his vomit.
And Egypt shall have no work that the head or the tail, the branch or rush, may do.
In that day Egypt shall be like women; and it will tremble and dread from before the shaking of the hand of Jehovah of Hosts, which He shakes over it.
And the land of Judah shall be a terror to Egypt; everyone who mentions it shall dread to it, from before the purpose of Jehovah of Hosts, which He purposes against it.
In that day five cities in the land of Egypt shall speak the language of Canaan, and swear to Jehovah of Hosts. One shall be called, City of Ruin.
Then an altar to Jehovah shall be in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to Jehovah at its border.
And it shall be for a sign and for a witness to Jehovah of Hosts in the land of Egypt. For they shall cry to Jehovah because of the oppressors; and He shall send them a deliverer, even a great one, and will deliver them.
And Jehovah shall be known to Egypt. Egypt shall know Jehovah in that day. And they shall offer sacrifice and offering, and vow a vow to Jehovah, and repay it .
And Jehovah shall strike Egypt. He shall strike and heal. Then they shall return to Jehovah, and He shall hear them, and shall heal them.
In that day there shall be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria. And Assyria shall come into Egypt; and Egypt into Assyria; and Egypt shall serve with Assyria.
In that day Israel shall be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth,
whom Jehovah of Hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be My people Egypt, and Assyria, the work of My hands, and Israel My inheritance.