The burden of the word of Jehovah for Israel, says Jehovah, who stretches forth the heavens, and lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man in his midst.
Behold! I will make Jerusalem a cup of trembling to all the peoples all around, and it shall also be against Judah in the siege against Jerusalem.
And in that day I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the peoples; all who lift it shall be slashed. And all the nations of the earth will be gathered against it.
In that day I will strike every horse with panic and his rider with madness, says Jehovah. And I will open My eyes on the house of Judah, and I will strike every horse of the peoples with blindness.
And the leaders of Judah shall say in their heart, The inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my strength in Jehovah of hosts, their God.
In that day I will make the leaders of Judah like a hearth of fire among the wood, and like a torch of fire among cut grain. And they shall devour all the peoples all around, on the right hand and on the left hand. And Jerusalem shall be inhabited again in her place, in Jerusalem.
Jehovah also shall save the tents of Judah first, so that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not be magnified above Judah.
In that day Jehovah shall protect around the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And it will be, he who is feeble among them in that day shall be like David, and the house of David shall be like God, like the Angel of Jehovah before them.
And it shall be in that day, I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.
And I will pour on the house of David, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the Spirit of grace and of prayers. And they shall look on Me whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for Him, as one mourns for an only son , and they shall be bitter over Him, like the bitterness over the first-born.
In that day the mourning in Jerusalem shall be great, like the mourning of Hadad-rimmon in the valley of Megiddo.
And the land shall mourn, each family apart: the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart;
the family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives apart; the family of Shimei apart, and their wives apart;
all the families who remain, each family apart, and their wives apart.