The hand of Jehovah was on me. And He brought me by the Spirit of Jehovah and made me rest in the midst of a valley, and it was full of bones.
And He made me pass among them all around. And, behold, very many were on the face of the valley. And, behold! They were very dry.
And He said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I said, O Lord Jehovah, You know.
And He said to me, Prophesy to these bones and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of Jehovah:
So says the Lord Jehovah to these bones: Behold, I cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live,;
and I will put on you sinews and will bring flesh on you and spread skin over you and put breath in you, and you shall live. And you shall know that I am Jehovah.
So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a noise. And, behold, a shaking! And the bones drew near, a bone to its bone.
And I watched. And, behold! The sinews and the flesh came up on them, and the skin spread over them from above. But there was no breath in them.
Then He said to me, Prophesy to the Spirit. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the Spirit, So says the Lord Jehovah: Come from the four winds, O Spirit, and breathe on these slain ones, that they may live.
So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the Spirit came into them. And they lived and stood on their feet, a very great army.
Then He said to me, Son of man, these bones are all the house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope is perished; we are cut off to ourselves.
So prophesy and say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, O My people, and I will bring you to the land of Israel.
And you shall know that I am Jehovah when I have opened your graves and have brought you up out of your graves, O My people.
And I shall put My Spirit in you, and you shall live; and I will put you on your own land. And you shall know that I, Jehovah, have spoken and have done it, says Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah was to me,
saying, And you, son of man, take one stick to yourself and write on it, For Judah, and for his companions, the sons of Israel. And take another stick and write on it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim and all the house of Israel, his companions.
And draw them one to one for yourself, into one stick. And they shall become for oneness in your hand.
And when the sons of your people shall speak to you, saying, Will you not declare to us what these mean to you?
Say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel, his companions. And I will put them with him, with the stick of Judah, and I will make them one stick, and they shall be one in My hand.
And the sticks shall be in your hand, the ones on which you write before their eyes.
And say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the sons of Israel from among the nations, there where they have gone, and will gather them from all around, and will bring them into their own land.
And I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel, and one King shall be for a king to all of them. And they shall not be two nations still. And they will not be split into two kingdoms any more.
And they will not still be defiled with their idols, even with their filthy idols, nor with all of their transgressions. But I will save them out of all their dwelling places where they have sinned in them, and I will cleanse them. So they shall be for a people to Me and I will be for God to them.
And My Servant, David, shall be King over them. And there shall be one Shepherd to all of them. And they shall walk in My judgments and keep My statutes, and do them.
And they shall dwell on the land that I have given to my servant, to Jacob, there where your fathers dwelt in it. And they shall dwell on it, they and their sons, and the sons of their sons, forever. And My Servant David  shall be a ruler to them forever.
And I will cut a covenant of peace with them, an everlasting covenant it shall be with them, And I will place them and multiply them, and I will put My sanctuary in their midst forever.
And My tabernacle shall be with them, and I will be their God, and they shall be My people.
And when My sanctuary shall be in their midst forever, the nations shall know that I, Jehovah, sanctify Israel.