Children, obey your parents in the Lord; for this is right.
"Honor thy father and mother;" which is the first commandment with a promise;
"that it may be well with thee, and thou mayst live long on the earth."
And, ye fathers, stir not up the anger of your children, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Bond-servants, obey your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as serving Christ;
not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but as bond-servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart;
doing service with good will, as to the Lord, and not to men;
knowing that whatever good each one shall have done, that shall he receive from the Lord, whether he be bondman or free.
And, ye masters, do the same things to them, forbearing threatening; knowing that both they and you have a Master in heaven, and that there is no respect of persons with him.
Finally, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.
Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the Devil;
for our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual hosts of evil in the heavenly regions.
Wherefore take up the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breast-plate of righteousness,
and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
taking up, in addition to all, the shield of faith, by which ye will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the Evil One;
and receive the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God;
praying with all prayer and entreaty at all times in the Spirit; and watching to this end with all perseverance and entreaty for all the saints,
and for me, that utterance may be given me in the opening of my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel,
in behalf of which I am an ambassador in chains; that I may proclaim it boldly, as I ought to speak.
But that ye also may know about me, how I am faring, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful servant in the Lord, will inform you of everything;
whom I have sent to you for this very purpose, that ye may know about us, and that he may comfort your hearts.
Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an incorruptible love.