“God of my fathers and Lord of mercy, who has made all things with your word,
and by your wisdom has established man to have dominion over the creatures which have been made by you,
so that he would order the world in equity and justice, and execute judgment with an upright heart,
give me wisdom, the handmaiden at your throne, and be unwilling to reject me from among your children,
because I am your servant, and the son of your handmaid, a weak man, and short-lived, with limited understanding of judgment and laws.
And if someone were perfect among the sons of men, yet if your wisdom was taken away from him, he would be counted as nothing.
You have chosen me to be a king of your people, and a judge of your sons and daughters.
And you called me to construct a temple on your holy mount, and, in the city of your dwelling, an altar in the likeness of your holy tabernacle, which you have prepared from the beginning.
And with you is wisdom, who is familiar with your works, and who was nearby when you made the world, and who knows what is pleasing to your eyes, and who is guided by your teachings.
Send her out of your holy heavens and from the throne of your majesty, so that she is with me and labors with me, and I will know what is acceptable with you.
For she knows and understands all things, and will lead me soberly in my works, and will guard me by her power.
And my works will be acceptable, and I will govern your people justly, and I will be worthy of the throne of my father.
For who among men can know the counsel of God? Or who can imagine the will of God?
For the thoughts of mortals are timid, and our foresight is uncertain.
For the corruptible body weighs down the soul, and this earthy dwelling presses many thoughts upon the mind.
And we assess with difficulty the things that are of earth, and we discover with labor the things that are within our view. So who will search out the things that are in heaven?
Moreover, who will know your mind, unless you give wisdom and send your holy spirit from on high?
And in this way, those who are on earth are corrected in their path, and men learn the things that are pleasing to you.
For by wisdom they are saved, who have pleased you, O Lord, from the beginning.”