NOW the law, having a shadow of the good things which were to come, not the very substance of the things, cannot possibly, by the same sacrifices which they offer year by year continually, make those perfect who approach God;
else they would have discontinued to make the offering, because they who performed the service being once made clean, would have had no more sense of sins on their conscience.
But in these sacrifices there is a commemoration of sins every year.
For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sin.
Wherefore, coming into the world, he saith, “Sacrifice and oblation thou hast not chosen, but thou hast exactly fashioned a body for me:
thou hast had no delight in whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin:
then I said, Here am I; (in the volume of the book it is written of me) I come to do thy will, O God.”
Having said before that sacrifice, and oblation, and whole burnt-offerings and sin-offerings thou hast not chosen, nor takest pleasure in, (which are offered according to the law,)
he then added, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He abolishes the first that he may establish the second.
By the which will we are sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ, once for all.
And every priest standeth indeed daily performing the divine service, and frequently offering the same sacrifices, which cannot possibly take away sins:
but this person, having offered one sacrifice for sins, for ever hath seated himself at the right hand of God;
henceforth waiting till his enemies be put as a footstool for his feet.
For by one oblation he hath made those perfect for ever who are sanctified.
Now the Holy Ghost also beareth this testimony to us: for after declaring before,
“This is the testament which I will appoint to them after those days, saith the Lord; giving my laws to their hearts, even on their minds will I inscribe them;”
he adds, “and their sins and their iniquities I will in no wise remember any more.”
Now where there is remission of these, no more offering for sin is needed.
Having therefore, brethren, entire liberty of entrance into the holies by the blood of Jesus―
a way, which he hath consecrated for us, newly opened, and giving life, through the vail, that is, his flesh;
and having a great priest over the house of God,
let us come to him with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and the body washed with pure water:
let us hold fast the profession of hope unwavering, (for he who promises is faithful.)
and let us attentively observe one another, to excite an ardour of love and of good works:
not deserting the assembling of ourselves together, as is the custom with some, but exhorting to it; and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching.
For if we sin wilfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, no more sacrifice for sins remaineth;
but a certain terrible expectation of judgment, and a burning indignation, ready to devour these enemies.
Any man who treated the law of Moses with neglect, was put to death, without mercy, on the deposition of two or three witnesses:
by how much, think ye, shall he be counted worthy of more condign punishment who hath trampled on the Son of God, and regarded the blood of his testament, by which he was sanctified, as an unclean thing, and hath treated the gracious Spirit contumeliously?
For we know him who declares, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord.” And again, “The Lord will judge his people.”
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But remember the past days in which, after ye had been illuminated, ye endured a great conflict of sufferings;
partly while publicly exposed to revilings and tribulations, partly as being in communion with those who were treated in this manner.
For ye have been fellow-sufferers with my bonds, and received with joy the plundering of your properties, knowing in yourselves that you have in the heavens a better substance, and permanent.
Recede not therefore from your boldness of profession, which brings a great recompence of reward.
For ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For yet a little, very little while, and he that is coming will come, and will not delay.
“The just man then will live by faith;” and if he draw back, my soul shall have no delight in him.
But we are not of those who turn back unto perdition; but of those who believe to the salvation of the soul.