These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, collected.
It is the glory of God to conceal a thing; But it is the glory of kings to search out a matter.
As the heavens for their height, And as the earth for its depth, So is the heart of kings unsearchable!
Take away the dross from the silver, And there will come forth a vessel for the founder;
Take away the wicked man from the presence of the king, And his throne will be established by righteousness.
Put not thyself forth in the presence of the king, Nor set thyself in the place of the great;
For better is it that one should say to thee, "Come up hither!" Than that he should put thee in a lower place, In the presence of the prince whom thine eyes behold.
Go not forth hastily to engage in a suit, Lest thou know not what to do in the end of it, When thine adversary hath put thee to shame.
Maintain thy cause with thine adversary, But reveal not another’s secret;
Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, And thy infamy depart not from thee.
A word spoken in season Is like apples of gold in figured-work of silver.
As a ring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, So is a wise reprover to an attentive ear.
As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, So is a faithful messenger to them that send him; For he refresheth the spirit of his masters.
As clouds and wind without rain, So is the man that boasteth falsely of giving.
By long forbearing is a prince appeased; And a soft tongue breaketh bones.
Hast thou found honey? eat what is sufficient for thee, Lest thou be surfeited with it, and vomit it up.
Let thy foot be seldom in the house of thy friend, Lest he be surfeited with thee and hate thee.
A battle-hammer, and a sword, and a sharp arrow, Is the man who beareth false witness against his neighbor.
As a broken tooth, and a wavering foot, So is trust in an unfaithful man in time of trouble.
As he that taketh off a garment on a cold day, As vinegar upon nitre, So is he that singeth songs to a heavy heart.
If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; And if he be thirsty, give him water to drink;
For thou wilt heap coals of fire upon his head, And the LORD will reward thee.
As the north wind bringeth forth rain, So a backbiting tongue maketh an angry countenance.
Better is it to dwell in a corner of the housetop, Than with a quarrelsome woman in a large house.
As cold water to the thirsty, So is good news from a far country.
As a troubled fountain, and as a corrupted spring, So is a righteous man falling before the wicked.
To eat much honey is not good; So the search of high things is weariness.
As a city broken through and without a wall, So is he that hath no rule over his spirit.