But, when the seventh month was come, and the sons of Israel were in cities, then did the people gather themselves together as one man, unto Jerusalem.
Then arose—Jeshua son of Jozadak and his brethren the priests, and Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and his brethren, and built the altar of the God of Israel,—to offer thereon ascending-sacrifices, as it was written in the law of Moses, the man of God.
So they settled the altar upon its stands, for, dread, was upon them, because of the peoples of the countries,—therefore caused they to go up thereon, ascending-sacrifices unto Yahweh, ascending-sacrifices for the morning and for the evening.
And they kept the festival of booths, as it was written,—and the ascending-offering of each day upon its own day, by number, according to regulation, the matter of a day upon its day;
and, afterwards, the continual ascending-sacrifice, and, on the new moons, and on all the appointed seasons of Yahweh, the hallowed things,—also for every one that volunteered a voluntary offering unto Yahweh.
From the first day of the seventh month, began they to offer up ascending-sacrifices unto Yahweh,—but, the temple of Yahweh, had not had its foundation laid.
And they gave silver, unto the masons and carpenters,—and food and drink and oil, unto them of Zidon and unto them of Tyre, to bring in cedar-trees out of the Lebanon, unto the sea of Joppa, according to the grant of Cyrus king of Persia unto them.
Now, in the second year of their coming in unto the house of God, to Jerusalem, in the second month, began Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and Jeshua son of Jozadak and the rest of their brethren—the priests and the Levites, and all that were come out of the captivity to Jerusalem, and stationed the Levites, of twenty years old and upwards, to preside over the work of the house of Yahweh.
So they took their station—even Jeshua, his sons and his brethren, Kadmiel and his sons, sons of Judah, as one man to preside over the doer of the work in the house of God, the sons of Henadad, their sons and their brethren, the Levites.
And, when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of Yahweh, then the priests, enrobed, took their stand with trumpets, and the Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to offer praise unto Yahweh, after the instructions of David king of Israel.
And, when they made responses in offering praise and in giving thanks unto Yahweh—For he is good, for, age-abiding, is his lovingkindness, upon Israel, then, all the people, shouted with a great shout, in offering praise unto Yahweh, over the laying of the foundation of the house of Yahweh.
But, many of the priests and the Levites and the ancestral chiefs, who were old men, that had seen the first house, when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, were weeping with a loud voice,—many, however, shouting and rejoicing, with voice raised on high;
so that the people could not distinguish the noise of the shout of joy, from the noise of the weeping of the people,—for, the people, did shout with a great shout, and, the noise, was heard afar off.