So then, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown,—thus, stand fast in the Lord, beloved.
Euodia, I exhort, and, Syntche, I exhort,—on the same thing, to be resolved in the Lord:—
Yea! I request thee also, true yokefellow, be thou helping together with these women,—who, indeed, in the joyful message, have maintained the combat with me, along with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names, are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always: again, I will say—rejoice!
Let, your considerateness, be known unto all men. The Lord, is near:—
For nothing, be anxious, but, in everything, by your prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let, your petitions, be made known unto God;
And, the peace of God, which riseth above every mind, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts, in Christ Jesus.
For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are dignified, whatsoever things are righteous, whatsoever things are chaste, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report,—if there be any virtue, and if any praise, the same, be taking into account;
The things which ye have both learned, and accepted, and heard, and seen in me, the same, practise;—and, the God of peace, shall be with you.
Howbeit I have been made to rejoice in the Lord greatly—that, now, at length, ye have flourished in your care for me,—although, indeed, ye were caring, but lacked opportunity.
Not that, as to coming short, I am speaking, for, I, have learned, in whatsoever circumstances I am, to be, independent:
I know [what it is] even to be kept low, and I know [what it is] to have more than enough,—in every way, and in all things, have I been let into the secret—both to be well fed, and to be hungering, both to have more than enough, and to be coming short:
I have might, for all things, in him that empowereth me.
Nevertheless, nobly, have ye done, in taking fellowship with me in my tribulation.
Ye know, moreover, even ye, Philippians,—that, in the beginning of the glad-message, when I went forth from Macedonia, not, so much as one assembly, with me had fellowship—in the matter of giving and receiving—save, ye alone,—
That, even in Thessalonica, both once and again, unto my need, ye sent:—
Not that I seek after the gift, but I seek after the fruit that is to abound unto your account.
But I have all things in full, and have more than enough, I am filled, having welcomed from Epaphroditus the things that came from you,—a fragrance of sweet smell, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing unto God.
And, my God, will fill up your every need, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Now, unto our God and Father, be the glory—unto the ages of ages. Amen!
Salute ye every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me, salute you.
All the saints salute you, but especially they who are of Caesar’s household.
The favour of our Lord Jesus Christ, be with your spirit.