And Abraham added and took a wife, and her name was Keturah.
And she bore to him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
And Jokshan fathered Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim and Leummim.
And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
And Abraham gave all that was his to Isaac.
And to the sons of the concubines who were to Abraham, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away eastward, from his son Isaac, while still alive to an eastern land.
And these are the days of the years of the life of Abraham, which he lived, one hundred seventy five years.
And Abraham expired and died in a good old age, aged and satisfied, and was gathered to his people.
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him at the cave of Mach-pelah, at the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite which is before Mamre,
The field which Abraham bought from the sons of Heth. Abraham and his wife Sarah were buried there.
And it happened after the death of Abraham, God blessed his son Isaac. And Isaac lived by The Well of the Living One, My Beholder.
And these are the generations of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, whom Hagar the Egyptian, the slave-girl of Sarah, bore to Abraham.
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the first born of Ishmael was Nebajoth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
Hadad, and Tema, and Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
These were the sons of Ishmael, and these their names in their settlements and in their camps, twelve chiefs according to their nations.
And these were the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred thirty seven years. And he expired and died, and was gathered to his people.
And they lived from Havilah to Shur, which is facing Egypt as you come toward Assyria; he settled facing all his brothers.
And these were the generations of Isaac, the son of Abraham: Abraham fathered Isaac.
And Isaac was a son of forty years when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean from Padanaram, the sister of Laban the Aramean, to him for a wife.
And Isaac prayed to Jehovah for his wife for she was barren. And Jehovah was entreated for him, and his wife Rebekah conceived.
And the sons struggled together within her. And she said, If this is right, why am I this way? And she went to ask Jehovah.
And Jehovah said to her, Two nations are in your womb; even two peoples shall break from your body And one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger.
And her days were fulfilled to bear. And behold! Twins were in her womb.
And the first came out, all of him red like a hairy robe; and they called his name Esau.
And afterward his brother came out, and his hand was holding to the heel of Esau; and his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was a son of sixty years when she bore them.
And the boys grew up. And Esau became a man knowing hunting, a man of the field. And Jacob was a simple man, living in tents.
And Isaac loved Esau, for game was in his mouth. And Rebekah loved Jacob.
And Jacob boiled soup. And Esau came from the field, and he was faint.
And Esau said to Jacob, Please let me eat of the red, this red soup , for I am faint. On account of this his name is called Edom.
And Jacob said, Sell me your birthright today.
And Esau said, Behold, I am going to die, and what good is this, a birthright to me?
And Jacob said, Swear to me today. And he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob.
And Jacob gave bread and soup of lentils to Esau. And he ate and drank, and rose up and left. And Esau despised the birthright.