Jesus spoke these things and lifted up His eyes to Heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify Your Son, that Your Son may also glorify You,
as You gave to Him authority over all flesh, so that to all which You gave to Him, He may give to them everlasting life.
And this is everlasting life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom You have sent.
I have glorified You on the earth. I finished the work that You gave Me to do.
And now Father, glorify Me with Yourself, with the glory which I had with You before the existence of the world.
I revealed Your name to the men whom You gave to Me out of the world. They were Yours, and You gave them to Me; and they have kept Your Word.
Now they have known that all things, whatever You gave to Me, are from You.
For the words which You gave to Me, I have given to them. And they received and truly knew that I came out from beside You, and they believed that You sent Me.
I pray concerning them; I do not pray concerning the world, but for those whom You gave to Me, for they are Yours.
And all My things are Yours, and Yours are Mine; and I have been glorified in them.
And no longer I am in the world, yet these are in the world; and I come to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your name, those whom You gave to Me, that they may be one as We are .
While I was with them in the world, I kept them in Your name; I guarded those whom You gave to Me, and not one of them was lost, except the son of perdition, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
And now I come to You, and I speak these things in the world, that they may have My joy fulfilled in them.
I have given them Your Word, and the world hated them because they are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
I do not pray that You take them out of the world, but that You keep them from evil.
They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them in Your truth; Your Word is truth.
As You have sent Me into the world, I also have sent them into the world,
and I sanctify Myself for them, that they also may be sanctified in truth.
And I do not pray concerning these only, but also concerning those who will believe in Me through their word;
that all may be one, as You are in Me, Father, and I in You, that they also may be one in Us, that the world may believe that You sent Me.
And I have given them the glory which You have given Me, that they may be one, as We are one:
I in them, and You in Me, that they may be perfected in one; and that the world may know that You sent Me and loved them, even as You loved Me.
Father, I desire that those whom You have given Me, that where I am, they may be with Me also, that they may behold My glory which You gave Me, because You loved Me before the foundation of the world.
Righteous Father, indeed the world did not know You, but I knew You; and these have known that You sent Me.
And I made known to them Your name, and will make it known, that the love with which You loved Me may be in them, and I in them.