And it happened when the king dwelt in his house, and when the LORD had given him rest round about from all his enemies,
the king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I live in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells within curtains.
And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart, for the LORD is with you.
And that night the word of the LORD came to Nathan saying,
Go and tell My servant David, So says the LORD, Shall you build Me a house for My dwelling?
For I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up the sons out of Egypt until this day, but have walked in a tent, even in a tabernacle.
In all places in which I have walked with all the sons of Israel, did I speak a word with any of the tribes of Israel, those I commanded to feed My people Israel, saying, Why do you not build Me a house of cedars?
And now so shall you say to My servant David, So says the LORD of hosts: I took you from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, to be ruler over My people, over Israel.
And I was with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies out of your sight, and have made you a great name like the name of the great ones in the earth.
And I will appoint a place for My people Israel, and will plant them so that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more. Neither shall the sons of wickedness afflict them any more, as before.
And even from the time that I commanded judges to be over My people of Israel, so will I cause you to rest from all your enemies. Also the LORD tells you that He will make you a house.
And when your days are fulfilled, and you shall sleep with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who shall come out of your bowels. And I will make his kingdom sure.
He shall build a house for My name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
I will be his Father, and he shall be My son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the sons of men.
But My mercy shall not leave him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before you.
And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before you. Your throne shall be established forever.
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David.
Then king David went in and sat before the LORD. And he said, Who am I, O Lord Jehovah? And what is my house, that You have brought me here?
And this was yet a small thing in Your sight, O Lord God. But You have spoken also of Your servant's house for a great while to come. And is this the manner of men, O Lord God?
And what can David say more to You? For You, O Lord Jehovah, know Your servant.
For Your word's sake, and according to Your own heart, You have done all these great things to make Your servant know.
Therefore You are great, O LORD God. For there is none like You, neither is there any God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
And what one nation in the earth is like Your people, like Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to Himself, and to make Him a name, and to do for You great things and terrible, for Your land, before Your people, whom You redeemed to You from Egypt, from the nations and their gods?
For You have confirmed to Yourself Your people Israel to be a people to You forever. And You, LORD, have become their God.
And now, O LORD God, the word that You have spoken concerning Your servant, and concerning his house: establish it forever, and do as You have said.
And let Your name be magnified forever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God over Israel. And let the house of Your servant David be established before You.
For You, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, have revealed to Your servant, saying, I will build you a house. Therefore Your servant has found in his heart to pray this prayer to You.
And now, O Lord Jehovah, You are that God, and Your words are true, and You have promised this goodness to Your servant.
Therefore, now, let it please You to bless the house of Your servant, to be forever before You. For You, O Lord GOD, have spoken. And with Your blessing let the house of Your servant be blessed forever.