After these things the word of the LORD came to Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am your shield and your exceeding great reward.
And Abram said, Lord God, what will You give me, since I am going childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
And Abram said, Behold, You have given no seed to me. And behold, one born in my house is my heir.
And behold, the word of the LORD came to him saying, This one shall not be your heir. But he that shall come forth out of your own bowels shall be your heir.
And He brought him outside and said, Look now toward the heavens and count the stars, if you are able to count them. And He said to him, So shall your seed be.
And he believed in the LORD. And He counted it to him for righteousness.
And He said to him, I am the LORD that brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give you this land to inherit it.
And he said, Lord God, by what shall I know that I shall inherit it?
And He said to him, Take Me a heifer of three years old, and a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtledove, and a young pigeon.
And he took all these to himself, and divided them in the middle, and laid each piece against one another; but he did not divide the birds.
And when the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away.
And it happened as the sun was setting, and a deep sleep fell upon Abram. And, behold, a horror of great darkness fell upon him!
And He said to Abram, You must surely know that your seed shall be a stranger in a land not theirs, and shall serve them. And they shall afflict them four hundred years.
And also I will judge that nation whom they shall serve. And afterward they shall come out with great substance.
And you shall go to your fathers in peace. You shall be buried in a good old age.
But in the fourth generation they shall come here again, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.
And it happened, the sun went down, and it was dark and behold, a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp passed between those pieces.
In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, I have given this land to your seed, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates,
the Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites,
and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the giants,
and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.