Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heauenly vocation, consider the Apostle and high Priest of our profession Christ Iesus:
Who was faithfull to him that hath appointed him, euen as Moses was in al his house.
For this man is counted worthy of more glory then Moses, inasmuch as he which hath builded the house, hath more honour then the house.
For euery house is builded of some man, and he that hath built all things, is God.
Now Moses verely was faithfull in all his house, as a seruant, for a witnesse of the thinges which should be spoken after.
But Christ is as the Sonne, ouer his owne house, whose house we are, if we holde fast that confidence and that reioycing of that hope vnto the ende.
Wherefore, as the holy Ghost sayth, To day if ye shall heare his voyce,
Harden not your hearts, as in the prouocation, according to the day of the tentation in the wildernes,
Where your fathers tempted me, prooued me, and sawe my workes fourtie yeeres long.
Wherefore I was grieued with that generation, and sayde, They erre euer in their heart, neither haue they knowen my wayes.
Therefore I sware in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest.
Take heede, brethren, least at any time there be in any of you an euill heart, and vnfaithfull, to depart away from the liuing God.
But exhort one another dayly, while it is called to day, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulnes of sinne.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we keepe sure vnto the ende that beginning, wherewith we are vpholden,
So long as it is sayd, To day if ye heare his voyce, harden not your hearts, as in the prouocation.
For some when they heard, prouoked him to anger: howbeit, not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
But with whome was he displeased fourtie yeeres? Was hee not displeased with them that sinned, whose carkeises fell in the wildernes?
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but vnto them that obeyed not?
So we see that they could not enter in, because of vnbeliefe.