And it came to pass, on a Sabbath, that he was passing along through cornfields, and his disciples were plucking and eating the ears of corn, rubbing them with their hands.
But, certain of the Pharisees, said—Why are ye doing what is not allowed on the Sabbath?
And, making answer unto them, Jesus said—Have ye never read, even this, what David did when he hungered, he, and they who were with him—
How he entered into the house of God, and, the presence-bread, receiving, did eat, and gave to them who were with him, which it is not allowable to eat, save alone, to the priests?
And he was saying to them—The Son of Man is, Lord of the Sabbath.
And it came to pass, on another Sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue, and was teaching, and there was a man there, and, his right hand, was withered.
Now the Scribes and the Pharisees were narrowly watching him, whether, on the Sabbath, he healeth,—that they might find whereof to accuse him.
But, he, knew their reasonings, and said to the man who had the, withered, hand—Arise, and stand forward in the midst! And, arising, he stood forward.
And Jesus said unto them—I ask you, whether it is allowed, on the Sabbath, to do good or to do harm,—life, to save, or, to destroy.
And, looking round upon them all, he said unto him—Stretch forth thy hand! and, he, did so, and his hand was restored.
But, they, were filled with folly, and began conversing one with another, as to, what they might do with Jesus.
And it came to pass, in these days, that he went forth into the mountain to pray, and was spending the night in the prayer-house of God.
And, when it became day, he called his disciples, and chose from them, twelve, whom also he named, Apostles,—
Simon, whom also he named Peter, and Andrew his brother; and James and John; and Philip and Bartholomew;
and Matthew and Thomas; and James, son of Alphaeus, and Simon, who was called Zealot; and Judas, [son] of James,
and Judas Iscariot, who became betrayer;—
and, coming down with them, he stood upon a level place, also a great multitude of his disciples,—and a great throng of the people, from all Judaea and Jerusalem and the sea-coast of Tyre and Zidon, who had come to hearken unto him and to be healed from their diseases;
and, they who were molested by impure spirits, were being cured;
and, all the multitude, were seeking to touch him, because, power, from him, was coming forth, and healing all.
And, he, lifting up his eyes towards his disciples, was saying:—Happy, ye destitute, for, yours, is the kingdom of God.
Happy, ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Happy, ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh.
Happy, are ye, whensoever men shall hate you, and whensoever they shall separate you, and reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the sake of the Son of Man:
be rejoiced in that day, and leap, for lo! your reward, is great in heaven; for, according to the same things, were their fathers doing unto the prophets.
But alas! for you, ye wealthy, for ye are duly receiving you consolation.
Alas! for you, ye who are filled full now, for ye shall hunger. Alas! ye that laugh now, for ye shall mourn and weep.
Alas! whensoever all men shall, speak well of you, for, according to the same things, were their fathers doing unto the false prophets.
But, unto you, I say, who are hearkening: Be loving your enemies; be doing, good, unto them that hate you;
Be blessing them that curse you; be praying for them that wantonly insult you.
To him who is smiting thee upon the one cheek, be offering, the other also; and, from him who is taking away thy mantle, thy tunic also, do not forbid:
To every one asking thee, give, and, from him that taketh away thy possessions, ask them not back.
And, according as ye desire that men be doing unto you, be ye doing unto them, in like manner.
And, if ye love them that love you, what sort of thanks are there for you? for, even sinners, love, such as love them.
[For], if ye even do good unto them that do good unto you, what sort of thanks are there for you? Even sinners, the same, are doing.
And, if ye lend to them from whom ye are hoping to receive, what sort of thanks are there for you? Even sinners, unto sinners, do lend, that they may receive back, as much.
But love your enemies, and do good and lend, hoping for, nothing, back; and your reward shall be, great, and ye shall be sons of the Most High,—for, he, is, gracious, unto the ungrateful and wicked.
Become ye compassionate, according as, your Father, is, compassionate;
And do not judge, and in nowise shall ye be judged; and do not condemn, and in nowise shall ye be condemned; release, and ye shall be released;
Give, and it shall be given unto you: good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will they give into your lap; for, with what measure ye mete, shall it be measured back unto you.
He spake, moreover, a parable also, unto them: Can, the blind, guide, the blind? will not, both, fall into, a ditch?
A disciple is not above the teacher; but, when trained, every one shall be as his teacher.
But why beholdest thou the mote that is in the eye of thy brother, while, the beam that is in thine own eye, thou dost not consider?
How canst thou say to thy brother—Brother! let me cast out the mote that is in thine eye,—thyself, the beam in thine own eye, not beholding? Hypocrite! cast out, first, the beam out of thine own eye, and, then, shalt thou see clearly, to cast out, the mote that is in the eye of thy brother.
For a good tree doth not produce worthless fruit, neither again doth, a worthless tree, produce good fruit.
For, every tree, by its own fruit, becometh known. For not, of thorns, do they gather figs, neither, of a bramble-bush, do they gather, a bunch of grapes.
The good man, out of the good treasure of the heart, bringeth forth that which is good; and, the wicked man, out of the wicked heart, bringeth forth that which is wicked; for, out of an overflowing of heart, speaketh, his mouth.
And why call ye me, Lord! Lord! and not do the things that I say?
Every one coming unto me, and hearkening unto my words, and doing them, I will suggest to you, whom he is like:
He is like unto a man building a house, who digged, and deepened, and laid a foundation upon the rock,—and, a flood, coming, the stream burst against that house, and was not strong enough to shake it, because it had been, well, built.
But, he that hath heard and not done, is like unto a man having built a house upon the earth, without a foundation,—against which the stream burst, and, straightway, it fell in; and it came to pass, that, the crash of that house, was, great.