And they pulled out from Elim And all the congregation of the sons of Israel came into the Wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their going out from the land of Egypt.
And all the congregation of the sons of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron in the wilderness.
And the sons of Israel said to them, Would that we had died by the hand of Jehovah in the land of Egypt, in our sitting by the fleshpots, in our eating bread to satisfaction. For you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill all this assembly with hunger.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Behold, I AM ! Bread will rain from the heavens for you. And the people shall go out and gather the matter of a day in its day, so that I may test them, whether they will walk in My law or not.
And it shall be on the sixth day they shall prepare what they bring in. And it shall be double what they gather day by day.
And Moses and Aaron said to all the sons of Israel, At evening. you shall know that Jehovah has brought you from the land of Egypt;
and in the morning you shall see the glory of Jehovah, in His hearing your murmurings against Jehovah. And we, what are we that you murmur against us?
And Moses said, When Jehovah gives you flesh to eat in the evening, and bread in the morning, to satisfaction; when Jehovah hears your murmurings which you are murmuring against Him, you will see . And what are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against Jehovah.
And Moses spoke to Aaron, Say to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, Come near before Jehovah; for He has heard your murmurings.
And it happened, as Aaron was speaking to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, they turned toward the wilderness. And, behold! The glory of Jehovah appeared in the cloud!
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
I have heard the murmurings of the sons of Israel. Speak to them, saying, Between the evenings you shall eat flesh; and in the morning you shall be satisfied with bread; and you shall know that I am Jehovah your God.
And it happened in the evening: the quail came up and covered the camp. And in the morning a layer of dew was around the camp.
And the layer of dew went up, and, behold, something small was on the face of the wilderness, scalelike, small like the hoarfrost on the earth.
And the sons of Israel looked. And they said, each one to his brother, What is that? For they did not know what it was . And Moses said to them, That is the bread which Jehovah has given to you for food.
This is the thing which Jehovah commanded. Gather from it, each one according to the mouth of his eating; an omer for a head. By the number of your souls you shall take for each man who is in your tent.
And so the sons of Israel did. And they gathered; the one gathering much and the one gathering little.
And they measured with an omer. And the one gathering much did not have too much. And the one gathering little did not have any need. Each one gathered according to the mouth of his eating.
And Moses said to them, Do not let anyone leave from it until morning.
And they did not listen to Moses. And some left from it until morning; and it became rotten with maggots, and stunk. And Moses was angry against them.
And they gathered it in the morning, each one in the morning according to the mouth of his eating. And it melted in the heat of the sun.
And it came about on the sixth day, they gathered double bread, two omers for one. And all the leaders of the congregation came and reported to Moses.
And he said to them, That is what Jehovah said, Tomorrow is a rest, a holy sabbath to Jehovah. What you will bake, bake. And boil what you will boil. And lay up for yourselves all that is left over, to keep it until the morning.
And they laid it up until the morning, as Moses commanded. And it did not stink and no maggot was in it.
And Moses said, Eat it today, for today is a sabbath to Jehovah. Today you will not find it in the field.
You shall gather it six days, and on the seventh is a sabbath; in it none shall be found.
And it happened on the seventh day, some of the people went out to gather, and did not find any .
And Jehovah said to Moses, Until when do you refuse to keep My commandments and My laws?
Behold! Because Jehovah has given the sabbath to you, therefore He is giving to you two days of bread on the sixth day. Each one of you remain in his place. Do not let anyone go out from his place on the seventh day.
And the people rested on the seventh day.
And the house of Israel called its name, Manna. And it was like the seed of coriander, white; and its taste like cakes with honey.
And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah has commanded, Fill an omer from it, to keep for your generations, so that they may see the bread which I caused you to eat in the wilderness, as I brought you out from the land of Egypt.
And Moses said to Aaron, Take a pitcher and put manna there. the fullness of an omer, and lay it up before Jehovah, to keep for your generations.
Even as Jehovah commanded Moses, Aaron laid it up before the Testimony, to keep it .
And the sons of Israel ate the manna forty years, until their coming into an inhabited land. They ate the manna until their coming to the border of the land of Canaan.
And the omer was the tenth of an ephah.