AND again he began to teach by the sea side: and a vast multitude was assembled about him, so that he went into a vessel to sit down on the sea, and all the multitude was on the land close by the sea.
And he taught them in parables many things, and said unto them in the course of his teaching,
Hear me! Behold, a sower went out to sow;
and it came to pass as he sowed, some fell by the road side, and the birds of the air came and ate it up.
And some fell on a rocky soil, where it had not much mold, and immediately it sprung up, because it had no depth of earth:
and when the sun arose it was scorched up; and because it had not root, it withered away.
And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it, and it produced no fruit.
And some fell on good ground, and produced fruit, growing up, and increasing, and yielded one part thirty fold, and another sixty, and another an hundred.
And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
But when they were alone, those who were about him with the twelve, asked him the meaning of the parable.
And he said to them, To you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God; but to those who are without, all things are in parables:
That seeing they may see, yet not perceive; and hearing may hear, yet not understand; lest at any time they should be converted, and their sins be forgiven them.
And he saith to them, Know ye not this parable? and how will ye know all parables?
The sower soweth the word.
Now these are they by the road side; where the word is sown; and when they have heard, immediately Satan cometh, and taketh away the word sown on their hearts:
and these in like manner are they who were sown on the rocky soil; who when they have heard the word, instantly with joy receive it;
and have no root in themselves, but are temporary professors: afterwards, when tribulation cometh or persecution for the word’s sake, immediately they are offended.
And those are the sown among the thorns; such as are hearers of the word;
but the anxious cares of this world, and the seducing nature of wealth, and inordinate desires after other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful.
And these are they who are sown on the good ground, such as hear the word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirty fold, and some sixty, and some an hundred.
And he said unto them, Is a lamp brought out to be put under a bushel, or under a bed, and not to be placed on a stand?
For there is nothing hid, but that it should be brought to light, nor is any thing concealed, but that it should come into open day.
If any man hath ears to hear, let him hear.
And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with the measure ye mete, shall it be measured back to you; and something over shall be given to you that hear.
For to him that hath, there shall more be given to him; but he that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away from him.
And he said, The kingdom of heaven is of that kind, as if a man should cast seed into his field;
and sleep and rise, night and day, and the sown corn should sprout, and grow into length, he knoweth not how:
for the earth, naturally prolific, beareth fruit; first the blade, then the ear, then the full corn in the ear.
But when the grain is ready, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because harvest is come.
And he said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God, and under what parabolic figure shall I represent it?
It is like a grain of mustard, which when it is sown in the earth, is among the least of all the seeds which are upon the earth:
but when it is sown, it groweth up and becomes greater than all herbaceous plants, and produceth vast branches; so that the birds of the air may roost under the shadow of it.
And with many such like parables spake he to them the word.
And without a parable spake he not unto them; but in private he explained them all to his disciples.
And the same day he saith unto them, as the evening shut in, Let us pass over to the other side.
And sending the multitude away, they took him just as he was in the vessel; and there were also some other little vessels with him.
And a great hurricane arose, and the waves broke into the vessel, so that it was now full of water:
and he was in the stern, sleeping on a pillow: and they awoke him, and say unto him, Master, is it no concern to thee that we are perishing?
And rising, he with authority charged the wind, and said to the sea, Silence! be still! And the wind subsided, and there was a great calm.
And he said to them, Why are ye so timorous? How is it that ye have not confidence?
And they were filled with the most reverential awe, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?