And he entered again into the synagogue, and a man was there who had a withered hand.
And they watched him whether he would heal him on the sabbath day, so that they might accuse him.
And he says to the man who had a withered hand, Stand up in the midst.
And he says to them, Is it permitted to do good on the sabbath day or to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent.
And having looked around on them with anger, being grieved at the callousness of their heart, he says to the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as the other.
And the Pharisees having gone out, they straightaway were making a plot with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.
And Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him.
And from Judea, and from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and beyond the Jordan, and around Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, having heard how many things he did, came to him.
And he spoke to his disciples that a small boat would stay by him because of the crowd, lest they should throng him.
For he healed many, so as to press upon him, so that as many as had afflictions might touch him.
And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him, and cried out, saying, Thou are the Son of God.
And he chided them much that they should not make him known.
And he goes up onto the mountain, and calls in those whom he himself wanted, and they went to him.
And he appointed twelve men, so that they might be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach,
and to have authority to heal diseases and to cast out demons.
And he added to Simon the name Peter;
and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and he added to them the name Boanerges, which is, Sons of thunder;
and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. And they come to a house.
And the multitude comes together again, so as for them, no, not even to be able to eat bread.
And when those with him heard it, they went out to grasp him, for they said, He is beside himself.
And the scholars who came down from Jerusalem said, He has Beelzebub, and, By the ruler of the demons he casts out the demons.
And having summoned them, he said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
And if Satan has rise up against himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end.
But no man, having enter into the house of the strong man, can plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he may plunder his house.
Truly I say to you, that all the sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and the blasphemies, as many as they may blaspheme.
But whoever may blaspheme against the Holy Spirit has no forgiveness, into the age, but is deserving of eternal damnation,
because they said, He has an unclean spirit.
Then his brothers and mother come, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him.
And a multitude was sitting around him, and they said to him, Behold, thy mother, and thy brothers, and thy sisters, outside seek for thee.
And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother and my brothers?
And having looked around at those who sat about him, he says, Behold, my mother and my brothers.
For whoever may do the will of God, the same is my brother and sister and mother.