And some were present at the same time reporting to Him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate mixed with their sacrifices.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Do you think that these Galileans were sinners beyond all the Galileans, because they suffered such things?
No, I say to you; but if you do not repent, you will all perish in the same way.
Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them, do you think that these were sinners beyond all men who lived in Jerusalem?
No, I say to you; but if you do not repent, you will all perish in the same way.
And He spoke this parable: A certain one had planted a fig tree in his vineyard. And he came looking for fruit on it and did not find any .
And he said to the vinedresser, Behold, three years I come looking for fruit on this fig tree, and found none. Cut it down, and why does it waste the ground?
And the vinedresser said to him, Sir, leave it also this year until I shall dig around it and throw manure;
and see if it indeed makes fruit. But if not, in the future you may cut it down.
And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on one of the sabbaths.
And, behold, there was a woman having a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bent together and was not able to be completely erect.
And seeing her, Jesus called her near and said to her, Woman, you have been freed from your infirmity.
And He laid hands on her. And instantly she was made erect and glorified God.
But answering, being angry that Jesus healed on the sabbath, the synagogue ruler said to the crowd, There are six days in which it is right to work. Therefore, coming in these, be healed, and not on the sabbath day.
Then the Lord answered him and said, Hypocrite! Each one of you on the sabbath, does he not untie his ox or ass from the manger, and leading it away, give it drink?
And this one being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound, lo, eighteen years, ought she not to be freed from this bond on the sabbath day?
And on His saying these things, all who were opposed to Him were ashamed. And all the crowd rejoiced over all the glorious things taking place by Him.
And He said, What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it?
It is like a grain of mustard which a man having taken threw into his garden. And it grew and became a great tree, and the birds of the heaven perched in its branches.
And again He said, To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
It is like leaven, which taking, a woman hid in three measures of meal until all was leavened.
And He went through by cities and villages, teaching and making progress toward Jerusalem.
And one said to Him, Lord, are the ones being saved few? But He said to them,
Labor to enter in through the narrow gate, for I say to you that many will seek to enter in and will not have strength.
From the time the Master of the house shall have risen up, and He shuts the door, and you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. And answering, He will say to you, I do not know you. From where are you?
Then you will begin to say, We ate and drank in Your presence, and You taught in our streets.
And He will say, I tell you I do not know you, from where you are. "Stand back from Me all workers of unrighteousness!" Psa. 6:8
There will be weeping and gnashing of the teeth when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but yourselves being thrust outside.
And they will come from east and west, and from north and south, and will recline in the kingdom of God.
And, behold, there are last ones who will be first, and there are first ones who will be last.
In the same day, certain Pharisees came saying to Him, Go out and go on from here, for Herod desires to kill you.
And He said to them, Going, say to that fox, Behold, today and tomorrow I cast out demons and I complete cures, and the third day I am perfected.
But today and tomorrow and on the following day I must travel on. For it is not possible for a prophet to perish outside Jerusalem.
Jerusalem! Jerusalem! The one killing the prophets, and stoning those having been sent to her, how often I desired to gather your children in the way a hen gathers her brood under the wings, and you did not desire  it .
Behold, "your house is left" to you "desolate". Jer. 22:5 And truly I say to you, You shall not at all see Me until it come when you say, "Blessed is the One coming in the name of the Lord." Psa. 118:26