And it came to pass in Iconium that they went [both] together into the synagogue of the Jews and so spoke, that a great multitude both of the Jews and also of the Greeks believed.
But the disobedient Jews stirred up the Gentiles and corrupted their desire against the brethren.
With all this, they abode there a long time speaking with freedom in the Lord, who gave testimony unto the word of his grace and granted that signs and wonders be done by their hands.
But the multitude of the city was divided, and part held with the Jews, and part with the apostles.
And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles and also of the Jews with their princes, to insult [them] and to stone them,
they were aware of [it] and fled unto Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and unto the region that lies round about.
And there they preached the gospel.
And a certain man sat at Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked;
this [man] heard Paul speak, who steadfastly beholding him and perceiving that he had faith to be healed,
said with a loud voice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.
And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men.
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and Paul, Mercurius because he was the chief speaker.
Then the priest of Jupiter, who was before their city, brought bulls and garlands unto the gates and would have done sacrifice unto them with the people.
[Which] when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard [of it], they rent their clothes and ran in among the people, crying out
and saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions with you and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all the things that are therein,
who in generations past suffered all the Gentiles to walk in their own ways.
Nevertheless he did not leave himself without witness, in that he did good and gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.
And with these words they scarcely restrained the people, that they not sacrifice unto them.
And [certain] Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there, who persuaded the people, and, having stoned Paul, drew [him] out of the city, supposing he was dead.
But as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up and came into the city, and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe.
And when they had preached the gospel to that city and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra and [to] Iconium and Antioch,
confirming the souls of the disciples [and] exhorting them to remain in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God.
And having ordained elders for them in every church and having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord on whom they believed.
And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down into Attalia
and from there sailed to Antioch, where they had been recommended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled.
And when they were come and had gathered the church together, they related what great things God had done with them and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles.
And there they abode [a] long time with the disciples.: