Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins, who, having taken their lamps, went forth to the bridegroom's gathering.
And five of them were wise, and five were foolish,
foolish women, who, having taken their lamps, took no olive oil with them.
But the wise took olive oil in their vessels with their lamps.
Now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept.
But at midnight a shout occurred, Behold, the bridegroom comes! Go ye forth for his gathering.
Then all those virgins were roused, and put their lamps in order.
And the foolish said to the wise, Give us from your olive oil, because our lamps are going out.
But the wise answered, saying, Perhaps there may not be enough for us and you. But go ye rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.
And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came. And the prepared entered in with him for the wedding festivities, and the door was shut.
But afterward the other virgins also came, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
But having answered, he said, Truly I say to you, I know you not.
Watch therefore, because ye know not the day nor the hour in which the Son of man comes.
For, like a man going on a journey, he called his own bondmen, and delivered to them the things possessed by him.
And to one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his personal ability, and straightaway he journeyed.
And having departed, the man who received the five talents worked with them, and made five other talents.
And likewise also the man of the two gained two others.
But having departed, the man who received the one dug in the ground, and hid his lord's silver.
Now after a long time the lord of those bondmen comes, and takes up accounting with them.
And having come, the man who received the five talents brought five other talents, saying, Lord, thou delivered five talents to me, lo, I have gained five other talents besides them.
And his lord said to him, Well, good and faithful bondman. Thou were faithful over a few things, I will appoint thee over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
And also having come, the man who received the two talents said, Lord, thou delivered two talents to me, lo, I have gained two other talents besides them.
His lord said to him, Well, good and faithful bondman. Thou were faithful over a few things, I will appoint thee over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
And the man who received the one talent also having come, said, Lord, I knew thee that thou are a hard man, reaping where thou did not sow, and gathering from where thou did not scatter.
And after being afraid, having gone, I hid thy talent in the ground. Lo, thou have thine own.
But having answered, his lord said to him, Thou evil and lazy bondman, thou knew that I reap where I sowed not, and gather from where I did not scatter.
Thou ought therefore to have placed my silver with the bankers, and having come I would have received back my own with interest.
Take ye therefore the talent from him, and give it to him who has the ten talents.
For to every man who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who has not, even what he has will be taken away from him.
And cast ye the unprofitable bondman into the outer darkness. There will be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
But when the Son of man comes in his glory, and all the holy agents with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
And all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from each other, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
And he will truly place the sheep at his right hand, but the goats at the left.
Then the King will say to those at his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
For I was hungry, and ye gave me to eat. I was thirsty, and ye gave me to drink. I was a stranger, and ye took me in,
naked, and ye clothed me. I was feeble, and ye came to help me. I was in prison, and ye came to me.
Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see thee hungering, and fed thee, or thirsting, and gave thee drink?
And when did we see thee a stranger, and took thee in, or naked, and clothed thee?
And when did we see thee weak, or in prison, and came to thee?
And having answered, the King will say to them, Truly I say to you, inasmuch as ye did it to one of these my brothers, the least, ye did it to me.
Then he will also say to those at the left hand, Depart from me, ye accursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his agents.
For I was hungry, and ye did not give me to eat, I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink,
I was a stranger, and ye did not take me in, naked, and ye did not clothe me, weak, and in prison, and ye did not come to help me.
Then they will also answer, saying, Lord, when did we see thee hungering, or thirsting, or a stranger, or naked, or weak, or in prison, and did not serve thee?
Then he will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of these least, ye did it not to me.
And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.