[ALEPH.] How happy the men of blameless life, who walk in the law of Yahweh.
How happy they who observe his testimonies, with a whole heart, they seek him.
Yea, they have not wrought perversity, In his ways, have they walked.
Thou, hast commanded thy precepts, that they should be diligently kept.
Oh would that my ways might be settled! that I might keep thy statutes.
Then, shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.
I will thank thee with uprightness of heart, when I have learned thy righteous regulations.
Thy statutes, will I keep, Do not thou forsake me utterly.
[BETH.] Wherewithal can a young man keep pure his way? By taking heed, according to thy word.
With all my heart, have I sought thee, Suffer me not to be led astray from thy commandments.
In my heart, have I treasured what thou hast said, to the end I may not sin against thee.
Blessed art thou, O Yahweh—Teach me thy statutes.
With my lips, have I recounted All the regulations of thy mouth.
In the way of thy testimonies, have I rejoiced, Like as over all riches.
In thy precepts, will I meditate, that I may discern thy paths.
In thy statutes, will I find my dear delight, I will not forget thy word.
[GIMEL.] Bestow thy bounties upon thy servant—let me live, That I may observe thy word.
Unveil thou mine eyes, that I may discern Wondrous things out of thy law.
A sojourner, am, I, in the earth, Do not hide from me, thy commandments.
My soul is crushed with longing for thy just decisions at all times.
Thou hast rebuked the proud as accursed, who stray from thy commandments.
Roll from off me, reproach and contempt, For, thy testimonies, have I observed.
Even rulers have taken their seat, against me, have talked, Thy servant, will still meditate in thy statutes.
Yea, thy testimonies, are my dear delight, My counsellors.
[DALETH.] My soul, cleaveth to the dust, Give me life, according to thy word.
My ways, I recounted, and thou didst answer me, Teach me thy statutes.
The way of thy precepts, cause thou me to understand, and I will indeed meditate in thy wonders.
My soul weepeth itself away, for grief, Confirm thou me, according to thy word.
The way of falsehood, take thou from me, and, with thy law, O favour me.
The way of faithfulness, have I chosen, Thy regulations, have I deemed right.
I have kept close to thy testimonies, O Yahweh! do not put me to shame.
The way of thy commandments, will I run, for thou wilt enlarge my heart.
[HE.] Point out to me, O Yahweh, the way of thy statutes, that I may observe it unto the end.
Give me understanding, that I may observe thy law, that I may keep it with a whole heart.
Guide me in the path of thy commandments, for, therein, do I find pleasure.
Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not unto unjust gain.
Turn away mine eyes, from beholding vanity, In thy way, give me life.
Establish, unto thy servant, thy word, which pertaineth to the reverence of thee.
Cause to pass away my reproach, that I have feared, for, thy regulations, are good.
Lo! I have longed for thy precepts, In thy righteousness, give me life.
[WAW.] And let thy lovingkindness reach me, O Yahweh, thy salvation, according to thy word.
So shall I have something to answer him that reproacheth me, That I have trusted in thy word.
And do not snatch away from my mouth the word of truth in any wise, because, for thy regulation, have I waited.
That I may keep thy law continually, to times age-abiding and beyond.
That I may walk to and fro in a large place, because, thy precepts, have I sought.
That I may speak of thy testimonies before kings, and not be ashamed.
That I may find dear delight in thy commandments, which I have loved.
That I may lift up my hands unto thy commandments, which I have loved, and may meditate in thy statutes.
[ZAYIN.] Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.
This, is my comfort in mine affliction, that, thy word, hath given me life.
Insolent men, have derided me exceedingly, From thy law, have I not swerved.
I have remembered thy regulations, [which have come down] from age-past times, O Yahweh, and have consoled myself.
A raging heat, hath seized me, by reason of the lawless, who forsake thy law.
Songs, have thy statutes become to me, in my house of sojourn.
I have remembered, in the night, thy Name, O Yahweh, and have kept thy law.
This, have I had, because, thy precepts, have I observed.
[HETH.] My portion, is Yahweh, I have promised that I would keep thy words.
I have sought the smile of thy face with all my heart, Show me favour, according to thy word.
I have thought upon my ways, and have turned my feet unto thy testimonies.
I have hastened, and not delayed, to keep thy commandments.
The meshes of the lawless, have surrounded me, Thy law, have I not forgotten.
At midnight, I arise to give thanks unto thee, For thy righteous regulations.
Companion, am I, to all who revere thee, and to them who keep thy precepts.
Of thy lovingkindness, O Yahweh, the earth, is full, Thy statutes, teach thou me.
[TETH.] Well, hast thou dealt with thy servant, O Yahweh, according to thy word.
Good judgment and knowledge, teach thou me, For, in thy commandments, have I trusted.
Before I was afflicted, I myself was going astray, but, now, thy word, have I kept.
Good, thou art, and doing good, Teach me thy statutes.
Insolent men have plastered falsehood over me, I, with a whole heart, will observe thy precepts.
Gross, like fat, is their heart, I, in thy law, have found dear delight.
It is, well for me, that I was afflicted, That I might learn thy statutes.
Better to me, is the law of thy mouth, than thousands of gold and silver.
[YODH.] Thine own hands, have made me, and formed me. Give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.
They who revere thee, shall see me and rejoice, that, for thy word, I waited.
I know, O Yahweh, that righteous are thy regulations, and, in faithfulness, didst thou afflict me.
Let thy lovingkindness, I beseech thee, serve to comfort me, according to thy word to thy servant.
Let thy compassions reach me, that I may live, for, thy law, is my dear delight.
Let insolent men, be ashamed, because, by means of falsehood, they have dealt with me perversely, I, will meditate in thy precepts.
Let them who revere thee, turn unto me, even they who know thy testimonies.
Let my heart be thorough in thy statutes, that I may not be ashamed.
[KAPH.] My soul, hath languished for thy salvation, For thy word, have I hoped.
Mine eyes have failed for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?
Though I have been like a wine-skin in the smoke, thy statutes, have I not forgotten.
How few are the days of thy servant! When wilt thou execute sentence on my persecutors?
Insolent men digged for me pits, men who are not according to thy law.
All thy commandments, are faithful, With falsehood, have they persecuted me, O help me!
A little more, and they had consumed me in the earth, but, I, forsake not thy precepts.
According to thy lovingkindness, give thou me life, so will I keep the testimonies of thy mouth.
[LAMED.] Age-abidingly, O Yahweh, hath thy word been set up in the heavens.
To generation after generation, is thy faithfulness, Thou hast established the earth, and it standeth.
By thy regulations, do they stand to-day, for, all, are thy servants.
Had not thy law been my dear delight, then, had I perished in mine affliction.
Unto times age-abiding, will I not forget thy precepts, For, by them, hast thou given me life.
Thine, am I,—oh save me! For, thy precepts, have I sought.
For me, have the lawless waited, to destroy me, Thy testimonies, will I diligently consider.
To all perfection, have I seen an end, Broad is thy commandment, exceedingly.
[MEM.] Oh how I love thy law! All the day, is it my meditation.
Beyond mine enemies, will thy commandment make me wise, for, age-abidingly, shall it be mine.
Beyond all my teachers, have I shown discretion, for, thy testimonies, are my meditation.
Beyond the elders, will I show understanding, for, thy precepts, have I observed.
From every way of wickedness, have I withheld my feet, that I might keep thy word.
From thy regulations, have I not turned aside, for, thou, hast directed me.
How smooth to my palate is thy speech, More than honey, to my mouth.
Out of thy precepts, will I get understanding, For this cause, do I hate every false way.
[NUN.] A lamp to my feet, is thy word, and a light to my path.
I sware, and have fulfilled, To keep thy righteous regulations.
I have been afflicted exceedingly,—O Yahweh, give me life according to thy word.
The freewill offerings of my mouth, accept, I pray thee, O Yahweh, And, thy regulations, teach thou me.
My life, is in my hand continually, Yet, thy law, have I not forgotten.
The lawless have set a snare for me, Yet, from thy precepts, have I not strayed.
As an inheritance have I taken thy testimonies unto times age-abiding, for, the joy of my heart, they are.
I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes, Age-abidingly, to the end.
[SAMECH.] Half-hearted ones, do I hate, but, thy law, do I love.
My hiding-place and my buckler, thou art, For thy word, have I waited.
Depart from me, ye evil-doers,—that I may observe the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to thy word, that I may live, and do not shame me out of my hope!
Sustain me, that I may be saved, and may find dear delight in thy statutes continually.
Thou hast made light of all who stray from thy statutes, for their fraud is, falsehood.
Dross, have I accounted all the lawless of the earth, therefore do I love thy testimonies.
My flesh, bristled up from dread of thee, and, of thy regulations, stand I in fear.
[AYIN.] I have done justice and righteousness,—Do not leave me to mine oppressors.
Be thou surety for thy servant for good, Let not insolent men oppress me.
Mine eyes, have become dim for thy salvation, and for thy righteous word.
Deal with thy servant according to thy lovingkindness, and, thy statutes, teach thou me.
Thy servant, I am—give me understanding, so shall I get to know thy testimonies.
It is time that Yahweh should work, They have frustrated thy law!
For this cause, do I love thy commandments, More than gold, yea than fine gold!
For this cause, all thy precepts concerning all things, I deem right, Every way of falsehood, I hate.
[PE.] Wonderful are thy testimonies, For this cause, hath my soul observed them.
The opening of thy words, sheddeth light, Giving understanding to the simple.
My mouth, have I opened wide, and panted, because, for thy commandments, have I longed.
Turn thyself unto me, and show me favour,—As is befitting, to the lovers of thy Name.
My steps, direct thou by thy word, and let no iniquity, have dominion over me.
Set me free from the oppression of man, so will I keep thy precepts.
Thy face, light thou up on thy servant, and teach me thy statutes.
Streams of water, have run down mine eyes, because men have not kept thy law.
[ZADHE.] Righteous art thou, O Yahweh,—and, equitable, are thy regulations.
Thou hast righteously commanded thy testimonies, yea in great faithfulness.
My zeal, hath put an end to me, for mine adversaries have forgotten thy words.
Refined is thy word, to the uttermost, and, thy servant loveth it.
Small, am I, and despised, Thy precepts, have I not forgotten.
Thy righteousness, is righteous to times age-abiding, and, thy law, is truth.
Straitness and distress, have befallen me, Thy commandments, are my dear delights.
Righteous are thy testimonies, unto times age-abiding, Give me understanding, that I may live.
[KOPH.] I have cried out with all my heart, answer me, O Yahweh; Thy statutes, will I observe.
I have cried out unto thee, oh save me, That I may keep thy testimonies.
I forestalled the twilight, and cried for help, For thy word, I waited.
Mine eyes forestalled the night-watches, To meditate in thy word.
My voice, O hear, according to thy lovingkindness, O Yahweh! according to thy wont, give me life.
They have drawn near, who pursue villainy, From thy law, have they gone far away.
Near art thou, O Yahweh, and, all thy commandments, are truth.
Long, have I known, from thy testimonies, That, to times age-abiding, thou didst establish them.
[RESH.] Behold mine affliction, and rescue me, For, thy law, have I not forgotten.
Plead my cause, and redeem me, By thy word, give me life
Far from the lawless, is salvation, For, thy statutes, have they not sought.
Thy compassions, are great, O Yahweh, According to thy regulations, give me life.
Many, are my persecutors and mine adversaries, From thy testimonies, have I not swerved.
I have seen traitors, and felt loathing, Because, thy word, they kept not.
See thou that, thy precepts, I have loved, O Yahweh, according to thy lovingkindness, give me life.
The sum of thy word, is truth, and, age-abiding, is every one of thy righteous regulations.
[SHIN.] Rulers, have persecuted me, without cause, But, of thy word, hath my heart stood in awe.
Joyful am I over thy word, Like the finder of spoil in abundance.
Falsehood, I hate and abhor, Thy law, do I love.
Seven times in the day, have I praised thee, For thy righteous regulations.
Blessing in abundance, have the lovers of thy law, and nothing to make them stumble.
I have looked for thy salvation, O Yahweh, and, thy commandments, have I done.
My soul hath kept thy testimonies, yea I have loved them greatly.
I have kept thy precepts, and thy testimonies, For, all my ways, are before thee.
[TAU] Let my shouting come near before thee, O Yahweh, According to thy word, give me understanding.
Let my supplication come in before thee, According to thy word, deliver me.
My lips, shall pour out, praise, When thou shalt teach me thy statutes.
My tongue, shall respond, with thy word, For, all thy commandments, are righteous.
Be thy hand ready to help me, For, thy statutes, have I chosen.
I have longed for thy salvation, O Yahweh, and, thy law, is my dear delight.
Let my soul live, that it may praise thee, So shall thy regulation help me.
I have strayed like a wandering sheep, O seek thy servant, For, thy commandments, have I not forgotten.