And it came to pass the same year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, that Hananiah the son of Azzur, the prophet, who was of Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of Jehovah, in the presence of the priests and of all the people, saying,
Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Within two full years I will bring again into this place all the vessels of Jehovah's house that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place, and carried to Babylon.
And I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, with all the captives of Judah, who went to Babylon, says Jehovah, for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Then the prophet Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people who stood in the house of Jehovah,
even the prophet Jeremiah said, Truly! Jehovah do so. Jehovah perform thy words which thou have prophesied, to bring again the vessels of Jehovah's house, and all those of the captivity, from Babylon to this place.
Nevertheless hear thou now this word that I speak in thine ears, and in the ears of all the people:
The prophets who have been before me and before thee of old prophesied against many countries, and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence.
The prophet who prophesies of peace, when the word of the prophet shall come to pass, then the prophet shall be known that Jehovah has truly sent him.
Then Hananiah the prophet took the bar from off the prophet Jeremiah's neck, and broke it.
And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus says Jehovah: Even so I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon within two full years from off the neck of all the nations. And the prophet Jeremiah went his way.
Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah after Hananiah the prophet had broken the bar from off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, saying,
Go, and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus says Jehovah: Thou have broken the bars of wood, but I have made in their stead bars of iron.
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron upon the neck of all these nations, that they may served Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and they shall serve him. And I have given him the beasts of the field also.
Then the prophet Jeremiah said to Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah. Jehovah has not sent thee, but thou make this people to trust in a lie.
Therefore thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will send thee away from off the face of the earth. This year thou shall die because thou have spoken rebellion against Jehovah.
So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month.