THEN seeing the multitudes, he went up into the mountain: and seating himself, his disciples came to him:
and opening his mouth, he taught them, saying,
Blessed are the poor in spirit, for their’s is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be fed to the full.
Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.
Blessed are they who are persecuted for righteousness sake: for their’s is the kingdom in heaven.
Blessed are ye, when they shall revile and persecute you, and lying, speak every thing evil against you for my sake.
Rejoice and exult; for plenteous is your reward in the heavens: for just so they persecuted the prophets who went before you.
Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt become insipid, with what can it be salted? it is of no farther use for any purpose, but to be cast out, and trodden under foot of men.
Ye are the light of the world. A city cannot be hid that is situated on an eminence.
Neither do men burn a lamp, and set it under a bushel, but on its stand; and it sheds light on all that are in the house.
Just so let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in the heavens.
Think not that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets: I came not to destroy, but to fulfil.
For I tell you assuredly, that till heaven and earth pass away, not one iota, or the smallest stroke of a letter, shall pass from the law, until all things shall be accomplished.
Whosoever therefore shall break one of the least of these commandments, and teach men so, he shall be accounted the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall practise, and teach them, he shall be reckoned great in the kingdom of heaven.
For I say unto you, That except your righteousness abounds more than that of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven.
Ye have heard that it was said to the men of antient times, “Thou shalt do no murder;” and whosoever shall commit murder, shall be liable to the judgment:
but I say unto you, That every man who is angry with his brother without cause, shall be liable to the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be liable to the sanhedrim: but whosever shall say, Thou fool, shall be liable to be cast into hell fire.
If therefore thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee;
leave there thy gift before the altar, and go: first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.
Be disposed to agree with thy prosecutor speedily, whilst thou art in the way with him to the bar; lest the prosecutor deliver thee up to the judge, and the judge commit thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.
Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt in no wise come out from thence, till thou hast paid the last farthing.
Ye have heard that it was said to those of old, “Thou shalt not commit adultery:”
but I say unto you, That every one who looketh upon a woman to lust after her, hath already committed adultery with her in his heart.
If then thine eye, the right, leads thee to offend, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is highly for thy advantage, that one of thy members be destroyed, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
And if thy right hand leads thee to offend, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is highly thy interest that one of thy members should be destroyed, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
It hath been said indeed, That whosoever will put away his wife, let him give her a bill of divorce:
But I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except on account of whoredom, causeth her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is put away, committeth adultery.
Again ye have heard that it was said to those of old, “Thou shalt not perjure thyself, but shalt perform to the Lord thine oaths:”
But I say to thee, Swear not at all; neither by the heaven; for it is the throne of God:
nor by the earth; for it is the footstool of his feet: nor by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King:
neither shalt thou swear by thy head, for thou canst not make one hair white or black.
But let your discourse be, Yea, yea; No, no: for all addition to these is from the wicked one.
Ye have heard that it was said, “Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth:”
but I say unto you, Resist not an injurious act; but whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him also the other.
And if a man will prosecute thee, and take thy coat, let him have thy cloak also.
And whosoever shall press thee for one mile, go with him two.
Give to him that asketh thee; and from him who wants to borrow of thee, turn not away.
Ye have heard that it hath been said, “Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.”
But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who treat you insolently, and persecute you;
that ye may be the children of your Father who is in heaven: for he causeth his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and tendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.
For if ye love those who love you, what reward have you? do not even the publicans the same thing?
And if ye embrace your brethren only, what do ye extraordinary? do not even the publicans so?
Be ye therefore perfect, as your Father who is in heaven is perfect.