And he also said to his disciples, There was a certain rich man who had a manager, and this man was accused to him as squandering things possessed by him.
And having called him, he said to him, What is this I hear about thee? Render the account of thy management, for thou can no longer manage.
And the manager said within himself, What shall I do because my lord takes away the management from me? I am not able to dig. I am ashamed to beg.
I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from the management they may receive me into their houses.
And having summoned each one of his lord's debtors, he said to the first, How much do thou owe to my lord?
And he said, A hundred measures of olive oil. And he said to him, Receive thy document, and having sat down, quickly write fifty.
Next he said to another, And how much do thou owe? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. And he says to him, Receive thy document, and write eighty.
And his lord commended the unrighteous manager because he did shrewdly. Because the sons of this age are shrewder in their own generation than the sons of the light.
And I say to you, make friends for yourselves from the mammon of unrighteousness, so that, when ye cease, they may receive you into the eternal dwellings.
The man faithful in the least is faithful also in much, and the man unrighteous in the least is unrighteous also in much.
If therefore ye did not become faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust to you what is true?
And if ye did not become faithful in the alien, who will give thine to you?
No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
And the Pharisees, being lovers of money, heard all these things, and they sneered him.
And he said to them, Ye are those who declare yourselves righteous in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts. Because what is lofty among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
The law and the prophets were until John. From that time the kingdom of God is proclaimed good news, and every man in it is treated aggressively.
But it is easier for the heaven and the earth to pass away, than for one tittle of the law to fall.
Every man who divorces his wife and marries another, commits adultery, and every man who marries her who has been divorced from a husband commits adultery.
Now there was a certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, faring sumptuously daily.
But there was a certain poor man named Lazarus, who had been placed near his gate, covered with sores,
and longing to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table. But even the dogs that came licked his sores.
And it came to pass for the poor man to die and be carried by the agents to Abraham's bosom. And the rich man also died and was buried.
And having lifted up his eyes in Hades, being in torments, he sees Abraham from afar and Lazarus by his bosom.
And having cried out, he said, Father Abraham, be merciful to me, and send Lazarus, so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue, because I am in agony in this flame.
But Abraham said, Child, remember that thou in thy lifetime received thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things. But now here he is comforted and thou are in agony.
And besides all these things, between us and you a great chasm is fixed, so that those here who want to cross over to you are not able, nor may those go across from there to us.
And he said, I beg thee therefore, father, that thou would send him to my father's house,
for I have five brothers, that he may testify to them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
But Abraham says to him, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them.
And he said, No, father Abraham, but if some man would go to them from the dead they will repent.
And he said to him, If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if some man would rise from the dead.