Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given orders to the churches of Galatia, do ye likewise.
Each first sabbath let each one of you set aside in store, as [God] has prospered him, that there be no collections when I come.
And when I come, whomever ye shall approve by [your] letters, them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem.
And if it is appropriate that I go also, they shall go with me.
Now I will come unto you, when I have passed through Macedonia, for I must pass through Macedonia.
And it may be that I will abide and winter with you, that ye may bring me on my journey wherever I go.
For I desire not to see you now in passing, but I trust to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permits.
But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.
For a great and effectual door is opened unto me, and [there are] many adversaries.
Now if Timothy comes, see that he may stay with you securely, for he does the work of the Lord, as I also [do].
Let no man therefore, despise, him, but conduct him forth in peace that he may come unto me, for I look for him with the brothers.
As touching [our] brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come unto you with [some of] the brothers, but his will was not at all to come at this time, but he will come when he shall have opportunity.
Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, be brave, be strong.
Let all your things be done with charity.
I beseech you, brethren (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia and [that] they have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints),
that ye submit yourselves unto such and to each one that helps and labours.
I am glad of the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, for they have filled your absence.
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours; therefore, acknowledge ye those that are such.
The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.
All the brothers greet you. Greet ye one another with a holy kiss.
The salutation of [me], Paul, [is] with my own hand.
If any man does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. Our Lord has come.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [be] with you.
My charity in Christ Jesus be with you all. Amen.: