Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, through the will of God, and Timothy the brother, to the church of God being in Corinth, with all the saints being in all Achaia,
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassions and God of all comfort,
the One comforting us on all our affliction, for us to be able to comfort those in every affliction, through the comfort by which we ourselves are comforted by God.
Because the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so also our comfort abounds through Christ.
But if we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation, being worked out in the endurance of the same sufferings which we also suffer. If we are comforted, it is for your comfort and salvation;
and our hope for you is certain, knowing that even as you are sharers of the sufferings, so also of the comfort.
For, brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant as to our affliction having happened to us in Asia, that we were excessively pressed down beyond our power, so as for us even to despair of living.
But we ourselves have the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust on ourselves, but on God, the One raising the dead,
who delivered us from so great a death, and does deliver; in whom we have hope that He will still deliver us ,
you also laboring together for us in prayer, that the gracious gift by many persons be the cause of thanksgiving through many for us.
For our glorying is this, the testimony of our conscience, that we had our conduct in the world in simplicity and sincerity of God, not in fleshly wisdom, but in the grace of God, and more abundantly toward you.
For we do not write other things to you than what you read or even recognize; and I hope that you will recognize even to the end,
even as you also in part recognized us, that we are your glorying, even as also you are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus.
And in this confidence, I purposed to come to you before now, that you might have a second benefit,
and to go through you into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come to you and to be set forward by you to Judea.
Then purposing this, did I indeed use lightness? Or what I purposed, did I purpose according to flesh, that may be with me yes, yes, and no, no?
But God is faithful, that our word to you did not become yes and no.
For Jesus Christ the Son of God, the One proclaimed among you by us, through me and Silvanus and Timothy, was not yes and no, but has been yes in Him.
For as many promises as are of God, in Him they are yes, and in Him are Amen, for glory to God through us.
But He confirming us and anointing us with you in Christ is God,
even He having sealed us, and having given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
And I call God as witness to my soul that to spare you I came no more to Corinth.
Not that we rule over your faith, but we are fellow-workers of your joy. For by faith you stand.