And having seen the multitudes, he went up onto the mountain. And when he sat down, his disciples came to him.
And having opened his mouth, he taught them, saying,
Blessed are the poor in spirit, because the kingdom of the heavens is theirs.
Blessed are those who mourn, because they will be comforted.
Blessed are the meek, because they will inherit the earth.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, because they will be filled.
Blessed are the merciful, because they will obtain mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart, because they will see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers, because they will be called sons of God.
Blessed are those who have been persecuted because of righteousness, because the kingdom of the heavens is theirs.
Blessed are ye when they revile you, and persecute you, and say every evil word, being deceitful against you because of me.
Rejoice, and be exceedingly glad, because your reward is great in the heavens, for so they persecuted the prophets before you.
Ye are the salt material of the earth. But if the salt material becomes ineffective, by what will it be salted? It is potent for nothing further, except to be cast outside and to be trodden down by men.
Ye are the light of the world. A city setting on a hill cannot be hid,
nor do they light a lamp, and put it under the bushel, but on the lampstand, and it shines to all in the house.
Thus your light should shine before men, so that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father in the heavens.
Think not that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I came not to abolish, but to fulfill.
For truly I say to you, until the heaven and the earth pass away, one iota or one tittle will, no, not pass away from the law, until all things come to pass.
Whoever therefore may relax one of these least commandments, and may teach men so, he will be called least in the kingdom of the heavens. But whoever may do and may teach them, this man will be called great in the kingdom of the heavens.
For I say to you, that unless your righteousness abounds more than of the scholars and Pharisees, ye will, no, not enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Ye have heard that it was said to them in old times, Thou shall not murder, and whoever murders will be liable to the judgment.
But I say to you, that every man who is angry at his brother without cause will be liable to the judgment, and whoever speaks an insult to his brother will be liable to the council, and whoever says, Foolish man, will be liable to the hell of fire.
If therefore thou should bring thy gift to the altar, and remember there that thy brother has anything against thee,
leave there thy gift before the altar, and go. First be reconciled to thy brother, and then, after coming, bring thy gift.
Be agreeing with thine opponent quickly, while thou are with him on the way, lest the opponent deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the subordinate, and thou will be cast into prison.
Truly I say to thee, thou will, no, not come out from there, until thou have paid the last quadran.
Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shall not commit adultery.
But I say to you, that every man who looks on a woman to crave her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
And if thy right eye causes thee to stumble, remove it and cast it from thee, for it is advantageous for thee that one of thy body-parts should perish, and not thy whole body be cast into hell.
And if thy right hand causes thee to stumble, cut it off and cast it from thee, for it is advantageous for thee that one of thy body-parts should perish, and not thy whole body be cast into hell.
And it was said, Whoever may divorce his wife, let him give her a divorce certificate.
But I say to you, that whoever may divorce his wife apart from a matter of fornication, disposes her to commit adultery, and whoever may marry her who has been divorced commits adultery.
Again, ye have heard that it was said to them in old times, Thou shall not swear falsely, but shall render to the Lord thine oaths.
But I say to you, not to swear at all, neither by heaven, because it is the throne of God,
nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of his feet, nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King.
Neither shall thou swear by thy head, because thou cannot make one hair white or black.
But let your word be, Yes, yes, No, no. And anything beyond these is from evil.
Ye have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
But I say to you, not to resist what is troublesome, but whoever will strike thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.
And to the man who wants to sue thee, and take away thy coat, thou shall leave him thy cloak also.
And whoever will draft thee for one mile, go thou with him two.
Give to him who asks thee, and turn thou not away from him who wants to borrow from thee.
Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shall love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy.
But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who mistreat you and persecute you,
so that ye may become sons of your Father in the heavens, because he makes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and makes rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.
For if ye love those who love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the tax collectors the same?
And if ye only greet your friends, what do ye extra? Do not even the tax collectors this way?
Ye therefore shall be perfect, even as your Father in the heavens is perfect.