And, from thence, arising, he cometh into the bounds of Judaea and beyond the Jordan,—and there come together again, multitudes unto him, and, as he had been wont, again, was he teaching them.
And Pharisees coming near were questioning him—whether it is allowed a husband to divorce a wife, testing him.
But, he, answering, said unto them—What unto you did, Moses, command?
And, they, said—Moses permitted, to write, a roll of dismissal, and to divorce.
But, Jesus, said unto them—In view of your hardness of heart, wrote he for you this commandment;
But, from the beginning of creation, male and female, made he [them];
For this cause, shall a man leave behind his father and mother,
and, the two, shall become, one flesh; so that, no longer, are they two, but, one flesh.
What then, God, hath yoked together, let, a man, not put asunder.
And, [coming] into the house again, the disciples, concerning this, were questioning him;
and he saith unto them—Whosoever shall divorce his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her;
And, if, she, divorcing her husband, marry another, she committeth adultery.
And they were bringing unto him children, that he might, touch, them,—the disciples, however, were rebuking them.
But Jesus, seeing it, was greatly displeased, and said unto them—Suffer the children to come unto me,—do not hinder them; for, of such, is the kingdom of God.
Verily, I say unto you—Whosoever shall not welcome the kingdom of God, as a child, in nowise shall enter thereinto.
And, folding them in his arms, he was blessing them, having laid his hands upon them.
And, as he was going forth into a road, one, running, and kneeling before him, was questioning him—Good Teacher! what shall I do that, life age—abiding, I may inherit?
And, Jesus, said unto him—Why callest thou me, good? None, is good, save one—God.
The commandments, thou knowest,—Do not commit murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal; Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honour thy father and mother.
And, he, said unto him—Teacher! all these things, have I kept, from my youth.
And, Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said unto him—One thing, unto thee, is wanting;—Withdraw! whatsoever thou hast, sell, and give unto [the] destitute,—and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come! be following me.
And, he, becoming gloomy because of the word, departed sorrowing, for he was holding, many possessions.
And, looking around, Jesus saith unto his disciples—With what difficulty, shall, they who have money, enter, into the kingdom of God!
And, the disciples, were in amazement, because of the words. But, Jesus, again answering, saith unto them—Children! how difficult, it is, to enter, into the kingdom of God!
It is, easier, for a camel, through the eye of a needle, to pass, than for, a rich man, into the kingdom of God, to enter.
And, they, were being exceedingly struck with astonishment, saying unto him—Who, then, can, be saved?
Looking at them, Jesus saith—With men, impossible, but not, with God; for, all things, are possible, with God
Peter began to be saying unto him—Lo! we, have left all, and followed thee!
Jesus said—Verily, I say unto you—There is, no one, who hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children, or lands, for the sake of me, and [for the sake of] the glad-message,
who shall not receive a hundredfold, now, in this season, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands,—with persecutions, and, in the age that is coming, life age-abiding.
But, many, shall be—first-last, and [the] Last-first.
Now they were in the way, going up unto Jerusalem, and Jesus was going on before them,—and they were in amazement; and, they who followed, were in fear. And, taking unto himself, again, the twelve, he began to be saying unto them, as to the things about to befall him—
Lo! we are going up unto Jerusalem; and, the Son of Man, will be delivered up, unto the Chief-priests and the Scribes,—and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him up unto the nations;
And they will mock him, and spit upon him, and scourge him, and, slay;—and, after three days, will he, arise.
And there come near unto him, James and John, the [two] sons of Zebedee,—saying unto him—Teacher! we desire, that, whatsoever we shall ask thee, thou wilt do for us.
But, he, said unto them—What desire ye, I should do for you?
And, they, said unto him—Grant us, that, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left, we may sit, in thy glory.
But, Jesus, said unto them—Ye know not what ye are asking: Are ye able to drink the cup that, I, am to drink? or to be immersed, with the immersion wherewith, I, am to be immersed?
And, they, said unto him—We are able. And, Jesus, said unto them—The cup which, I, am to drink, ye shall drink, and, with the immersion wherewith, I, am to be immersed, shall ye be immersed;
But, to sit on my right hand and on my left, is not mine to give, except unto them for whom it hath been prepared.
And the ten, hearing, began to be sorely displeased, concerning James and John.
And Jesus, calling them near, saith unto them—Ye know that, they who think to rule the nations, lord it over them, and, their great ones, wield authority over them;
But, not so, it is, among you. But, whosoever desireth to become, great, among you, shall be, your minister,
And, whosoever desireth, among you, to be, first, shall be, servant of all;
For, even the Son of Man, came not to be ministered unto, but minister,—and to give his life, a ransom instead of many.
And they come into Jericho. And, as he was journeying forth from Jericho, and his disciples, and a considerable multitude, the son of Timaeus, blind Bar-Timaeus, a beggar, was sitting beside the road.
And, hearing that it was, Jesus the Nazarene, he began to be crying aloud, and saying—O Son of David! Jesus! have mercy on me.
And many were rebuking him, that he might hold his peace; but, he, so much the more, was crying aloud, O Son of David, have mercy on me.
And, coming to a stand, Jesus said—Call him! And they call the blind man, saying unto him—Take courage! rise! he calleth thee!
And, he, throwing off his mantle—springing to his feet, came unto Jesus.
And, answering him, Jesus said—What desirest thou, I should do for thee? And, the blind man, said unto him—Rabboni! that may recover sight.
And, Jesus, said unto him—Go thy way! thy faith, hath saved thee. And, straightway, he recovered sight, and was following him in the road.