To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid the seruant of the Lord, which spake unto the Lord the wordes of this song (in the day that the Lord delivered him for the hande of all this enemies, and form the and of saul) and sayd, I will loue thee dearely, O Lord my strength.
The Lord is my rocke, and my fortresse, and he that deliuereth me, my God and my strength: in him will I trust, my shield, the horne also of my saluation, and my refuge.
I will call vpon the Lord, which is worthie to be praysed: so shall I be safe from mine enemies.
The sorowes of death compassed me, and the floods of wickednes made me afraide.
The sorowes of the graue haue compassed me about: the snares of death ouertooke me.
But in my trouble did I call vpon the Lord, and cryed vnto my God: he heard my voyce out of his Temple, and my crye did come before him, euen into his eares.
Then the earth trembled, and quaked: the foundations also of the mountaines mooued and shooke, because he was angrie.
Smoke went out at his nostrels, and a consuming fire out of his mouth: coales were kindled thereat.
He bowed the heauens also and came downe, and darkenes was vnder his feete.
And he rode vpon Cherub and did flie, and he came flying vpon the wings of the winde.
He made darkenes his secrete place, and his pauilion round about him, euen darkenesse of waters, and cloudes of the ayre.
At the brightnes of his presence his clouds passed, haylestones and coles of fire.
The Lord also thundred in the heauen, and the Highest gaue his voyce, haylestones and coales of fire.
Then hee sent out his arrowes and scattred them, and he increased lightnings and destroyed them.
And the chanels of waters were seene, and the foundations of the worlde were discouered at thy rebuking, O Lord, at the blasting of the breath of thy nostrels.
He hath sent downe from aboue and taken mee: hee hath drawen mee out of many waters.
He hath deliuered mee from my strong enemie, and from them which hate me: for they were too strong for me.
They preuented me in the day of my calamitie: but the Lord was my stay.
Hee brought mee foorth also into a large place: hee deliuered mee because hee fauoured me.
The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousnes: according to the purenes of mine hands he recompensed me:
Because I kept the wayes of the Lord, and did not wickedly against my God.
For all his Lawes were before mee, and I did not cast away his commandements from mee.
I was vpright also with him, and haue kept me from my wickednes.
Therefore the Lord rewarded me according to my righteousnesse, and according to the purenes of mine hands in his sight.
With the godly thou wilt shewe thy selfe godly: with the vpright man thou wilt shew thy selfe vpright.
With the pure thou wilt shewe thy selfe pure, and with the froward thou wilt shewe thy selfe froward.
Thus thou wilt saue the poore people, and wilt cast downe the proude lookes.
Surely thou wilt light my candle: the Lord my God wil lighten my darkenes.
For by thee I haue broken through an hoste, and by my God I haue leaped ouer a wall.
The way of God is vncorrupt: the worde of the Lord is tried in the fire: he is a shield to all that trust in him.
For who is God besides the Lord? and who is mightie saue our God?
God girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way vpright.
He maketh my feete like hindes feete, and setteth me vpon mine high places.
He teacheth mine hands to fight: so that a bowe of brasse is broken with mine armes.
Thou hast also giuen me the shield of thy saluation, and thy right hand hath stayed me, and thy louing kindenes hath caused me to increase.
Thou hast enlarged my steps vnder mee, and mine heeles haue not slid.
I haue pursued mine enemies, and taken them, and haue not turned againe till I had consumed them.
I haue wounded them, that they were not able to rise: they are fallen vnder my feete.
For thou hast girded me with strength to battell: them, that rose against me, thou hast subdued vnder me.
And thou hast giuen me the neckes of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate me.
They cryed but there was none to saue them, euen vnto the Lord, but hee answered them not.
Then I did beate them small as the dust before the winde: I did treade them flat as the clay in the streetes.
Thou hast deliuered me from the contentions of the people: thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people, whom I haue not knowen, shall serue me.
As soone as they heare, they shall obey me: the strangers shall be in subiection to me.
Strangers shall shrinke away, and feare in their priuie chambers.
Let the Lord liue, and blessed be my strength, and the God of my saluation be exalted.
It is God that giueth me power to auenge me, and subdueth the people vnder me.
O my deliuerer from mine enemies, euen thou hast set mee vp from them, that rose against me: thou hast deliuered mee from the cruell man.
Therefore I will prayse thee, O Lord, among the nations, and wil sing vnto thy Name.
Great deliuerances giueth hee vnto his King, and sheweth mercie to his anoynted, euen to Dauid, and to his seede for euer.