Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking smell: so does a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor.
A wise man’s heart is at his right hand; but a fool’s heart at his left.
Yes also, when he that is a fool walks by the way, his wisdom fails him, and he says to every one that he is a fool.
If the spirit of the ruler rise up against you, leave not your place; for yielding pacifies great offenses.
There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceeds from the ruler:
Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low place.
I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking as servants on the earth.
He that digs a pit shall fall into it; and whoever breaks an hedge, a serpent shall bite him.
Whoever removes stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that splits wood shall be endangered thereby.
If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.
Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler is no better.
The words of a wise man’s mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.
The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.
A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be; and what shall be after him, who can tell him?
The labor of the foolish wearies every one of them, because he knows not how to go to the city.   ¶
Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes eat in the morning!
Blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobles, and your princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!   ¶
By much slothfulness the building decays; and through idleness of the hands the house drops through.   ¶
A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes merry: but money answers all things.   ¶
Curse not the king, no not in your thought; and curse not the rich in your bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which has wings shall tell the matter.