Have they appointed you as a leader? Do not be willing to be extolled. Be among them as one of them.
Have concern for them, and in this way sit down with them, and when you have explained all your concerns, sit back.
Then you may rejoice because of them, and you may receive a crown as an adornment of grace, and so obtain the dignity of the assembly.
Speak, you who are greater by birth. For it is fitting for you
to speak the first word with careful knowledge. But you should not hinder the music.
Where no one is listening, you should not pour out words. And do not choose to be extolled improperly for your wisdom.
A gemstone of garnet is set amid an ornament of gold, and a concert of music is set amid a banquet of wine.
Just as a signet of emerald is set amid a work of gold, so is a melody of music set amid delightful and moderate wine.
Listen silently, and for your reverence, good graces will be added to you.
Young man, speak in your own case only reluctantly.
If you have been asked twice, let your response be concise.
In many matters, be as if you lack knowledge, and listen silently as well as intently.
In the midst of great men, you should not be presumptuous. And where the elders are present, you should not speak much.
Lightning goes before a hailstorm, and grace goes before modesty. And so, for your reverence, good graces will be added to you.
And at the hour for rising, you should not be lax. Later, be the first to run ahead to your house, and there withdraw, and there take your pastime.
And act according to your intentions, but not in sin and not in arrogant speech.
And for all these things, bless the Lord, who made you, and who fills you to overflowing with all his good things.
Whoever fears the Lord will accept his doctrine. And whoever watches for him diligently will find a blessing.
Whoever seeks the law will be filled from the law. But whoever acts with treachery will be scandalized by treachery.
Those who fear the Lord will find just judgment, and they will kindle justice like a light.
A sinful man will shun correction, and he will find a rationalization in accord with his own will.
A man of counsel will not reject understanding. A strange and arrogant man will not be disturbed by fear.
Even so, after he has acted out of fear and without counsel, he will be rebuked by his own criticism.
Son, you should do nothing without counsel, and then you will not regret what you have done.
You should not go into the way of ruin, and you then will not stumble on stones. You should not commit yourself to a laborious way; otherwise, you may set up a scandal against your own soul.
And be cautious concerning your own sons. And be attentive to those of your own household.
In all of your works, trust your soul to faith. For this is the keeping of the commandments.
Whoever believes God attends to the commandments. And whoever trusts in him will not be diminished.