Hear these words, which Jehovah speaketh against you, ye sons of Israel; Against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt!
You only have I known of all the families of the earth; Therefore will I punish you for all your iniquities.
Can two walk together, Unless they agree together?
Will the lion roar in the forest, When he seeth no prey? Will the young lion cry aloud from his den, If he have seized nothing?
Can a bird fall into a snare upon the earth, Where none is set for him? Will a snare spring up from the ground, When it hath caught nothing?
Shall a trumpet be blown in the city, And the people not be afraid? Shall there be evil upon a city, And Jehovah not have done it?
Surely the Lord Jehovah doeth nothing, But he revealeth his secret To his servants the prophets.
When the lion roareth, who will not fear? When the Lord Jehovah speaketh, who will not prophesy?
Proclaim ye, in the palaces in Ashdod, And in the palaces in the land of Egypt, And say, Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria; Behold the great tumults in the midst of her, And the oppressions within her!
For they have no care to do right, saith Jehovah; They treasure up rapine and robbery in their palaces.
Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: An enemy shall encompass the land. And shall bring down thy strength from thee, And thy palaces shall be plundered.
Thus saith Jehovah: As the shepherd taketh out of the lion’s mouth Two legs, or a portion of an ear, So shall the children of Israel be taken out, Who in Samaria sit in the corners of their sofas, And upon their damask couches.
Hear ye, and testify to the house of Jacob, Saith the Lord, Jehovah, God of hosts!
In the day when I punish the transgressions of Israel, Then will I punish the altars of Bethel; The horns of the altar shall be cut off, And fall to the ground.
and I will smite the winter-house together with the summer-house, And the houses of ivory shall be destroyed, And the great houses shall be brought to the ground, saith Jehovah.