AND it came to pass when Jesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judea beyond Jordan.
And great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.
And the Pharisees came to him, tempting him, and saying, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?
But he replying, said unto them, Have ye not read, that he who created them from the beginning, created them male and female?
And he said, for this reason shall a man forsake father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
Wherefore they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God hath yoked together, let no man separate.
They say unto him, Why then did Moses command to give her a bill of divorce, and to put her away?
He saith unto them, It was on account of the hardness of your hearts that Moses gave you permission to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not thus.
And I tell you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, except for whoredom, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and he that marrieth the divorced woman, committeth adultery.
His disciples said unto him, If the case of a man with his wife be thus, it is not expedient to marry.
Then he said to them, All men are not capable of receiving this saying, but they to whom it is given.
For there are eunuchs, who were so from their mothers’ womb; and there are eunuchs, who have been made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs, who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven. He that is capable of receiving, let him receive it.
Then were brought to him little children, that he should lay his hands upon them, and pray for them: but the disciples rebuked them.
Then said Jesus, Permit little children, and hinder them not from coming to me; for of such is the kingdom of heaven.
And when he had laid his hands upon them, he departed thence.
And lo! a person coming to him, said, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, in order to attain eternal life?
Then he said to him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, even God: but if thou art desirous of entering into life, keep the commandments.
He saith unto him, Which? Then said Jesus, these, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness,
Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
The young man saith to him, All these things have I observed from my youth: in what am I still deficient?
Jesus said to him, If thou art desirous to be perfect, go, sell all thy substance, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.
Now when the young man heard this speech, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions.
Then Jesus said to his disciples, Verily I say unto you, That very difficultly shall a rich man enter into the kingdom of heaven.
And again I repeat it to you, It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
But when his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?
And Jesus looking upon them, said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.
Then Peter addressing him, said unto him, Lo! we have left all and followed thee; what, I pray thee, shall we receive?
Then said Jesus unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit on the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And every one who hath left family, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name sake, shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit life eternal.
But many, now first, will be the last; and last, who will be the first.