FOLLOW earnestly after love, and zealously seek spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy.
For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue, speaketh not to men, but to God: for no man understandeth him; although in spirit he speaketh mysterious truths.
But he that prophesieth, addresseth men for edification, and exhortation, and consolation.
He that speaketh in an unknown tongue, edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth, edifieth the church.
Now I could wish that you all spake with tongues, but rather that ye should prophesy: for greater is he that prophesieth, than he that speaketh with tongues, except he interpret also, that the church may receive edification.
Now I, brethren, if I should come unto you, speaking in unknown languages, what should I profit you, unless I should speak to you intelligibly by revelation, or by science, or by prophecy, or by doctrine?
In like manner things inanimate, giving sound, whether the pipe, or the harp, unless they express a distinction in their tones, how shall it be known what is piped, or what is harped?
For if the trumpet also give an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for the battle?
So also ye, unless with the tongue you speak an intelligible discourse, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye will speak to the air.
For though there are so many different kinds of languages in the world, yet is not one of them without its meaning.
If therefore I know not the force of the expression, I shall be to him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh will be a barbarian unto me.
So also ye, if ye zealously affect spiritual gifts, seek that ye may abound in them for the edification of the church.
Therefore let him who speaketh in an unknown tongue, pray that he may interpret also.
For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my mind produces no fruit.
What then is my object? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also: I will sing psalms with the spirit, and I will sing psalms with the understanding also.
Else, though thou bless God in spirit, how shall he who filleth the place of an illiterate man, say Amen after thy thanksgiving, seeing he knoweth not what thou sayest?
For thou indeed givest thanks to God well, but another man is not edified by it.
I thank my God, that I speak with different tongues more than you all:
but in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that I may instruct others also, than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue.
Brethren, be not children in your minds: though in naughtiness be ye children, but in your minds be men complete.
In the law it is written, “That with other tongues, and with other lips, will I speak to this people: and even thus will they not attend to me, saith the Lord.”
Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to those that believe, but to those who do not believe: but the gift of prophecy is not for those who are infidels, but for believers.
If then the whole church assemble together in the same place, and all speak different tongues, and there come in illiterate persons, or infidels, will they not say ye are mad?
But if all prophesy, and any infidel or illiterate person come in, he receives conviction from all, he is judged of all:
and thus the secrets of his heart are made manifest; and so falling down on his face, he will worship God, declaring that God verily is among you.
How comes it then, brethren, that when ye assemble together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation? Let all things be done to edification.
If any man speak in an unknown tongue, let it be by two, or at most by three, and one after another; and let one interpret.
But if there be not an interpreter, let him be silent in the church; but let him speak to himself and to God.
Let the prophets two or three speak, and let the others judge.
But if any thing should be revealed to one sitting by, let the first be silent.
For ye may all prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all be comforted.
And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.
For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of his saints.
Let your women be silent in the churches: for it is not permitted to them to speak: but to be in subjection, as also the law saith.
But if they will learn any thing, let them ask their own husbands at home: for it is a shame for women to speak in the church.
Went the word of God from you? or came it unto you only?
If any man thinketh that he is a prophet, or spiritually gifted, let him acknowledge that the things which I write unto you are the commandments of the Lord.
But if any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant.
Wherefore, my brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues.
Let all things be done with propriety, and orderly.