Then David said, This is the house of the LORD God, and this is the altar of the burnt offering for Israel.
And David commanded the strangers in the land of Israel to be gathered. And he set masons to cut squared stones to build the house of God.
And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates, and for the couplings, and bronze in abundance without weight,
and also cedar trees without number, for the Sidonians and the Tyrians brought in cedar trees in abundance to David.
And David said, Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house to be built for the LORD is to be highly magnificent, for a name and for beauty to all the lands. I will now prepare for it. And David prepared abundantly before his death.
And he called for Solomon his son, and commanded him to build a house for the LORD God of Israel.
And David said to Solomon, My son, as for me, it was in my mind to build a house to the name of the LORD my God.
But the word of the LORD came to me, saying, You have shed much blood and have made great wars. You shall not build a house to My name because you have shed much blood on the earth in My sight.
Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of rest. And I will give him rest from all his enemies all around. For his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness to Israel in his days.
He shall build a house for My name. And he shall be My son, and I will be his Father. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever.
Now, my son, may the LORD be with you and bless you, and build the house of the LORD your God as He has said of you.
Only may the LORD give you wisdom and understanding, and direct you concerning Israel, so that you may keep the law of the LORD your God.
Then you shall prosper, if you take heed to fulfil the statutes and judgments with which the LORD charged Moses, concerning Israel. Be strong and of good courage. Do not fear, nor be dismayed.
And, behold, in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the LORD a hundred thousand talents of gold, and a million talents of silver, and of bronze and iron without weight, for it is in abundance. I have prepared timber also, and stone, and you may add to them.
And there are many workmen with you, cutters and workers of stone and timber, and all kinds of skillful men for every kind of work.
Of the gold, the silver, and the bronze, and the iron, there is no number. Arise and be doing, and may the LORD be with you.
And David commanded all the rulers of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying,
Is not the LORD your God with you? And has He not given you rest on every side? For He has given the people of the land into my hand. And the land is humbled before the LORD and before His people.
Now set your heart and your soul to seek the LORD your God. Arise therefore and build the sanctuary of the LORD God, to bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the holy vessels of God, into the house that is to be built to the name of the LORD.