The wicked flee when no man pursues: but the righteous are bold as a lion.
For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be prolonged.
A poor man that oppresses the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaves no food.
They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them.
Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the LORD understand all things.
Better is the poor that walks in his uprightness, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.
Whoever keeps the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion of riotous men shames his father.
He that by usury and unjust gain increases his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.
He that turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination.
Whoever causes the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good things in possession.
The rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that has understanding searches him out.
When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glory: but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden.
He that covers his sins shall not prosper: but whoever confesses and forsakes them shall have mercy.
Happy is the man that fears always: but he that hardens his heart shall fall into mischief.
As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked ruler over the poor people.
The prince that wants understanding is also a great oppressor: but he that hates covetousness shall prolong his days.
A man that does violence to the blood of any person shall flee to the pit; let no man stay him.
Whoever walks uprightly shall be saved: but he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
He that tills his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that follows after vain persons shall have poverty enough.
A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that makes haste to be rich shall not be innocent.
To have respect of persons is not good: for for a piece of bread that man will transgress.
He that hastens to be rich has an evil eye, and considers not that poverty shall come on him.
He that rebukes a man afterwards shall find more favor than he that flatters with the tongue.
Whoever robs his father or his mother, and says, It is no transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer.
He that is of a proud heart stirs up strife: but he that puts his trust in the LORD shall be made fat.
He that trusts in his own heart is a fool: but whoever walks wisely, he shall be delivered.
He that gives to the poor shall not lack: but he that hides his eyes shall have many a curse.
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase.