And he brought me out into the outer court, the way northward. And he brought me into the chamber that was across from the separate place and which was in front of the building to the north.
Before the length of a hundred cubits was the north door, and the width was fifty cubits.
Across from the twenty cubits which were for the inner court, and across from the pavement which was for the outer court, gallery was on gallery in three stories.
And before the chambers was a walk of ten cubits width inward, a way of one cubit. And their doors were northward.
And the upper chambers were shorter; for the galleries used up more space than the lower and middle ones in the building.
For they were in three stories, but there were no columns to them like the columns of the courts. So the third story was made narrower than the lower and the middle stories from the ground.
And the wall that was outside near the chambers, toward the outer court on the front of the chambers, its length was fifty cubits.
For the length of the chambers that were in the outer court was fifty cubits. And lo, in front of the temple was a hundred cubits.
And under these chambers was the entrance on the east side, as one goes into them from the outer court,
in the width of the wall of the court eastward, to the front of the separate area, and to the front of the building were chambers.
And the way in front of them looked like the chambers which were northward, as their length, so their width. And all their exits were as their patterns, and as their doors.
And as the doors of the chambers that were southward was a door in the head of the way, even the way directly in front of the wall eastward, as one enters them.
And he said to me, The north chambers and the south chambers which are in front of the separate place, they are holy chambers, where the priests shall eat, those who approach to the LORD shall eat the most holy things. There they shall lay the most holy things, and the food offering, and the sin offering, and the guilt offering. For the place is holy.
When the priests enter, then they shall not go out of the holy place into the outer court, but they shall lay their clothes there by which they minister in them, for they are holy. And they shall put on other clothes, and shall approach that which is for the people.
And he finished measuring the inner house; he brought me out the way of the gate whose view is eastward, and measured all around.
He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed, all around.
He measured the north side, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed all around.
He measured the south side, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
He turned to the west side, measuring five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
He measured it by the four sides. It had a wall all around, five hundred long, and five hundred wide, to make a separation between the holy place and the common place.