Then certain men who came down from Judaea taught the brethren [and said], Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved.
When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain other of them should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question.
And they, being accompanied by [some from] the church, passed through Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles, and they caused great joy unto all the brethren.
And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received by the church and [by] the apostles and elders, and they declared all the things that God had done with them.
But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed, saying, That it was needful to circumcise them and to command [them] to keep the law of Moses.
And the apostles and elders came together to consider of this matter.
And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up and said unto them, Men [and] brethren, ye know how that a good while ago God chose that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel and believe.
And God, who knows the hearts, bore them witness, giving them the Holy Spirit, even as [he did] unto us,
and put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Now therefore why tempt ye God, putting a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
For we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they.
Then all the multitude kept silence and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring what great miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them.
And after they had become silent, James answered, saying, Men [and] brethren, hearken unto me:
Simeon has declared how God first visited the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name.
And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,
After this I will return and will restore the tabernacle of David, which is fallen down; and I will repair its ruins, and I will set it up again,
that the men that are left might seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who does all these things.
Known unto God are all his works from the beginning of the world.
Therefore my sentence is that those from among the Gentiles who are converted to God not be troubled,
but that we write unto them that they abstain from pollutions of idols and [from] fornication and [from] things strangled and [from] blood.
For Moses of old time has in every city those that preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.
Then it pleased the apostles and elders, with the whole church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; [namely], Judas surnamed Barsabas and Silas, principal men among the brethren;
and they wrote [letters] by them after this manner: The apostles and elders and brethren [send] greeting unto the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia;
forasmuch as we have heard that certain [ones] who went out from us have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, [Ye must] be circumcised and keep the law, to whom we gave no [such] commandment,
it seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell [you] the same things by mouth.
For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things:
that ye abstain from foods offered to idols and from blood and from things strangled and from fornication; from which if ye keep yourselves, ye shall do well. Fare ye well.
So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch; and when they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle,
[which] when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.
And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted the brethren with many words and confirmed [them].
And after they had tarried [there] a space, they were let go in peace from the brethren unto the apostles.
Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still.
Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching the word of the Lord and announcing the gospel, with many others also.
And some days after, Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord [and see] how they do.
And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark.
But Paul thought [it] not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia and did not go with them to the work.
And the contention was so sharp between them that they departed asunder one from the other, and so Barnabas took Mark and sailed unto Cyprus;
and Paul chose Silas and departed, being recommended by the brethren unto the grace of God.
And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.: