And the LORD said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests, the sons of Aaron, and tell them to not be defiled for the dead among his people.
But for his kin, that is near unto him, [that is], for his mother and for his father and for his son and for his daughter and for his brother
and for his virgin sister, that is near unto him, who has had no husband; for her he may be defiled.
He shall not defile himself for the prince among his people, to profane himself.
They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their flesh.
They shall be holy unto their God and not profane the name of their God; for the offerings of the LORD made by fire [and] the bread of their God they do offer; therefore, they shall be holy.
They shall not take a wife [that is] a whore or profane; neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband; for he [is] holy unto his God.
Thou shalt sanctify him, therefore, for he offers the bread of thy God; he shall be holy unto thee; for I the LORD, who sanctify you, [am] holy.
And the daughter of the man [who is a] priest, if she begins to fornicate, she profanes her father; she shall be burnt with fire.
And [he that is] the high priest among his brethren, upon whose head the anointing oil was poured and that is consecrated to put on the garments, shall not uncover his head nor rend his clothes;
neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father or for his mother;
neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God, for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him. I [am] the LORD.
And he shall take a wife in her virginity.
A widow or a divorced woman or profane [or] a harlot, these he shall not take, but he shall take a virgin of his own people to wife.
Neither shall he profane his seed among his people, for I AM he that sanctifies him.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto Aaron, saying, The man of thy seed in their generations that has [any] blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God.
For no man in whom there is a blemish, shall approach: a blind man or a lame or he that lacks any thing or has any thing superfluous
or a man that is brokenfooted or brokenhanded
or crookbacked or a dwarf or that has a blemish in his eye or has scurvy or [is] scabbed or has his stones broken.
No man that has a blemish of the seed of Aaron, the priest, shall come near to offer the offerings of the LORD made by fire. He has a blemish; he shall not come near to offer the bread of his God.
He shall eat the bread of his God, [both] of the most holy and of the sanctified things.
Only he shall not go inside the veil nor come near unto the altar because he has a blemish, that he not profane my sanctuary; for I AM he that sanctifies them.
And Moses told [it] unto Aaron and to his sons and unto all the sons of Israel.: