A Psalme committed to Asaph. Yet God is good to Israel: euen, to the pure in heart.
As for me, my feete were almost gone: my steps had well neere slipt.
For I feared at the foolish, when I sawe the prosperitie of the wicked.
For there are no bandes in their death, but they are lustie and strong.
They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plagued with other men.
Therefore pride is as a chayne vnto them, and crueltie couereth them as a garment.
Their eyes stande out for fatnesse: they haue more then heart can wish.
They are licentious, and speake wickedly of their oppression: they talke presumptuously.
They set their mouth against heauen, and their tongue walketh through the earth.
Therefore his people turne hither: for waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.
And they say, Howe doeth God know it? or is there knowledge in the most High?
Lo, these are the wicked, yet prosper they alway, and increase in riches.
Certainely I haue clensed mine heart in vaine, and washed mine hands in innocencie.
For dayly haue I bene punished, and chastened euery morning.
If I say, I will iudge thus, beholde the generation of thy children: I haue trespassed.
Then thought I to know this, but it was too painefull for me,
Vntill I went into the Sanctuarie of God: then vnderstoode I their ende.
Surely thou hast set them in slipperie places, and castest them downe into desolation.
How suddenly are they destroyed, perished and horribly consumed,
As a dreame when one awaketh! O Lord, when thou raisest vs vp, thou shalt make their image despised.
Certainely mine heart was vexed, and I was pricked in my reines:
So foolish was I and ignorant: I was a beast before thee.
Yet I was alway with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand.
Thou wilt guide me by thy counsell, and afterward receiue me to glory.
Whom haue I in heauen but thee? and I haue desired none in the earth with thee.
My flesh fayleth and mine heart also: but God is the strength of mine heart, and my portion for euer.
For loe, they that withdrawe themselues from thee, shall perish: thou destroyest all them that goe a whoring from thee.
As for me, it is good for me to draw neere to God: therefore I haue put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy workes.