THE revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to him, to shew to his servants the things which must shortly come to pass; and sending by his angel, he shewed them to his servant John:
who was a witness for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ, and for the things which he saw.
Blessed is he that readeth, and they who hear the words of this prophecy, and observe the things which are written therein: for the time is at hand.
John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace be with you, and peace from him, who is, and who was, and who is coming; and from the seven spirits which are before the throne of God,
and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, and first-born from the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth: to him who loved us, and washed us from our sins by his blood,
and made us kings and priests to his God and Father; to him be glory and might for ever and ever. Amen.
Behold! he is coming with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also who pierced him; and all the tribes of the earth shall lament bitterly, smiting their bosoms, because of him: even so! Amen.
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, saith the Lord, who is, and who was, and who is coming―the Almighty.
I John, your brother and companion also with you in the tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the island which is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.
I was rapt in spirit on the Lord’s day, and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet,
saying, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last; and what thou seest write in a book, and send to the churches which are in Asia: to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamos, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.
And I turned to see what voice spake to me. And when I turned round I saw seven lamps of gold;
and in the midst of the seven lamps one like unto a son of man, clothed to the very feet, and girded about the breasts with a golden zone;
his head and flowing locks white as a white fleece of wool, even as the snow; and his eyes as a flame of fire;
and his feet resembled molten brass, as though they glowed in the furnace; and his voice was as the roar of many waters.
And he held in his right hand seven stars; and out of his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword; and his countenance was as when the sun shineth in his meridian lustre.
And when I beheld him, I fell at his feet as dead: and he laid his right hand upon me, saying to me, Fear not; I am the first and the last,
and I am the living one, though I was dead and lo! I am alive for evermore, Amen; and I hold the keys of hell and of death.
Write the things which thou seest, and the things which are, and the things which shall be in future after these,
the mystery of the seven stars which thou seest in my right hand, and the seven golden lamps. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lamps which thou seest are the seven churches.