Pursue love, and seek eagerly the spiritual things, but rather that you may prophesy.
For the one speaking in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God, for no one hears, but in spirit he speaks mysteries.
But the one prophesying to men speaks for building up, and encouragement, and comfort.
The one speaking in a tongue builds himself up, but he prophesying builds up a church.
And I wish all of you to speak in languages, but rather that you may prophesy. For the one prophesying is greater than the one speaking in tongues, unless he interpret that the church may receive building up.
But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you, except I speak to you either in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in teaching?
Yet lifeless things giving a sound, whether flute or harp, if they do not give a distinction in the sound, how will it be known what is being piped or harped?
For also if a trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who will get himself ready for war?
So also you, if you do not give a clear word through the language, how will it be known what is being said? For you will be speaking into air.
So it may be many kinds of sounds are in the world, and not one is without distinct sound.
If, then, I do not know the power of the sound, I will be a foreigner to the one speaking, and he speaking in me a foreigner.
So also you, since you are zealots of spiritual things, seek to build up the church that you may abound.
So then, the one speaking in a language, let him pray that he may interpret.
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful.
What then is it? I will pray with the spirit, and I will also pray with the mind; I will sing with the spirit, and I will also sing with the mind.
Else, if you bless in the spirit, the one occupying the place of the unlearned, how will he say the amen at your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you say?
For you truly give thanks well, but the other is not built up.
I thank my God that I speak more languages than all of you.
But in a church I desire to speak five words with my mind, that I may also instruct others, than myriads of words in a foreign language.
Brothers, do not be children in your minds, but in malice be like infants, and in your minds be mature.
It has been written in the Law, "By other tongues" and "by other lips" "I will speak to this people," "and even so they will not hear" Me, says the Lord." Isa. 28:11, 12
So that tongues are not a sign to those believing, but to those not believing. But prophecy is not to those not believing, but to those believing.
Then if the whole church comes together, and all speak in languages, and uninstructed ones or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you rave?
But if all prophesy, and some unbeliever or one not instructed comes in, he is convicted by all, he is judged by all.
And so the secrets of his heart become revealed; and so, falling on his face, he will worship God, declaring that God is truly among you.
Then what is it, brothers? When you come together, each one of you has a psalm, he has a teaching, he has a language, he has a revelation, he has an interpretation. Let all things be for building up.
If one speaks in a language, let it be by two or three at the most, and in turn, also let one interpret.
And if there is no interpreter, let him be silent in church, and let him speak to himself and to God.
And if there are two or three prophets, let them speak, and let the others discern.
But if a revelation is revealed to another sitting by, let the first be silent.
For you can all prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be encouraged.
And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.
For God is not God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints.
Let your women be silent in the churches, for it is not allowed to them to speak, but to be in subjection, as also the Law says.
But if they desire to learn anything, let them question their husbands at home; for it is a shame for a woman to speak in a church.
Or did the Word of God go out from you? Or did it reach only to you?
If anyone thinks to be a prophet, or a spiritual one, let him recognize the things I write to you, that they are a command of the Lord.
But if any be ignorant, let him be ignorant.
So then, brothers, seek eagerly to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak in languages.
And let all things be done decently and in order.