Then be imitators of God, as beloved children,
and walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave Himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for an odor of a sweet smell.
But let not fornication, and all uncleanness, or greediness, be named among you, as is fitting for saints;
also baseness, and foolish talking, or joking (the things not becoming), but rather thanksgiving.
For be knowing this, that every fornicator, or unclean one, or covetous one , who is an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Let no one deceive you with empty words, for through these the wrath of God comes on the sons of disobedience.
Then do not be partners with them;
for you then were darkness, but now light in the Lord; walk as children of light.
For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth,
proving what is pleasing to the Lord.
And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them .
For it is shameful even to speak of the things being done by them in secret.
But all things being exposed by the light are clearly revealed, for everything having been revealed is light.
Because of this, He says, Arise, sleeping ones and stand up out of the dead ones, and Christ will shine on you. No OT passage
Then watch how carefully you walk, not as unwise, but as wise ones,
redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
For this reason, do not be foolish, but understanding what the will of the Lord is .
And "do not be drunk with wine," in which is debauchery, but be filled by the Spirit, Prov. 23:31
speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and praising in your heart to the Lord,
giving thanks at all times for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, even to God the Father,
having been subject to one another in the fear of God.
Wives, subject yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord,
because a husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is Head of the church, and He is Savior of the body.
But even as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives to their own husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself up on its behalf,
that He might sanctify it, cleansing it by the washing of the water in the Word,
that He might present it to Himself as the glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle, or any such things, but that it be holy and without blemish.
So, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies, (he loving his wife loves himself),
for then no one hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as also the Lord the church.
For we are members of His body, of His flesh, and of His bones.
"For this a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh." Gen. 2:24
The mystery is great, but I speak as to Christ and as to the church.
However, you also, everyone, let each love his wife as himself, and the wife, that she give deference to the husband.