Brothers, truly my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is for it to be saved.
For I bear record to them that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.
For they, being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness for everyone who believes.
For Moses writes of the righteousness which is of the Law, "The man who does those things shall live by them."
But the righteousness of faith says this: "Do not say in your heart, Who shall ascend into Heaven?" that is, to bring Christ down;
or "Who shall descend into the deep?"; that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.
But what does it say? "The word is near you, even in your mouth and in your heart"; that is, the word of faith which we proclaim;
Because if you confess the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you shall be saved.
For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth one confesses unto salvation.
For the Scripture says, "Everyone believing on Him shall not be put to shame."
For there is no difference both of Jew and of Greek, for the same Lord over all is rich to all who call on Him.
For everyone, "whoever shall call on the name of the Lord will be saved."
How then shall they call on Him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without preaching?
And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, "How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things!"
But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, "Lord, who has believed our report?"
Then faith is of hearing, and hearing by the Word of God.
But I say, Have they not heard? Yes indeed, their voice went out into all the earth, and their words to the end of the world.
But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses says, "I will provoke you to jealousy by those who are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you."
But Isaiah is very bold and says, "I was found by those who did not seek Me, I became known to those who did not ask after Me."
But to Israel He says, "All day long I have stretched forth My hands to a disobeying and gainsaying people."