For we know that—if, our earthly tent-dwelling, should be taken down, we have, a building of God, a dwelling not made by hand, age-abiding in the heavens.
And verily, in this, we sigh, earnestly desiring to clothe ourselves over, with our habitation which is of heaven,—
Although, indeed, even clothing ourselves, we shall not be found, naked;—
And verily, we who are in the tent, do sigh, being weighed down, while yet we are not wishing to unclothe ourselves, but to clothe ourselves over,—in order that, what is mortal, may be swallowed up, by life.
Now, he that hath wrought us for this very thing, is, God,—who hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit,
Having good courage, therefore, at all times, and knowing that—remaining at home in the body, we are away from home from the Lord,—
By faith, are we walking, not by sight;—
We have good courage, however, and are well pleased—rather to be away from home, out of the body, and to come home, unto the Lord.
Wherefore also we are ambitious—whether at home, or away from home, to be, well-pleasing unto him.
For, we all, must needs be made manifest before the judgment seat of the Christ, that each one may get back the things done by means of the body, according to the things which he practised, whether good or corrupt.
Knowing, then, the fear of the Lord, we persuade, men, but, unto God, are manifest,—I hope, moreover, even in your consciences, that we are manifest:
Not again, ourselves, do we commend unto you, but as though an occasion we were giving unto you—something to boast of, in our behalf; that ye may have something suited unto them who, in appearance, are boasting, and not in heart.
For, whether we have been beside ourselves, it hath been for God, or, whether we are sober-minded, it is for you.
For, the love of the Christ, constraineth us;—
Having judged this,—that, one, in behalf of all, died, hence, they all, died; and, in behalf of all, died he,—in order that, they who live, no longer for themselves, should live, but for him who, in their behalf, died and rose again.
So that, we, henceforth, know, no one, after the flesh: if we have even been gaining, after the flesh, a knowledge of Christ,
On the contrary, now, no longer, are we gaining it. So that, if any one is in Christ, there is a new creation! the old things, have passed away,—Lo! they have become new!
The all things, moreover, are of God,—who hath reconciled us unto himself, through Christ, and hath given, unto us, the reconciling ministry:—
How that, God, was in Christ, reconciling, a world, unto himself, not reckoning, unto them, their offences,—and hath put, in us, the reconciling discourse.
In behalf of Christ, therefore, are we ambassadors,—as if God were beseeching through us: we entreat, in behalf of Christ,—be reconciled unto God!
Him who knew not sin, in our behalf, he made to be, sin, that we might become God’s righteousness in him.