Man, that is born of woman, Is of few days, and full of trouble.
He cometh forth as a flower, and is cut down; He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.
And dost thou fix thine eyes upon such a one? And dost thou bring me into judgment with thee?
Who can produce a clean thing from an unclean? Not one.
Seeing that his days are determined, And the number of his months, with thee, And that thou hast appointed him bounds which he cannot pass,
O turn thine eyes from him, and let him rest, That he may enjoy, as a hireling, his day!
For there is hope for a tree, If it be cut down, that it will sprout again, And that its tender branches will not fail;
Though its root may have grown old in the earth, And though its trunk be dead upon the ground,
Through the scent of water it will bud, And put forth boughs, like a young plant.
But man dieth, and he is gone! Man expireth, and where is he?
The waters fail from the lake; And the stream wasteth and drieth up;
So man lieth down, and riseth not; Till the heavens be no more, he shall not awake, Nor be roused from his sleep.
O that thou wouldst hide me in the under-world! That thou wouldst conceal me till thy wrath be past! That thou wouldst appoint me a time, and then remember me!
If a man die, can he live again? All the days of my war-service would I wait, Till my change should come.
Thou wilt call, and I will answer thee; Thou wilt have compassion upon the work of thy hands!
But now thou numberest my steps; Thou watchest over my sins.
My transgression is sealed up in a bag; Yea, thou addest unto my iniquity.
As the mountain falling cometh to nought, And the rock is removed from its place;
As the waters wear away the stones, And the floods wash away the dust of the earth, So thou destroyest the hope of man.
Thou prevailest against him continually, and he perisheth; Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.
His sons come to honor, but he knoweth it not; Or they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not.
But his flesh shall have pain for itself alone; For itself alone shall his soul mourn.