And one and all the throng of them, arising, led him unto Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying—This one, found we, perverting our nation, and forbidding to give, tribute unto Caesar,—and affirming himself to be, an anointed king.
And, Pilate, questioned him, saying—Art, thou, the king of the Jews? And, he, answering him, said—Thou, sayest.
And, Pilate, said unto the High-priests and the multitudes, Nothing, find I, worthy of blame, in this man.
But, they, began to be urgent, saying—He is stirring up the people, teaching along all Judaea, even beginning from Galilee unto this place.
Now, Pilate, hearing [that], questioned whether the man was, a Galilaean.
And, getting to know that he was of the jurisdiction of Herod, he sent him back unto Herod, he also, being in Jerusalem in these days.
And, Herod, seeing Jesus, rejoiced exceedingly; for he had been, a considerable number of times, wishing to see him,—because he had heard concerning him, and was hoping, some sign, to behold, by him, brought to pass.
And he went on to question him in a good many words; but, he, answered him, nothing.
And the High-priests and the Scribes stood vehemently accusing him.
And Herod with his soldiery, having set him at nought, and mocked him, threw about him a gorgeous robe, and sent him back unto Pilate.
And they became friends—both Herod and Pilate—on the self-same day, one with another; for they had previously been at enmity between themselves.
And, Pilate, calling together the High-priests, and the Rulers, and the people,
said unto them—Ye brought unto me this man, as one turning away the people, and lo! I, in your presence, examining him, found, nothing, in this man worthy of blame, in respect of the things whereof ye were making accusation against him.
Nay! nor Herod; for he hath sent him back unto you,—and lo! nothing worthy of death, hath been done by him.
So, then, chastising him, I will release him.

But they cried aloud, with the whole throng, saying—Away with this man! and release unto us Barabbas:—
who indeed, because of a certain revolt which had occurred in the city, and of murder, had been thrown into prison.
Again, however, Pilate, called out unto them, wishing to release Jesus.
But, they, called out in return, saying—Crucify! crucify him!
But, he, the third time, said unto them—Why! what base thing hath this man done? Nothing worthy of death, found I in him. Chastising him, then, I will release him!
But they became urgent with loud voices, claiming to have him crucified; and their voices began to prevail.
And, Pilate, consented, that their request should be granted;
and released him who, for revolt and murder, had been cast into prison, whom they claimed,—whereas, Jesus, delivered he up unto their will.
And, as they led him away, they laid hold of a certain Simon, a Cyrenian, coming from the country,—they laid on him the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus.
And there was following him a great throng of the people, and of women, who were smiting themselves and lamenting him.
But, turning towards them, Jesus said—Daughters of Jerusalem! Do not weep for me; but, for yourselves, be weeping, and for your children.
For lo! days are coming, in which they will say—Happy the barren! even the wombs that never bare, and the breasts that never gave suck.
Then, will they begin to say—unto the mountains, Fall upon us! and unto the hills, Cover us!
Because if, in moist wood, these things, they are doing,—in, the dry, what shall happen?
And there were being led, two other evil-doers also, to be lifted up.
And, when they came into the place which was called Skull, there, they crucified him; and the evil-doers, one indeed on the right hand, and the other on the left.
[[But, Jesus, was saying—Father! forgive them; for they know not what they do.]] And, when they were parting his garments, they cast lots.
And the people were standing, looking on. But the rulers were sneering, saying—Others, he saved, let him save himself,—if, this, is, the Christ of God, the Chosen.
Moreover the soldiers also mocked him,—coming near, offering, vinegar, unto him,
and saying—If, thou, art the King of the Jews, save thyself.
Now there was an inscription also, over him—THE KING OF THE JEWS, THIS!
And, one of the suspended evil-doers, began to defame him—Art not, thou, the Christ? Save thyself and us!
But the other, answering, rebuked him, and said—Neither fearest, thou, God, in that thou art, in the same judgment?
And, we, indeed, justly,—for, things worthy of what we have done, are we duly receiving, but, this man, nothing amiss, hath done.
And he went on to say—Jesus! remember me, whensoever thou shalt come into thy kingdom.
And he said unto him—Verily, I say unto thee this day: With me, shalt thou be in Paradise.
And it was already about the sixth hour, and, darkness, came upon the whole land, until the ninth hour,—
the sun failing; and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.
And, calling out with a loud voice, Jesus said—Father! into thy hands, I commend my spirit. And, this, saying, he ceased to breathe.
And the centurion, beholding that which came to pass, began to glorify God, saying—In very deed, this man, was, righteous.
And, all the multitudes who had been drawn together unto this spectacle, having looked upon the things that came to pass, smiting their breasts, began to return.
But all they who were acquainted with him, were standing afar off, women also who had followed with him from Galilee,—beholding these things.
And lo! a man, by name Joseph, being, a councillor,—a good and righteous man
(the same had not consented unto their plan and deed),—from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was awaiting the kingdom of God,
the same, going unto Pilate, claimed the body of Jesus.
And, taking it down, he wrapped it in a fine Indian cloth, and laid him in a tomb hewn in stone,—where no one as yet was lying.
And it was a day of preparation, and, a Sabbath, was about to dawn.
And the women, they who had come out of Galilee with him, following after, observed the tomb, and how his body was laid.
And, returning, they made ready spices and perfumes. And, on the Sabbath, indeed, they were quiet, according to the commandment;