See what manner of love the Father has given us, that we may be called children of God. For this reason the world does not know us, because it did not know Him.
Beloved, now we are the children of God, and it was not yet revealed what we shall be. But we know that if He is revealed, we shall be like Him, because we shall see Him as He is.
And everyone having this hope on Him purifies himself even as that One is pure.
Everyone practicing sin also practices lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness.
And you know that He was revealed that He might take away our sins, and sin is not in Him.
Everyone remaining in Him does not sin. Everyone sinning has not seen Him, nor known Him.
Little children, let no one lead you astray; the one practicing righteousness is righteous, even as that One is righteous.
The one practicing sin is of the Devil, because the Devil sins from the beginning. For this the Son of God was revealed, that He undo the works of the Devil.
Everyone who has been begotten of God does not sin, because His seed abides in him, and he is not able to sin, because he has been born of God.
By this the children of God and the children of the Devil are revealed: Everyone not practicing righteousness is not of God; also the one not loving his brother.
Because this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another,
not as Cain was of the evil one, and killed his brother. And for what did he kill him? Because his works were evil, but the things of his brother were righteous.
Do not marvel, my brothers, if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brothers. The one not loving the brother remains in death.
Everyone hating the brother is a murderer, and you know that every murderer does not have everlasting life abiding in him.
By this we have known the love of God , because that One laid down His life for us; and on behalf of the brothers we ought to lay down our lives.
Whoever has the means of life of the world, and sees his brother having need, and shuts up his bowels from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
My little children, let us not love in word, or in tongue, but in deed and in truth.
And in this we shall know that we are of the truth, and shall persuade our hearts before Him,
that if our heart accuses us, we know that God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart does not accuse us, we have confidence with God.
And whatever we ask, we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments, and we do the things pleasing before Him.
And this is His commandment, that we should believe the name of His Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as He gave command to us.
And the one keeping His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. And by this we know that He abides in us, by the Spirit which He gave to us.