And there went a man of the house of Levi,—and took a daughter of Levi.
And the woman conceived and bare a son,—and she saw him, that he was a goodly child, so she hid him three months.
And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark of paper-reed, and covered it over with bitumen, and with pitch,—and put therein the child, and laid it among the rushes upon the bank of the river.
Then did his sister station herself at a distance,—to see what would be done to him.
So then the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe by the river, and her, maidens, were walking by the side of the river,—when she saw the ark in the midst of the rushes, and sent her handmaid, and fetched it.
And she opened and beheld it—even the child, and lo! a boy weeping,—so she took pity on him, and said, Of the children of the Hebrews, is this.
Then said his sister unto Pharaoh’s daughter, Shall I go and call thee a nurse, of the Hebrew women,—that she may nurse for thee the child?
And Pharaoh’s daughter said to her—Go. So the maid went, and called the mother of the child.
And Pharaoh’s daughter said to her—Take this child, and nurse it for me, and, I, will give thee thy wages. So the woman took the child, and nursed it.
And the child grew, and she brought him in to Pharaoh’s daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses, and said—For out of the water, I drew him.
And it came to pass in those days when Moses grew up, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens,—and saw, an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew—of his brethren,
So he turned this way and that, and when he saw that there was no man, he smote the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.
And he went out on the second day, and lo! two Hebrews, striving together,—so he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore shouldest thou smite thy fellow?
And he said—Who hath set thee for a chief and a judge over us? To slay me, art thou thinking, as thou didst slay the Egyptian? Then was Moses afraid, and said—Surely the thing is, known!
So Pharaoh heard this thing, and sought to slay Moses,—and Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian and sat down by the well.
Now, the priest of Midian, had seven daughters,—and they came and drew and filled the troughs, to water their fathers flock.
Then came the shepherds, and drave them away,—so Moses rose up, and succoured them, and watered their flock,
Then came they in unto Reuel their father,—and he said, Wherefore have ye so early come in to-day?
And they said, An Egyptian, delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds,—Moreover also he drew, for us, and watered the flock.
And he said unto his daughters—And where is he? wherefore is it that ye left the man? Call him that he may eat bread.
And Moses was well-pleased to dwell with the man,—and he gave Zipporah his daughter to Moses.
And she bare a son, and he called his name Gershom,—for he said, A, sojourner, I am, in a strange land.
And it came to pass, during those many days, that the king of Egypt died, and the sons of Israel sighed by reason of the servitude and lamented,—and their cry for help went up to God, by reason of the servitude.
And God heard their groaning,—and God remembered his covenant, with Abraham, with Isaac and with Jacob;
so then, God looked upon the sons of Israel,—and God regarded.