Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David camped. Add year on year; let feasts run their circle.
Then I will compress Ariel, and there shall be mourning and sorrow; and it shall be to Me as Ariel.
And I will camp as a circle on you, and will lay siege work on you; and I will raise up ramparts on you.
And you shall be brought low; you shall speak from the ground; and your speech shall be bowed down; and your voice shall be from the ground, like a spiritist; and your speech shall chirp out of the dust.
And the host of your strangers shall be as fine powder, and as chaff passing, the host of terrifying ones; and it will be suddenly, instantly;
you shall he visited from Jehovah of Hosts; with thunder and earthquake, and great noise, tempest and storm, and flame of devouring fire.
And the multitude of all the nations who fight against Ariel, even all battling her and compressing her and her stronghold, shall be like a dream of a night vision.
It shall even be as when a hungry one dreams; and, behold, he is eating; but when he awakes, his soul is empty. Or it shall be as when a thirsty one dreams; and, behold, he is drinking, but when he awakes, he is faint, and his soul is longing. So shall be the multitude of all the nations who fight against Mount Zion.
Wait and wonder! Blind yourselves, and be blind! They are drunk, but not with wine! They stagger, but not with fermented drink!
for Jehovah has poured out on you the spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes. He has covered the prophets and your heads, the seers.
And the whole vision to you is like the words of a sealed hook which they give to one knowing books, saying, Please read this. Then he says, I am not able, for it is sealed.
And the hook is given to one who does not know books, saying, Please read this. Then he says, I do not know books.
And the Lord says, Because this people draws near with its mouth, and they honor Me with its lip; but its heart is far from Me, and their fear of Me is taught by the command of men;
So, behold, I am adding to do a wonders with this people, the wonder, even a wonder. For the wisdom of his wise ones shall perish, and the wit of his witty ones shall be hidden.
Woe to those who go deep to hide their purposes from Jehovah; yea, their works are in the dark; and they say, Who sees us? And, Who knows us?
Oh your perversity! Shall the former be counted as the clay? For shall the work of its maker say, He did not make me? Or shall the thing formed say to him who formed it, He does not understand?
Is it not yet a little while, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field; and the fruitful field shall be counted for the forest?
And in that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book; and the eyes of the blind shall see out of their gloom and out of darkness.
And the humble ones shall increase joy in Jehovah, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.
For the terrible one is brought to nothing; and the scorner is ended; and all that watch for evil are cut off;
those who make a man sin by a word, even laying a trap for the reprover in the gate, and turn aside the just for a worthless thing.
So Jehovah says this: He who redeemed Abraham, as to the house of Jacob: Jacob shall not be ashamed now, nor shall his face become pale now.
But when he sees his children in his midst, the work of My hands, they shall sanctify My name. They shall sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.
Those who erred in spirit shall come to understanding, and those who murmured shall learn the teaching.