Let brotherly love continue.
Of the entertaining of strangers, be not forgetful, for, hereby, unawares, have some entertained, messengers.
Bear in mind them who are in bonds, as having become jointly bound,—them who are suffering ill-treatment, as being yourselves also in the body.
Let marriage be honourable in all, and the bed undefiled, for, fornicators and adulterers, God, will judge.
Without fondness for money, be your way of life,—being content with the present things,—for, he, hath said: In nowise, thee, will I leave, no indeed! in nowise, thee, will I forsake:
So that, taking courage, we may be saying—The Lord, hasteth to my cry,—I will not be put in fear: what shall, man, do unto me?
Be mindful of them who are guiding you, who, indeed, have spoken unto you, the word of God: the outgoing of whose behaviour, reviewing, be imitating, their faith.
Jesus Christ, yesterday, and to-day, is the same,—and unto the ages.
With teachings, manifold and strange, be not carried aside; for it is, noble, that, with gratitude, should, the heart, be getting confirmed,—not with matters of food, in which, they who are walking, have not been profited.
We have an altar—to eat out of which, they, have no right, who in the tent are doing divine service;
For, in the case of those living creatures, whose blood for sins is carried into the holy place, through means of the high-priest, the bodies of these, are burned up, outside the camp.
Wherefore, Jesus also, that he might hallow the people through means of his own blood, outside the gate, suffered:
Now, therefore, let us be going forth unto him, outside the camp, his reproach bearing.
For we have not here an abiding city, but, unto that which is to be, are we seeking our way.
Through him, let us be offering up a sacrifice of praise, continually, unto God; that is, a fruit of lips confessing unto his name.
But, of the doing good and of fellowship, be not forgetful; for, with such sacrifices as these, is, God, well-pleased.
Be yielding unto them who are guiding you, and submit yourselves; for they are watching over your souls, as having an account to render, that, with joy the same they may be doing, and not with sighing,—for, unprofitable unto you, were, this.
Be praying for us; for we persuade ourselves that an honourable conscience have we, in all things honourably, desiring to behave ourselves.
But, much more abundantly, do I exhort you the same to do, that, more speedily, I may be restored, unto you.
But, the God of peace, He that led up from among the dead the great Shepherd of the sheep, with the blood of an age-abiding covenant,—our Lord Jesus,
Fit you, by every good work, for the doing of his will, doing within us, that which is well-pleasing, before him through Jesus Christ: to whom be the glory, unto the ages of ages. Amen.
Now I exhort you, brethren, bear with the word of exhortation,—for, even with brief [words], have I sent unto you.
Know ye that our brother Timothy hath been set at liberty,—with whom, if more speedily he be coming, I will see you.
Salute all them who are guiding you, and all the saints: they from Italy, salute you.
Favour be with you all.