When he was come down from the mountain, many people followed him.
And, behold, a leper came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou art willing, thou art able to cleanse me.
And Jesus put forth [his] hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
Then Jesus said unto him, See thou tell no one; but go, show thyself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
And when Jesus was entering into Capernaum, a centurion came unto him, beseeching him,
and saying, Lord, my servant lies at home paralysed, grievously tormented.
And Jesus said unto him, I will come and heal him.
The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou should come under my roof; but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed.
For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me; and I say to this [man], Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does [it].
When Jesus heard [it], he marvelled and said to those that followed, Verily I say unto you that not even in Israel have I found such faith.
But I say unto you, That many shall come from [the] east and west and shall sit down [at the table] with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of the heavens.
But the sons of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then Jesus said unto the centurion, Go, and as thou hast believed, [so] be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in that same hour.
And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother laying in bed and with fever.
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she arose and ministered unto them.
When evening was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils, and he cast out the spirits with the word and healed all that were sick
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, He took our infirmities and bore [our] sicknesses.
Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he commanded that they depart unto the other side.
And a certain scribe came and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee wherever thou goest.
And Jesus said unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven [have] nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay [his] head.
And another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.
But Jesus said unto him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead.
And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him.
And, behold, there arose a great moving in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves; but he was asleep.
And his disciples came to [him] and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us; we perish.
And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then, awake, he rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm.
But the men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him!
And when he was come to the other side, into the country of the Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with demons, coming out of the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way.
And, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God? Art thou come here to torment us before the time?
And there was a good way off from them a herd of many swine feeding.
So the demons besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine.
And he said unto them, Go. And when they were come out, they went into the herd of swine; and, behold, the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea and perished in the waters.
And those that fed them fled and went into the city and told everything and what was befallen to the [ones] possessed of the demons.
And, behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus; and when they saw him, they besought [him] that he would depart out of their borders.: