Now before the feast of the passover, Jesus knew that his hour had come that he must go out of this world to his Father; and having loved his own that were in the world, he loved them to the end.
And supper being over, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to deliver him up,
Jesus, knowing that the Father had delivered all things into his hands, and that he had come from God, and was going to God,
arose from supper, and laid aside his garments, and taking a towel, he girded himself.
Then he poured water into a basin, and began to wash his disciples feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded.
Then he came to Simon Peter; and Peter said to him: Lord, dost thou wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said to him: What I am doing you know not now, but you will know hereafter.
Peter said to him: Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him: Unless I wash you, you have no part with me.
Simon Peter said to him: Lord, not my feet only, but my hands and my head.
Jesus said to him: He that has bathed needs nothing else save to wash his feet, but is wholly clean. And you are clean, but not all.
For he knew who would deliver him up; for this reason he said, You are not all clean.
Therefore, when he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, he reclined at table again, and said to them: Do you understand what I have done for you?
You call me Teacher and Lord; and you say well, for so I am.
If, then, I, your Lord and your Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet.
For I have given you an example, that you also may do as I have done for you.
Verily, verily I say to you, the servant is not greater than his master, nor is he that is sent greater than he that sent him.
If you know these things, blessed are you, if you do them.
I speak not of you all. I know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me.
I tell you this now, before it comes to pass, that when it comes to pass, you may believe that I am he.
Verily, verily I say to you, he that receives him that I shall send, receives me; and he that receives me, receives him that sent me.
When Jesus had spoken these things, he was troubled in spirit, and testified and said: Verily, verily I say to you, that one of you will deliver me up.
Then the disciples looked at one another, doubting of whom he spoke.
There was reclining on the bosom of Jesus, one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved.
Then Simon Peter beckoned to this one, that he should inquire who it was of whom he spoke.
And he that was reclining on Jesus breast, said to him: Lord, who is it?
Jesus answered: It is he to whom I shall give this morsel after I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
And after the morsel was given, then Satan entered into him. Then Jesus said to him: What you do, do quickly.
But none of those who reclined at table with him knew for what purpose he said this to him.
For some thought, because Judas had the purse, that Jesus had said to him: Buy what we need for the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.
Then, on receiving the morsel, he immediately went out; and it was night.
When he had gone out, Jesus said: Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and will immediately glorify him.
Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and, as I said to the Jews, whither I go, you can not come, so now I say to you.
A new commandment I give to you, That you love one another; as I have loved you, that you also love one another.
By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have love one for another.
Simon Peter said to him: Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him: Whither I go, you can not follow me now; but you shall follow me hereafter.
Peter said to him: Lord, why can I not follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thee.
Jesus answered him: Will you lay down your life for me? Verily, verily I say to you, the cock will not crow till you have denied me three times.