When, therefore, the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and immersing more disciples than John,
(though not Jesus himself, but his disciples immersed,)
he left Judea, and went again into Galilee.
And it was necessary that he should go through Samaria.
He came, therefore, to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the field that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
And Jacob’s well was there. Jesus, therefore, wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. It was about the sixth hour.
There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. And Jesus said to her: Give me to drink.
For his disciples had gone into the city to buy food.
Then the woman of Samaria said to him: How is it that you, who are a Jew, ask drink of me, who am a woman of Samaria? (For the Jews have no social intercourse with the Samaritans.)
Jesus answered and said to her: If you had known the gift of God, and who it is that said to you, Give me to drink, you would have asked of him, and he would have given you living water.
The woman said to him: Sir, you have no vessel with which you can draw, and the well is deep; whence have you that living water?
Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank from it himself, and his sons, and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said to her: Whoever drinks of this water, will thirst again;
but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him, shall never thirst. But the water that I will give him, shall be in him a fountain of water springing up in order to eternal life.
The woman said to him: Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come hither to draw.
Jesus said to her: Go, call your husband, and come hither.
The woman answered and said: I have no husband.   Jesus said to her: You have well said. I have no husband;
for you have had five husbands, and he whom you now have is not your husband. In this you have spoken truly.
The woman said to him: Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where we ought to worship.
Jesus said to her: Woman, believe me, the hour is coming, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, will you worship the Father.
You worship you know not what; we know what we worship; for salvation is of the Jews.
But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth; for the Father seeks such to worship him.
God is spirit; and they that worship him, must worship him in spirit and in truth.
The woman said to him: I know that Messiah (who is called Christ) is coming; when he comes, he will tell us all things.
Jesus said to her: I who speak to you am he.
And upon this his disciples came, and were astonished that he was talking with the woman. Yet no one said: What seekest thou? or, why talkest thou with her?
Then the woman left her water-pot, and went into the city, and said to the men:
Come, see a man who has told me all things that I ever did. Is not this the Christ?
Then they went out of the city and came to him.
In the mean time, the disciples besought him, saying: Rabbi, eat.
But he said to them: I have food to eat of which you know not.
Then the disciples said one to another: Has any one brought him food?
Jesus said to them: My food is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.
Do you not say, There are yet four months, and harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, for they are already white for the harvest.
And he that reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit for life eternal; that he that sows, and he that reaps, may rejoice together.
For in this is the saying true, One sows and another reaps.
I have sent you to reap that on which you bestowed no labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labors.
And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him, because of the word of the woman who testified, He told me all things that I ever did.
When, therefore, the Samaritans came to him, they besought him to abide with them. And he abode there two days.
And many more believed because of his own word;
and they said to the woman: We no longer believe because of what you said, for we ourselves have heard, and we know that this is in truth the Savior of the world, the Christ.
And after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee;
for Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.
Therefore, when he came into Galilee, the Galileans received him, because they had seen all things that he had done in Jerusalem during the feast; for they themselves had gone to the feast.
Then Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And there was a certain courtier, whose sou was sick in Capernaum.
When he heard that Jesus had come from Judea into Galilee, he went to him, and besought him that he would come down, and restore his son to health, for he was about to die.
Then said Jesus to him: Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe.
The courtier said to him: Sir, come down before my child die.
Jesus said to him: Go, your child lives. And the man believed the word that Jesus spoke, and departed.
And as he was going down, his servants met him, and said: Your son lives.
Then he inquired of them the hour in which he was restored to health. And they said to him: Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him.
Then his father knew that it was in the same hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives. And he himself, and all his house, believed.
This is the second sign which Jesus did, when he came out of Judea into Galilee.