The hand of the LORD was on me, and brought me by the Spirit of the LORD, and made me rest in the midst of a valley, and it was full of bones.
And He made me pass among them all around. And behold, very many were on the face of the valley. And lo, they were very dry.
And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord Jehovah, You know.
Again He said to me, Prophesy to these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.
So says the Lord Jehovah to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live.
And I will lay sinews on you, and will bring up flesh on you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live. And you shall know that I am the LORD.
So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a noise. And behold, a shaking! And the bones came near, a bone to its bone.
And I watched. And behold! The sinews and the flesh came up on them, and the skin covered them above. But there was no breath in them.
And He said to me, Prophesy to the Spirit, prophesy, son of man, and say to the Spirit, So says the Lord Jehovah: Come from the four winds, O Spirit, and breathe on these dead ones so that they may live.
So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the Spirit came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army.
And He said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried and our hope is lost; we are cut off by ourselves.
Therefore prophesy and say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, O My people, I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, and will bring you into the land of Israel.
And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I have opened your graves, O My people, and have brought you up out of your graves.
And I shall put My Spirit in you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. And you shall know that I the LORD have spoken and have done it, says the LORD.
And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
And you, son of man, take a stick and write on it, For Judah and for his companions, the sons of Israel. And take another stick and write on it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and all the house of Israel, his companions.
And join them to one another into one stick. And they shall become one in your hand.
And when the sons of your people shall speak to you, saying, Will you not declare to us what these mean to you?
Say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel, his companions, and I will put them with him, with the stick of Judah, and will make them one stick, and they shall be one in My hand.
And the sticks on which you write shall be in your hand before their eyes.
And say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the sons of Israel from among the nations where they have gone, and will gather them on every side, and will bring them into their own land.
And I will make them one nation in the land on the mountains of Israel, and one King shall be king to them all. And they shall not still be two nations, nor shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all.
Nor shall they be defiled with their idols, even with their filthy idols, nor with all of their transgressions. But I will save them out of all their dwelling places, in them where they sinned, and will cleanse them. And they shall be to Me for a people, and I will be to them for God.
And David My servant shall be King over them. And there shall be one Shepherd to all of them. And they shall walk in My judgments, and obey My laws, and do them.
And they shall dwell in the land that I have given to Jacob My servant, the land in which your fathers have lived. And they shall dwell in it, even they and their sons, and the sons of their sons for ever. And My servant David shall be their ruler forever.
And I will cut a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will place them, and multiply them, and will set My sanctuary in their midst forever.
And My tabernacle shall be with them. Yea, I will be their God, and they shall be My people.
And the nations shall know that I the LORD sanctify Israel, when My sanctuary shall be in their midst forever.