Hear now what the LORD says: Arise, contend with the mountains and let the hills hear your voice.
Mountains, hear the LORD's case, and the constant foundations of the earth. For the LORD has a quarrel with His people, and He will plead His case with Israel.
O My people, what have I done to you? And in what have I made you weary? Testify against Me!
For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of slaves; and I sent Moses, Aaron, and Miriam before you.
O My people, remember now what Balak king of Moab planned, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim to Gilgal, so that you may know the righteousness acts of the LORD.
With what shall I come before the LORD, to bow myself before God the Most High? Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old?
Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my first-born for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
He has shown you, O man, what is good. And what does the LORD require of you but to do justice and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God?
The LORD's voice cries to the city, and in sound wisdom one will see Your name. Hear the rod and Him who has appointed it.
Are the treasures of wickedness still in the house of the wicked, and the short measure that is hateful?
Shall I count those with the wicked scales pure, and those with the bag of deceitful weights?
For its rich men are full of violence, and its people have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
Therefore I also have made you sick by striking you, laying you waste because of your sins.
You shall eat, but not be satisfied; and your casting down shall be in your midst. And you shall take hold, but shall not deliver; and that which you deliver I will give up to the sword.
You shall sow, but you shall not reap; you shall tread the olives, but you shall not anoint yourself with oil; and sweet wine, but shall not drink wine.
For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and you walk in their counsels, so that I should make you a ruin and its people a hissing; therefore you shall bear the shame of My people.