MOREOVER, brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not irksome, but is safe for you.
Beware of dogs, beware of the malicious labourers, beware of the concision.
For we are the circumcision, who serve God in spirit, and glory in Christ Jesus, and put no confidence in the flesh.
Though I too might have confidence in the flesh; if any other man thinks that he may have confidence in the flesh, I may claim more:
circumcised the eighth day, of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews;
respecting the law, a Pharisee; with regard to zeal, persecuting the church; as touching the righteousness which is by the law, blameless.
But what things were gain to me, these have I counted loss for Christ.
Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the transcendently excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but as offals of ordure, that I may gain Christ,
and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is by the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
that I may know him, and the virtue of his resurrection, and communion with his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
if haply I may attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
Not that I have already attained, or am now perfect: but I pursue, that I may overtake that for which also by his apprehension of me I am destined by Christ Jesus.
Brethren, I count not myself to have overtaken it; but this one object I pursue, forgetting the things which are behind, and reaching out to those which are before,
I press towards the mark for the prize of the divine calling from on high in Christ Jesus.
Let as many of us therefore as are perfect, be thus minded: and if ye entertain any other sentiment, God also will unveil this unto you.
Nevertheless, so far as we have advanced, be it our care to walk by the same rule, to mind the same thing.
Be ye imitators, brethren, of me, and eye attentively those who walk so as ye have us for an example.
For many walk, whom I have often mentioned to you, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
whose end is perdition, whose God is their belly, and their glory in their shame, whose minds are occupied with earthly things.
But our conversation is in heaven as its citizens, from whence also we are expecting the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who shall transform our body of humiliation, that it may be conformed to his body of glory, according to the effectual working of him who is able to subdue even all things to himself.