Truly God is good to Israel,—To those who are pure in heart.
Yet my feet almost gave way; My steps had well nigh slipped:
For I was envious of the proud, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
For they have no pains even to their death; Their bodies are in full health.
They have not the woes of other men, Neither are they smitten like other men.
Therefore pride encircleth their neck as a collar; Violence covereth them as a garment.
From their bosom issueth their iniquity; The designs of their hearts burst forth.
They mock, and speak of malicious oppression; Their words are haughty;
They stretch forth their mouth to the heavens, And their tongue goeth through the earth;
Therefore his people walk in their ways, And there drink from full fountains.
And they say, "How doth God know? How can there be knowledge with the Most High?"
Behold these are the ungodly! Yet they are ever prosperous; they heap up riches.
Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain; In vain have I washed my hands in innocence.
For every day have I been smitten; Every morn have I been chastened.
If I should resolve to speak like them, Surely I should be treacherous to the family of thy children.
So, when I studied to know this, It was painful to my eyes;
Until I went into the sanctuaries of God, And considered what was their end.
Behold! thou hast set them on slippery places; Thou castest them down into unseen pits.
How are they brought to desolation in a moment, And utterly consumed with sudden destruction!
As a dream when one awaketh, Thou, O Lord! when thou awakest, wilt make their vain show a derision.
When my heart was vexed And I was pierced in my reins,
Then was I stupid and without understanding; I was like one of the brutes before thee.
Yet am I ever under thy care; By my right hand thou dost hold me up.
Thou wilt guide me with thy counsel, And at last receive me in glory.
Whom have I in heaven but thee, And whom on earth do I love in comparison with thee?
Though my flesh and my heart fail, God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.
For, lo! they who are far from thee perish; Thou destroyest all who estrange themselves from thee.
But it is good for me to draw near to God; I put my trust in the Lord Jehovah, That I may declare all thy works.