And Joshua the son of Nun sent two men out of Shittim to spy secretly, saying, Go look over the land, and Jericho. And they went and came into the house of a woman, a harlot; and her name was Rahab. And they lay down there.
And it was reported to the King of Jericho saying, Behold, men have come here tonight from the sons of Israel, to search the land.
And the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, Bring out the men who have come in to you, who have come into your house. For they have come in to search out all the land.
And the woman took the two men and hid them, and said, This way the men came in to me, but I did not know from where they were.
And it happened as the gate was to be shut at dark, even the men went out. I do not know where they have gone. You go after them, and hurry, for you may overtake them.
But she made them go up on the roof, and hid them with stalks of flax, which she arranged on the roof.
And the men went after them the way of the Jordan, by the fords. And they shut the gate afterwards, when the pursuers had gone after them.
And before they had laid down, she came up to them on the roof.
And she said to the men, I know that Jehovah has given the land to you, and that your terror has fallen on us, and that all the inhabitants of the land have melted before you.
For we have heard how Jehovah dried up the water of the Sea of Reeds before you, as you were going out of Egypt; also that which you have done to two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan; to Sihon, and to Og, whom you destroyed.
And we have heard, and our heart has melted, and there not still rises spirit in any man, because of you. For Jehovah your God, He is God in the heavens above, and in the earth below.
And now, please swear by me by Jehovah, since I have dealt with you in kindness, that you will also deal with my father's house in kindness, and shall give to me a true token;
and shall keep alive my father, and my mother, and my brothers, and my sisters, and all that they own and shall deliver our souls from death.
And the men said to her, Our life is yours. If you do not tell this business of ours, then it shall be, when Jehovah gives this land to us that we shall deal with you in kindness and truth.
Then she let them down by a rope through the window, for her house was in the side of the wall, and she lived in the wall.
And she said to them, Go to the mountain lest the pursuers come upon you. And you shall hide there three days until the pursuers return; and afterward you shall go on your way.
And the men said to her, We will be guiltless from this oath of yours which you made us swear.
Behold, we are coming into the land; you shall bind this scarlet thread of line in the window by which you have let us down. And you shall gather your father, and your mother, and your brothers, and all your father's house to you, to the house.
And it shall be, anyone who goes outside from the doors of your house his blood shall be on his head, and we shall be innocent. And anyone who is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head, if any hand is on him.
But if you reveal this business of ours, then we shall be guiltless from your oath which you make us swear.
And she said, Let it be according to your words. And she sent them away. And they went. And she bound the line of scarlet thread in the window.
And they departed and came to the mountain, and stayed there three days, until the pursuers had returned. And the pursuers searched in all the way, but did not find them .
And the two men returned and came down from the mountain, and crossed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and reported to him all that had happened to them.
And they said to Joshua, Surely Jehovah has given all the land into our hands. And also, all the inhabitants of the land have melted before us.