And when they had saved themselves, they then learned that the island was called Melita.
And the barbarians showed us no ordinary kindness; for they kindled a fire, and received us all, because of the rain which was falling, and because of the cold.
And when Paul had brought together a heap of brushwood, and laid it on the fire, a viper came out, by reason of the heat, and fastened itself on his hand.
And when the barbarians saw the reptile hanging from his hand, they said to one another: This man is certainly a murderer, whom, although he has saved himself from the sea, justice does not permit to live.
Then he shook the reptile from him into the fire, and suffered no harm.
But they were expecting that he would become inflamed and swollen, or would suddenly fall down dead; yet, after expecting it for a long time, and seeing no harm befall him, they changed their mind, and said he was a god.
Among the estates about that place were those of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius, who took us to his house, and, for three days, entertained us kindly.
And it happened that the father of Publius was lying sick with fever and dysentery. And Paul went in to him, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and restored him to health.
Therefore, after this had been clone, the rest also in the island who had diseases, came and were cured.
And they also honored us with many honors; and, when we put to sea, they supplied us with such things as we needed.
After three months we put to sea in a ship of Alexandria, which had wintered in the island, whose sign was the Dioscuri.
And we landed at Syracuse, and remained there three days:
from which place, by coasting about, we came to Rhegium; and one day afterward, the south wind arose; and we came, on the next day, to Puteoli,
where we found brethren, and were persuaded to remain with them seven days. And thus we went toward Home.
And from this place, the brethren, having heard of us, came out as far as Appii Forum and the Three Taverns, to meet us. When Paul saw the brethren, he thanked God, and took courage.
When we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard; but Paul was permitted to dwell by himself, with a soldier that guarded him.
And it came to pass, after three days, that he called together the chief men of the Jews; and when they had come, he said to them: Brethren, though I have done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
They, after examination, would have released me, for they found no cause of death in me.
But because the Jews spoke against it, I was compelled to appeal to Cæsar: not that I have any accusation to bring against my own nation.
For this reason, I called for you, that I might see you and speak to you; for on account of the hope of Israel, I am bound with this chain.
And they said to him: We have neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor has any one of the brethren come, and reported or spoken any evil of you.
But we think it right to hear from you what you think: for, as it respects this sect, we know that it is everywhere spoken against.
And when they had appointed him a day, many came to him at his lodging; to whom, from morning till evening;, he earnestly testified, and set forth the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses, and from the prophets.
And some believed the things that were spoken, and some believed not.
And not agreeing among themselves, they departed, after Paul had spoken one word: Well did the Holy Spirit speak to our fathers by Isaiah the prophet,
saying: Go to this people and say, You shall surely hear, but you will not understand; and you shall surely see, but you will not perceive.
For the heart of this people has become fat, and with their ears they hear heavily, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should turn, and I should restore them to health.
Therefore, be it known to you, that the salvation of God is sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear.
And when he had said these things, the Jews departed, and had great disputation among themselves.
And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own rented house, and received all that came to him,
preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all boldness and without hinderance.