The priests the Levites, even all the tribe of Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel. They shall eat the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, and his inheritance.
And they shall have no inheritance among their brothers. Jehovah is their inheritance as he has spoken to them.
And this shall be the priests' due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep: that they shall give to the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.
The first-fruits of thy grain, of thy new wine, and of thine oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, thou shall give him.
For Jehovah thy God has chosen him out of all thy tribes to stand to minister in the name of Jehovah, him and his sons forever.
And if a Levite comes from any of thy gates out of all Israel, where he sojourns, and comes with all the desire of his soul to the place which Jehovah shall choose,
then he shall minister in the name of Jehovah his God, as all his brothers the Levites do who stand there before Jehovah.
They shall have like portions to eat, besides that which comes of the sale of his patrimony.
When thou have come into the land, which Jehovah thy God gives thee, thou shall not learn to do according to the abominations of those nations.
There shall not be found with thee anyone who makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, a psychic, he who practices augury, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer,
or a charmer, or a medium, or a spiritist, or a necromancer.
For whoever does these things is an abomination to Jehovah. And because of these abominations Jehovah thy God drives them out from before thee.
Thou shall be perfect with Jehovah thy God.
For these nations, that thou shall dispossess, hearken to those who practice augury, and to psychics. But as for thee, Jehovah thy God has not allowed thee to do so.
Jehovah thy God will raise up for thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brothers, like me. Ye shall hearken to him,
according to all that thou desired of Jehovah thy God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of Jehovah my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I not die.
And Jehovah said to me, They have well said that which they have spoken.
I will raise up a prophet for them from among their brothers, like thee. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I shall command him.
And it shall come to pass, that whoever will not hearken to my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him.
But the prophet, who shall speak a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or who shall speak in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.
And if thou say in thy heart, How shall we know the word which Jehovah has not spoken?
When a prophet speaks in the name of Jehovah, if the thing does not follow, nor come to pass, that is the thing which Jehovah has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. Thou shall not be afraid of him.