However, Job, now hear my speech and listen to all my words.
Behold, now I have opened my mouth; my tongue has spoken in my mouth.
My words shall be from my upright heart; and my lips will clearly speak knowledge.
The Spirit of God made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
If you are able, answer me; set yourself in order before me. Stand up!
Behold, I am toward God as you; I also was formed from the clay.
Behold, my terror shall not frighten you; and my burden shall not be heavy on you.
Surely you have spoken in my ears, and I have heard the sound of words.
You said , I am pure, without transgression; I am clean and no iniquity is in me;
behold, He finds alienation on me; He considers me His enemy;
He puts my feet in the stocks; He watches all my paths.
Behold, you are not right in this. I will answer you, for God is greater than man.
Why do you contend against Him, since He does not give account to you for any of His matters?
For in one way God may speak, and in a second, but one does not notice it.
In a dream, a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls on men; while they slumber on the bed,
then He opens the ear of men and seals their instruction,
that He may turn man from his deed; that He might conceal pride from man.
He holds back his soul from the Pit, and his life from passing by the sword.
He is also chastened with pain on his bed, and enduring strife in his bones;
so that his life loathes bread, and his soul desirable food.
His flesh wastes away from his sight; and his hones laid bare, they were not seen.
Yea, his soul draws near to the Pit, and his life to the dealers of death.
If there is a messenger for him, a mediator, one among a thousand, to declare for man his uprightness,
then let Him be gracious to him and say, Deliver him from going down to the Pit, for I have found a ransom!
His flesh shall be fresher than in vigor; let him return to the days of his youth.
He will pray to God, and He will accept him, and he will see His face with exultation; for He will restore to man his righteousness.
He will observe to men and say, I have sinned, and I have perverted uprightness; and it was not equally repaid to me;
He has redeemed my soul from passing over into the Pit, and my life shall see the light.
Lo, all these God does two or three times with a man,
to bring back his soul from the Pit, to be illuminated with the light of the living.
Pay attention, O Job; listen to me; be silent, and I will speak.
If you have anything to say, answer me; speak, for I desire to justify you.
If not, you listen to me; be silent, and I will teach you wisdom.