A false balance is an abomination to Jehovah, but a just weight is his delight.
When pride comes, then comes shame, but with the lowly is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them.
Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way, but the wicked man shall fall by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but the treacherous shall be taken in their own iniquity.
When a wicked man dies, his expectation shall perish, and the hope of iniquity perishes.
A righteous man is delivered out of trouble, and a wicked man comes in his stead.
The hypocrite destroys his neighbor with his mouth, but the righteous shall be delivered through knowledge.
When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices. And when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He who despises his neighbor is void of wisdom, but a man of understanding holds his peace.
He who goes around as a tale-bearer reveals secrets, but he who is of a faithful spirit conceals a matter.
Where no wise guidance is, the people fall, but in the multitude of counselors there is safety.
He who is surety for a stranger shall smart for it, but he who hates suretyship is secure.
A gracious woman obtains honor, and aggressive men obtain riches.
The merciful man does good to his own soul, but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.
A wicked man earns deceitful wages, but he who sows righteousness has a sure reward.
He who is steadfast in righteousness comes to life, and he who pursues evil comes to his own death.
Those who are perverse in heart are an abomination to Jehovah, but such as are perfect in their way are his delight.
Hand in hand, the evil man shall not be unpunished, but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
A ring of gold in a swine's snout, is a beautiful woman who is without discretion.
The desire of the righteous is only good. The expectation of the wicked is wrath.
There is he who scatters, and increases yet more, and there he is who withholds more than is proper, but only to want.
The generous soul shall be made prosperous, and he who waters shall also be watered himself.
The people shall curse him who withholds grain, but a blessing shall be upon the head of him who sells it.
He who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but he who searches after evil, it shall come to him.
He who trusts in his riches shall fall, but the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf.
He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind. And a foolish man shall be servant to a wise man of heart.
The fruit of a righteous man is a tree of life, and he who is wise wins souls.
Behold, a righteous man shall be recompensed in the earth, how much more the wicked man and the sinner!