Awake! Awake! Put on your strength, Zion; put on your beautiful robes, O Jerusalem, the holy city. For never again shall come to you uncircumcised and unclean ones.
Shake yourself from the dust; rise up! Sit, Jerusalem! Free yourself from your neckbands, O captive daughter of Zion.
For so says the LORD, You were sold for nothing; and you shall not be redeemed with silver.
For so says the Lord Jehovah, My people went down before into Egypt to stay there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.
Now therefore, what have I here, says the LORD, that My people are taken away for nothing? Those who rule make them howl, says the LORD; and without ceasing My name is blasphemed every day.
Therefore My people shall know My name; So it shall be in that day, for I am He who speaks; behold, it is I.
How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good tidings, making peace heard; who brings good news, making salvation heard; who says to Zion, Your God reigns!
The voice of Your watchmen shall lift up! They lift up the voice together; they sing aloud. For they shall see eye to eye, when the LORD shall bring again Zion.
Break out, sing together, waste places of Jerusalem; for the LORD has comforted His people; He has redeemed Jerusalem.
The LORD has bared His holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
Turn! Turn! Go out from there! Touch not the unclean. Go out of her midst; purify yourself, bearers of the vessels of the LORD.
For you shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight; for the LORD will go before you; and the God of Israel gathers you.
Behold, My Servant shall rule well; He shall be exalted and extolled, and be very high.
Just as many were astonished at You (so much was the disfigurement from man, His appearance and His form from the sons of mankind);
so He sprinkles from many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at Him; for they will see that which was not told to them; yea, what they had not heard, nor understood.