There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
But the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death.
For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh;
so that the righteousness of the Law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
For they who are according to the flesh mind the things of flesh, but they who are according to the Spirit the things of the Spirit.
For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace
because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be.
So then they who are in the flesh cannot please God.
But you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone has not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of His.
And if Christ is in you, indeed the body is dead because of sin, but the Spirit is life because of righteousness.
But if the Spirit of the One who raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in you, the One who raised up Christ from the dead shall also make your mortal bodies alive by His Spirit who dwells in you.
Therefore, brothers, we are not debtors to the flesh, to live according to the flesh.
For if you live according to the flesh, you shall die. But if you through the Spirit mortify the deeds of the body, you shall live.
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.
For you have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption by which we cry, Abba, Father!
The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God.
And if we are children, then we are heirs; heirs of God and joint-heirs with Christ; so that if we suffer with Him, we may also be glorified together.
For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory to be revealed in us.
For the earnest expectation of the creation waits for the manifestation of the sons of God.
For the creation was not willingly subjected to vanity, but because of Him who subjected it on hope
that the creation itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God.
And we know that the whole creation groans and travails in pain together until now.
And not only so, but ourselves also, who have the firstfruit of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, awaiting adoption, the redemption of our body.
For we are saved by hope. But hope that is seen is not hope; for what anyone sees, why does he also hope for it?
But if we hope for that which we do not see, then we wait for it with patience.
Likewise the Spirit also helps our infirmities. For we do not know what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
And He searching the hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because He makes intercession for the saints according to the will of God.
And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose.
For whom He foreknew, He also predestinated to be conformed to the image of His Son, for Him to be the First-born among many brothers.
But whom He predestinated, these He also called; and whom He called, those He also justified. And whom He justified, these He also glorified.
What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
Truly He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?
Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God who justifies.
Who is he condemning? It is Christ who has died, but rather also who is raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
As it is written, "For Your sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep of slaughter."
But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.