And it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag,
it came to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes torn, and earth upon his head. And so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the ground, and did obeisance.
And David said to him, From where did thou come? And he said to him, I escaped out of the camp of Israel.
And David said to him, How did the matter go? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead, and Saul and Jonathan his son are also dead.
And David said to the young man who told him, How do thou know that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?
And the young man who told him said, As I happened by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning upon his spear, and, lo, the chariots and the horsemen followed close after him.
And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. And I answered, Here I am.
And he said to me, Who are thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite.
And he said to me, Stand, I pray thee, beside me, and kill me, for anguish has taken hold of me, because my life is yet whole in me.
So I stood beside him and killed him, because I was sure that he could not live after he was fallen. And I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them here to my lord.
Then David took hold on his clothes, and tore them, and likewise all the men who were with him.
And they mourned, and wept, and fasted until evening, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Jehovah, and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword.
And David said to the young man who told him, From where are thou? And he answered, I am the son of a sojourner, an Amalekite.
And David said to him, Why were thou not afraid to put forth thy hand to destroy Jehovah's anointed?
And David called one of the young men, and said, Go near, and fall upon him. And he smote him so that he died.
And David said to him, Thy blood be upon thy head, for thy mouth has testified against thee, saying, I have slain Jehovah's anointed.
And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son
(and he bade them teach the sons of Judah the song of the bow; behold, it is written in the book of Jashar):
Thy glory, O Israel, is slain upon thy high places! How are the mighty fallen!
Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain upon you, neither fields of offerings, for there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, not anointed with oil.
From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty.
Saul and Jonathan, men who were loved and pleasant, undivided; comely in their lives, and undivided in their death; swifter than eagles, they were stronger than lions.
Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you delicately in scarlet, who put ornaments of gold upon your apparel.
How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain upon thy high places.
I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant thou have been to me. Thy love to me was wonderful, exceeding the love of women.
How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!