Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whoever goes astray by it is not wise.
The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion; whoever stirs him up to anger sins against his own soul.
It is an honor for a man to cease from strife, but every fool exposes himself.
The lazy one will not plow; after the autumn he shall beg in harvest and have nothing.
Wisdom in the heart of man is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out.
Most men will proclaim each his own goodness, but a faithful man who can find?
The just walks in his integrity; his sons are blessed after him.
A king who sits in the throne of judgment scatters away all evil with his eyes.
Who can say, I have made my heart clean; I am pure from my sin?
Different kinds of weights, different kinds of measures, both are hateful to the LORD.
Even a child is known by his own doings, whether his work is pure and whether it is right.
The hearing ear and the seeing eye, the LORD has made both of them.
Do not love sleep, lest you come to poverty; open your eyes and you shall be satisfied with bread.
It is bad! Bad, says the buyer; but when it is left to him, then he boasts.
There is gold and a multitude of rubies; but the lips of knowledge are a rare jewel.
Take the garment of him who is surety for a stranger; and take a pledge from him for strangers.
Bread of deceit is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.
Purposes are established by counsel; and with good advice make war.
A gossip is a revealer of secrets; so do not mix with him who flatters with his lips.
Whoever curses his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in deep darkness.
An inheritance gotten hastily in the beginning, even the end of it shall not be blessed.
Do not say, I will repay evil; wait on the LORD, and He will save you.
Different kinds of weights are hateful to the LORD, and a false balance is not good.
Man's steps are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his own way?
It is a snare to a man to say rashly, A holy thing, and afterward vows to ask about it.
A wise king scatters the wicked and brings the wheel over them.
The spirit of man is the lamp of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly.
Mercy and truth preserve the king; and his throne is upheld by mercy.
The glory of young men is their strength; and the beauty of old men is the gray head.
The stripes of a wound cleanses away evil, and strokes the inward parts of the belly.