And David called together all the rulers of Israel, the rulers of tribes and the rulers of the courses who waited upon the king,—and the rulers of thousands and the rulers of hundreds, and the rulers over all the possessions and substance that belonged to the king and to his sons, with the courtiers and the heroes, even every hero of valour, unto Jerusalem.
Then David the king rose up on his feet, and said, Hear me, my brethren and my people,—As for me, it was near my heart, to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, and for the footstool of our God, and I made ready to build.
But, God, said to me, Thou shalt not build a house for my Name,—for, a man of war, thou art, and, blood, hast thou shed.
Howbeit Yahweh, God of Israel, made choice of me, out of all of the house of my father, to become king over Israel unto times age-abiding, for, of Judah, had he made choice to be chief ruler, and, in the house of Judah, the house of my father,—and, among the sons of my father, with me, was he well-pleased, to make me king over all Israel;
and, from among all my sons,—for, many sons, hath Yahweh given me,—he hath made choice of Solomon my son, to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of Yahweh, over Israel.
And he said unto am, Solomon thy son—he, shall build my house, and my courts,—for I have made choice of him that he may be my son, and that, I, may be his father.
So will I establish his kingdom, unto times age-abiding,—if he be strong, to do my commandments and my regulations, as at this day.
Now, therefore, in the eyes of all Israel—the convocation of Yahweh, and in the ears of our God, Observe and seek all the commandments of Yahweh your God,—to the end that ye may possess the good land,—and suffer your sons after you to inherit it, unto times age-abiding.
Thou, therefore, Solomon my son, Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing soul, for, all hearts, doth Yahweh search, and, every devised purpose, doth he understand,—If thou seek him, He will be found of thee, but, if thou forsake him, He will cast thee off for ever.
See! now, that, Yahweh, hath made choice of thee, to build a house for a sanctuary—be strong and do!
Then gave David unto Solomon his son, the plan of the porch, and the recesses thereof, and the treasuries thereof, and the upper rooms thereof, and the inner chambers thereof, and the recess for the propitiatory;
and the plan of all which had come by the spirit to be with him, for the courts of the house of Yahweh, and for all the rooms round about,—for the treasuries of the house of God, and for the treasuries of hallowed things;
and for the courses of the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of Yahweh,—and for all the utensils of the service of the house of Yahweh:
of gold, by weight, for the gold, for all manner of utensils for each several service,—for all manner of utensils of silver, by weight, for all manner of utensils for each several service;
and a weight, for the lampstands of gold, and their lamps of gold, by the weight of each several lampstand, and the lamps thereof,—and for the lampstands of silver by weight, for each lampstand and the lamps thereof, according to the service of each several lampstand.
And the gold [gave he] by weight for the tables for setting in array, for each several table,—and silver, for the tables of silver;
and the fleshhooks and the bowls and the cups, pure gold,—and for the goblets of gold, by weight for each several goblet, and for the goblets of silver, by weight for each several goblet;
and, for the altar of incense, refined gold, by weight,—and, for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubim, gold, for them that were spreading out, and covering the ark of the covenant of Yahweh:—
the whole in writing, From the hand of Yahweh upon me, to give understanding,—all the works of the pattern.
Then said David, unto Solomon his son, Be strong and bold, and act, thou mayest not fear nor be dismayed,—for, Yahweh, God, my God, will be with thee, he will not let thee go, neither will he forsake thee, until thou hast finished all the work of the service of the house of Yahweh.
And there are the courses of the priests and the Levites, for all the service of the house of God,—and, with thee, in all manner of work, is every willing, skilful man for any service, also the rulers and all the people, for all thine affairs.