Let us then fear, since a promise is still left us of entering into his rest, lest any one of you should appear to fail of obtaining it.
For to us were glad tidings addressed, as well as to them; but the word which was heard did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard it.
For we who believed enter into the rest, as he hath said: "So I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest;" although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For he hath spoken in a certain place of the seventh day thus: "And God rested on the seventh day from all his works;"
and in this place again: "They shall not enter into my rest."
Since then it still remaineth for some to enter into it, and they to whom the glad tidings of it were first brought did not enter in because of disobedience,
he again appointeth a certain day, "To-day"—saying in David so long a time after, as hath before been said—"To-day, if ye hear his voice, harden not your hearts."
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not after this be speaking of another day.
There remaineth therefore a sabbath-rest to the people of God.
For he that hath entered into his rest, hath himself rested from his works, as God did from his own.
Let us then strive to enter into that rest, that no one may fall, as a like example of disobedience.
For the word of God is living, and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, both the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart;
and there is no creature that is not manifest in his sight; but all things are naked and laid open to the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
Since, then, we have a great high-priest, who hath passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
For we have not a high-priest who cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but one who hath in all points been tempted as we are, without sin.
Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.