Moreouer Elihu answered, and saide,
Heare my wordes, ye wise men, and hearken vnto me, ye that haue knowledge.
For the eare tryeth the words, as the mouth tasteth meate.
Let vs seeke iudgement among vs, and let vs knowe among our selues what is good.
For Iob hath saide, I am righteous, and God hath taken away my iudgement.
Should I lye in my right? my wound of the arrowe is grieuous without my sinne.
What man is like Iob, that drinketh scornfulnesse like water?
Which goeth in the companie of them that worke iniquitie, and walketh with wicked men?
For he hath saide, It profiteth a man nothing that he should walke with God.
Therefore hearken vnto me, ye men of wisedome, God forbid that wickednesse should be in God, and iniquitie in the Almightie.
For he will render vnto man according to his worke, and cause euery one to finde according to his way.
And certainely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almightie peruert iudgement.
Whome hath he appointed ouer the earth beside him selfe? or who hath placed the whole worlde?
If he set his heart vpon man, and gather vnto him selfe his spirit and his breath,
All flesh shall perish together, and man shall returne vnto dust.
And if thou hast vnderstanding, heare this and hearken to the voyce of my wordes.
Shal he that hateth iudgement, gouerne? and wilt thou iudge him wicked that is most iust?
Wilt thou say vnto a King, Thou art wicked? or to princes, Ye are vngodly?
How much lesse to him that accepteth not the persons of princes, and regardeth not the rich, more then the poore? for they be all the worke of his handes.
They shall die suddenly, and the people shalbe troubled at midnight, and they shall passe foorth and take away the mightie without hand.
For his eyes are vpon the wayes of man, and he seeth all his goings.
There is no darkenesse nor shadowe of death, that the workers of iniquitie might be hid therein.
For he will not lay on man so much, that he should enter into iudgement with God.
He shall breake the mightie without seeking, and shall set vp other in their stead.
Therefore shall he declare their works: he shall turne the night, and they shalbe destroyed.
He striketh them as wicked men in the places of the seers,
Because they haue turned backe from him, and would not consider all his wayes:
So that they haue caused the voyce of the poore to come vnto him, and he hath heard the cry of the afflicted.
And when he giueth quietnesse, who can make trouble? and when he hideth his face, who can beholde him, whether it be vpon nations, or vpon a man onely?
Because the hypocrite doeth reigne, and because the people are snared.
Surely it appertaineth vnto God to say, I haue pardoned, I will not destroy.
But if I see not, teach thou me: if I haue done wickedly, I will doe no more.
Wil he performe the thing through thee? for thou hast reproued it, because that thou hast chosen, and not I. now speake what thou knowest.
Let men of vnderstanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken vnto me.
Iob hath not spoken of knowledge, neyther were his wordes according to wisedome.
I desire that Iob may be tryed, vnto the ende touching the answeres for wicked men.
For he addeth rebellion vnto his sinne: he clappeth his handes among vs, and multiplieth his wordes against God.