But take heed that ye do not your righteousness before men, to be seen by them; otherwise ye have no reward with your Father who is in heaven.
Therefore when thou doest alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Truly do I say to you, They have received their reward.
But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth;
that thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, will reward thee.
And when ye pray, ye shall not be as the hypocrites are; for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Truly do I say to you, They have received their reward.
But do thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and, when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, will reward thee.
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do; for they think that they shall be heard for the multitude of their words.
Be not ye therefore like them; for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.
After this manner therefore pray ye:—Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name;
thy kingdom come; thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven;
give us this day our daily bread;
and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors;
and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you;
but if ye do not forgive men, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Moreover, when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance; for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men to be fasting. Truly do I say to you, They have received their reward.
But do thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head, and wash thy face;
that thou appear not to men to be fasting, but to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, will reward thee.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where the moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and steal;
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumeth, and where thieves do not break through nor steal.
For where thy treasure is, there will thy heart be also.
The eye is the lamp of the body. If thine eye he clear, thy whole body will be in light;
but if thine eye be disordered, thy whole body will be in darkness. If then the light that is within thee is darkness, how great that darkness!
No one can serve two masters; for either he will hate one, and love the other; or else he will cleave to one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
Therefore I say to you, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than food, and the body than raiment?
Behold the birds of the air, that they sow not, nor reap, nor gather into barns; and your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are not ye of much greater value than they?
But who of you by anxious thought can add to his life one cubit?
And why are ye anxious about raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin;
and yet I say to you, that not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed like one of these.
And if God so clothes the herbage of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into an oven, will he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?
Therefore be not anxious, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we he clothed?
For after all these things do the gentiles seek; for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
But seek first his kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things will also be given you.
Be not then anxious about the morrow; for the morrow will be anxious about itself. Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.