And Solomon was thirteen years building his own house. And he finished all his house.
And he built the house of the forest of Lebanon. Its length was a hundred cubits, and its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits, on four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams on the pillars.
And it was covered with cedar above on the beams that lay on forty-five pillars, fifteen in a row.
And windows were in three rows, and light was against light in three rows.
And all the doors and posts were square, with the windows. And the front of a window was against a window in three rows.
And he made a porch of pillars. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth thirty cubits. And the porch was before them, and the pillars and the roof were over them.
And he made a porch of the throne where he judged, the porch of judgment. And it was covered with cedar from floor to floor.
As to his house where he lived, the other court was within the porch, as this work was. Solomon also made a house for Pharaoh's daughter, whom he had taken, like this porch.
All these were of costly stones, according to the measures of hewn stones, sawed with saws, inside and out, even from the foundation to the coping, and so on the outside toward the great court.
And the foundation was of costly stones, huge stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits.
And above were costly stones, according to the measures of hewn stone and cedar.
And the great court all around was with three rows of hewn stone, and a row of cedar beams, both for the inner court of the house of the LORD, and for the porch of the house.
And king Solomon sent and brought Hiram out of Tyre.
He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in bronze. And he was filled with wisdom and understanding, and cunning to work all works in bronze. And he came to king Solomon and did all his work.
For he cast two pillars of bronze, eighteen cubits was the height of the one pillar. And a line of twelve cubits went around the second pillar.
And he made two capitals of melted bronze to set on the tops of the pillars. The height of the one capital was five cubits, and the height of the other capital five cubits.
He made gratings, grating work with twisted threads of chain-work, for the capitals on the top of the pillars; seven for the one capital, and seven for the other capital.
And he made the pillars. And two rows were all around on the one grating, to cover the capitals on the top with the pomegranates. And so he did for the other capital.
And the capitals on the top of the pillars in the porch were lily-work, four cubits.
And the capitals on the two pillars had pomegranates on the upper part, over against the belly which was by the grating; and the pomegranates were two hundred in rows all around on the other capital.
And he set up the pillars in the porch of the temple. And he set up the right pillar and called its name, Jachin. And he set up the left pillar, and called its name, Boaz.
And on the top of the pillars was lily-work. So the work of the pillars was finished.
And he made a molten sea, ten cubits from brim to brim, all around it. And its height was five cubits, and a line of thirty cubits went around it.
And under its brim were gourds, going around it, ten by the cubit, going all around the sea. The gourds were cast in two rows when it was cast.
It stood on twelve oxen, three facing the north, and three facing the west, and three facing the south, and three facing the east. The sea was set on top of them, and all their hinder parts were inward.
And it was a handbreadth thick, and its brim was fashioned like the brim of a cup, with a bud of a lily. It contained two thousand baths.
And he made ten bases of bronze, four cubits the length of the one base, and four cubits its breadth, and three cubits its height.
And the work of the bases was this way: they had borders, and the borders were between the stays.
And on the borders that were between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubs. And a pedestal was on the stays above. And beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging-work.
And the one base had four bronze wheels and axles of bronze. And its four feet were supports to them; under the basin were casted supports with wreaths at each side.
And its mouth within and above the capital was a cubit. And its mouth was round like the work of a pedestal, a cubit and half of the cubit. And also on its mouth were carvings; and their borders were square, not round.
And under the borders were four wheels. And the axletrees of the wheels were in the base. And the height of a wheel was a cubit and a half.
And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel, their axletrees, and their rims, and their hub, and their spokes, were all cast.
And there were four supports to the four corners of one base, and the supports were of the very base itself.
And in the top of the base was a round compass of a half a cubit high. And on the top of the base its sides and its borders were from it.
And he engraved cherubs, lions, and palm trees on the plates of its sides, and on its borders, as the place of each, with wreaths all around.
So he made the ten bases, one casting, one measure, one form was to them all.
And he made ten basins of bronze. One basin contained forty baths. The one basin was four cubits, one basin on the one base, to the ten bases.
And he put five bases on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house. And he set the sea on the right side of the house, eastward, across from the south.
And Hiram made the basins and the shovels and the bowls. So Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he made king Solomon for the house of the LORD.
Two pillars, and the bowls of the capitals on the top of the two pillars, and the two gratings to cover the two bowls of the capitals on the top of the pillars,
and the four hundred pomegranates for the two gratings; two rows of pomegranates for each grating, to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the face of the pillars,
and the ten bases, and ten basins on the bases,
and one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea,
and the pots, and the shovels, and the basins. All these vessels which Hiram made for king Solomon for the house of the LORD were of burnished bronze.
The king cast them in the plain of Jordan, in the thick soil of the ground between Succoth and Zarethan.
And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed because they were exceeding many; the weight of the bronze was not searched out.
And Solomon made all the vessels in the house of the LORD: the altar of gold, and the table of gold on which was the Bread of the Presence;
and the lampstands of pure gold, five on the right and five on the left, in front of the Holy of Holies, with the flowers and the lamps and the tongs of gold,
and the bowls, and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and the fire-pans of pure gold, and the hinges of gold for the doors of the inner house, the Holy of Holies, and for the doors of the house, the temple.
So all the work that king Solomon made for the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated: the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, he had put into the treasuries of the house of the LORD.