Brethren! if a man should even be overtaken in any fault, ye, the spiritual, be restoring such a one, in a spirit of meekness, looking to thyself, lest, even thou, be put to the test.
One another’s burdens, be ye bearing, and, so, fill up the law of the Christ.
For, if any one thinketh he is something, when he is, nothing, he deceiveth himself;
But, his own work, let each one be putting to the proof, and, then, for himself alone, the matter of boasting, shall he have, and not for some other,
For, each one, his own proper load, shall bear:—
Howbeit, let him who is being orally instructed in the word, have fellowship with him that is so instructing him, in all good things.
Be not deceiving yourselves! God, is not to be mocked; for, whatsoever a man soweth, the same, shall he also reap,—
Because, he that soweth into his own flesh, out of the flesh, shall reap corruption, whereas, he that soweth into the Spirit, out of the Spirit, shall reap age-abiding life.
And, in doing that which is honourable, let us not be fainthearted; for, in due season, we shall reap, if we faint not.
Hence, then, as we have opportunity, let us be working what is good, towards all,—but, especially, towards the family of the faith.
See! with what large letters, unto you, I have written, with my own hand:—
As many as are wishing to make a good show in flesh, the same, are compelling you to get circumcised,—only that, for the cross of Christ [Jesus], they may not be suffering persecution!
For, not even they who are getting circumcised, are, themselves, observing law,—but are wishing you to be circumcised, that, in your flesh, they may boast themselves.
With me, however, far be it! to be boasting, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ,—whereby, unto me, a world hath been crucified, and, I, unto a world;
For neither circumcision is anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation;—
And, as many as, by this rule, shall walk, peace be upon them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God.
For the rest, annoyances, unto me, let no one be offering; for, I, the brandmarks of Jesus, in my body, am bearing.
The favour of our Lord Jesus Christ, be with your spirit, brethren. Amen.