And it came to pass when men had begun to multiply on the face of the ground and daughters had been born to them,
that the sons of God saw the daughters of men! that they were, fair,—so they took to themselves wives of whomsoever they chose,
And Yahweh said—My spirit shall not rule in man to times age—abiding, for that, he also, is flesh,—Yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years.
The giants, were in the earth in those days, and also, after that, when the sons of God began to go in unto the daughters of men, and sons were born to them, the same, were the heroes that were from age-past times the men of renown.
Then Yahweh saw that great, was the wickedness of man in the earth, and that, every purpose of the devices of his heart, was only wicked all the day;
and it grieved Yahweh, that he had made man in the earth,—and he took sorrow unto his heart.
And Yahweh said—I must wipe off man whom I created from off the face of the ground, from man unto beast unto creeping thing, and unto the bird of the heavens,—for I am grieved that I made them.
But, Noah, had found favour in the eyes, of Yahweh.
These, are the generations of Noah, Noah, was, a righteous man blameless, in his generations,—with God, did Noah walk.
And Noah begat three sons,—Shem, Ham and Japheth.
And the earth corrupted itself before God,—and the earth was filled with violence,
And God beheld the earth, and lo! it had corrupted itself,—surely all flesh had corrupted its way, on the earth.
So God said unto Noah: the end of all flesh, hath come in before me, for, filled, is the earth with violence, because of them,—behold me, then, destroying them with the earth.
Make for thee an ark of timbers of gopher, rooms, shalt thou make with the ark,—and thou shalt cover it within and without with pitch.
And, this, is how thou shalt make it,—three hundred cubits, the length of the ark, fifty cubits, the breadth thereof, and thirty cubits the height thereof.
A place for light, shalt thou make to the ark and to a cubit, shalt thou finish it upwards, and the opening of the ark—in the side thereof, shalt thou put,—with lower, second and third stories, shalt thou make it.
And, I, behold me! bringing in the flood—even waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh wherein is the spirit of life, from under the heavens,—everything that is in the earth, shall cease to breathe:
therefore will I establish my covenant with thee,—and thou shalt enter into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons’ wives, with thee.
Moreover of all the living creatures of all flesh—two of each, shalt thou bring into the ark to keep alive with thee,—male and female, shall they be.
Of the bird after its kind and of the beast after its kind, [and] of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of each, shall come in unto thee. for keeping alive.
But thou, take to thee of all food that is eaten, and gather it unto thee,—and it shall be for thee and for them for food.
And Noah did [so],—according to all that God commanded him, so did he.