And, when they drew near unto Jerusalem, and came unto Bethphage, unto the Mount of Olives, then, Jesus sent forth two disciples;
saying unto them—Be going into the village that is over against you, and, straightway, ye shall find an ass, bound, and a colt with her,—loose them, and lead them unto me.
And, if anyone, unto you, say aught, ye shall say—Their Lord, hath, need,—and, straightway, he will send them.
But, this, hath come to pass, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken through the prophet, saying:
Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Lo! thy King, is coming unto thee, meek and mounted upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of a toiling ass.
And the disciples, went, and did as Jesus directed them;
and led the ass and the colt, and laid upon them their garments, and he took his seat upon them.
And, the chief multitude, spread their own mantles in the way, and, others, were cutting off young branches from the trees, and spreading them in the way;
and the multitudes, they who were going before him and they who were following after, were crying aloud, saying—Hosanna! to the Son of David, Blessed is he that is coming in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest.
And, when he entered into Jerusalem, all the city was startled, saying—Who is this?
And, the multitudes, were saying—This, is the prophet Jesus,—He from Nazareth of Galilee.
And Jesus entered into the temple, and cast out all who were selling and buying in the temple,—and, the tables of the money-changers, he overthrew, and the seats of them who were selling doves;
and saith unto them—It is written, My house, a house of prayer, shall be called; but, ye, are making it, A den of robbers!
And there came unto him blind and lame, in the temple, and he cured them.
But the Chief-priests and the Scribes, seeing, the marvels that he wrought, and the boys who were crying aloud in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the Son of David! were greatly displeased;
and said unto him—Hearest thou what these are saying? And, Jesus, saith unto them—Yea: Have ye never read, Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings, hast thou prepared praise?
And, leaving them behind, he went forth outside the city into Bethany, and spent the night there.
And, early, returning into the city, he hungered;
and, seeing one fig-tree by the way, he came up to it, and nothing, found he thereon, save leaves only,—and he saith unto it—No more, from thee, let fruit spring forth, unto times age-abiding,—and the fig-tree, instantly withered away.
And the disciples, seeing it, marvelled, saying—How instantly, did the fig-tree wither away.
And Jesus, answering, said unto them—Verily, I say unto you, If ye have faith, and do not doubt, not only, this of the fig-tree, shall ye do,—but, even if, unto this mountain, ye shall say, Be lifted up, and be cast into the sea, it shall be done.
And, all things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive.
And, when he, entered, the temple, the Chief-priests and the Elders of the people, came unto him as he was teaching, saying, By what authority, these things, art thou doing? and, who, to thee, gave, this authority?
And, making answer, Jesus said unto them—I also, will ask, you, one thing,—which if ye tell me, I also, will tell, you, by what authority, these things, I am doing:—
The immersion by John, whence was it? Of heaven, or of men? But, they, began to deliberate among themselves, saying—If we say, Of heaven; He will say unto us, Wherefore then did ye not believe him?
But, if we say, Of men, we fear the multitude, for, all, as a prophet, are holding John.
And, making answer to Jesus, they said—We know not. He also, said unto them—Neither do, I, tell, you, by what authority, these things, I am doing.
But how, to you, doth it seem? A man, had two sons: coming unto the first, he said, Son! go thy way, to-day, be working in the vineyard.
And, he, answering, said, I, sir! and went not;
And, coming unto the second, he spake, in like manner,—and, he, answering, said, I will not: afterwards, smitten with regret, he went.
Which of the two, did the will of the father? They say, The latter. Jesus saith unto them—Verily, I say unto you, the tax-collectors and the harlots, are going before you, into the kingdom of God;
For John came unto you, in a way of righteousness, and ye believed him not,—but, the tax-collectors and the harlots, believed him; and, ye, seeing it, were not even smitten with regret, afterwards, so as to believe him.
Another parable, hear ye:—A man there was, a householder, who planted a vineyard, and, a wall around it, placed, and digged in it a wine-vat, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen,—and left home.
And, when the season of fruits drew near, He sent forth his servants unto the husbandmen to receive his fruits.
And the husbandmen, taking his servants, one, indeed, they beat, and, another, slew,—and, another, stoned.
Again, sent he forth other servants, more than the first, and they did unto them, likewise.
Afterwards, however, he sent forth unto them his son, saying,—They will pay deference unto my son!
But, the husbandmen, seeing the son, said among themselves,—This, is, the heir: Come on! Let us slay him, and have his inheritance.
And, taking him, they cast him forth outside the vineyard,—and slew him.
When therefore the master of the vineyard shall come, what will he do unto those husbandmen?
They say unto him—Miserable men! Miserably, will he destroy them; and will let out, the vineyard, to other husbandmen, who will render unto him the fruits in their seasons.
Jesus saith unto them—Have ye, never, read in the Scriptures, A stone which the builders rejected, the same, hath become, head of the corner: From the Lord, hath this come to pass, and is marvellous in our eyes.
Wherefore I say unto you, The kingdom of God, will be taken away from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof:
[And, he that falleth on this stone, will be sorely bruised; but, on whomsoever it may fall, it will utterly destroy him.]
And the Chief-priests and the Pharisees, hearing his parables, took note, that, concerning them, he was speaking.
And, seeking to secure him, they feared the multitudes; since, for a prophet, were they holding him.