Let, as many as are servants under a yoke, be counting, their own masters, worthy, of all honour, lest, the name of God and the teaching, be defamed.
They, however, that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are, brethren but, the more, be doing them service, because, believing and beloved, are they who, from the good workmanship, receive advantage. These things, be teaching, and exhorting:—
If anyone doth otherwise teach, and doth not adhere to healthful discourses—those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the teaching that is, according to godliness,
He is beclouded, knowing, nothing, rightly, but is diseased about questionings, and word-battles—out of which spring envy, strife, defamations, wicked surmising,
incessant quarrellings of men wholly corrupt in their mind and bereft of the truth,—supposing godliness to be, a means of gain!
Now it is a great means of gain—godliness, with a sufficiency of one’s own;
For, nothing, brought we into the world, neither, to take anything out, are we able;—
And, having sustenance and covering, we shall be content;
But, they who are determined to be rich, fall into temptation, and a snare, and many foolish and hurtful covetings, the which, sink men into ruin and destruction,—
For, a root of all the vices, is the love of money, which, some, being eager for, have been seduced from the faith, and have pierced, themselves, about with many pangs.
But, thou, O man of God! from these things, flee! and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, meekness;
Be contesting the noble contest of the faith,—lay hold of the age-abiding life—unto which thou wast called, and didst make the noble confession before many witnesses.
I charge thee, before God, who engendereth life in all things, and Christ Jesus, who, before Pontius Pilate, witnessed the noble confession,
That thou keep the commandment without spot, free from reproach, until the forthshining of our Lord Jesus Christ—
Which, in its own fit times, the happy and only Potentate will shew—the King of them that reign, and Lord of them that wield lordship,
Who alone hath immortality, dwelling in light unapproachable,—Whom no man hath seen—nor can see: unto whom, be honour and might age-abiding. Amen.
Upon them who are rich in the present age, lay thou charge—not to be high-minded, nor to have set their hope on, riches’, uncertainty,—but on God, who offereth us all things richly for enjoying,
To be doing good, to be rich in noble works, to be, generous in giving, ready for fellowship,—
Treasuring up for themselves a good foundation for the future, that they may lay hold on the life [which is life] indeed.
O Timothy! that which hath been entrusted, do thou guard, avoiding the profane pratings and oppositions of falsely named knowledge,—
Which, some professing, concerning the faith, have missed the mark! Favour be with you.