Hear, therefore, my discourse, I pray thee, O Job! And attend unto all my words!
Behold, I am opening my mouth; My tongue is now speaking in my palate.
My words shall be in the uprightness of my heart; My lips shall utter knowledge purely.
The spirit of God made me, And the breath of the Almighty gave me life.
If thou art able, answer me; Set thyself in array against me; stand up!
Behold, I, like thee, am a creature of God; I also was formed of clay.
Behold, my terror cannot dismay thee, Nor can my greatness be heavy upon thee.
Surely thou hast said in my hearing, I have heard the sound of thy words:
"I am pure, and without transgression; I am clean, and there is no iniquity in me.
Behold, He seeketh causes of hostility against me; He regardeth me as his enemy.
He putteth my feet in the stocks; He watcheth all my paths."
Behold, in this thou art not right; I will answer thee; For God is greater than man.
Why dost thou contend with Him? For he giveth no account of any of his doings.
For God speaketh once, Yea, twice, when man regardeth it not.
In a dream, in a vision of the night, When deep sleep falleth upon men, In slumber upon the bed;
Then openeth he the ears of men, And sealeth up for them admonition;
That he may turn man from his purpose, And hide pride from man.
Thus he saveth him from the pit, Yea, his life from perishing by the sword.
He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, And with a continual agitation of his bones,
So that his mouth abhorreth bread, And his taste the choicest food;
His flesh is consumed, that it cannot be seen, And his bones, that were invisible, are naked;
Yea, his soul draweth near to the pit, And his life to the destroyers.
But if there be with him a messenger, An interpreter, one of a thousand, Who may show unto man his duty,
Then will God be gracious to him, and say, "Save him from going down to the pit: I have found a ransom."
His flesh shall became fresher than a child’s; He shall return to the days of his youth.
He shall pray to God, and he will be favorable to him, And permit him to see his face with joy, And restore unto man his righteousness.
He shall sing among men, and say, "I sinned; I acted perversely; Yet hath he not requited me for it:
He hath delivered me from going down to the pit, And my life beholdeth the light."
Lo! all these things doeth God Time after time with man,
That he may bring him back from the pit, That he may enjoy the light of the living.
Mark well, O Job! hearken to me! Keep silence, and I will speak.
Yet if thou hast any thing to say, answer me! Speak! for I desire to pronounce thee innocent.
But if not, do thou listen to me! Keep silence, and I will teach thee wisdom!