And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, to any man, When there is a discharge from his flesh; it is unclean because of his discharge.
And this is his uncleanness in his discharge, if his flesh has run with his discharge, or his flesh has ceased from his discharge; it is his uncleanness.
Every bed on which the one discharging lies shall be unclean. And every thing on which he sits shall be unclean.
And anyone who touches his bed shall wash his garments, and shall bathe with water, and shall be unclean until the evening.
And he who sits on a thing on which he who discharges sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be unclean until the evening.
And he that touches the flesh of him who discharges shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And if he who discharges spits on a clean one, then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And every saddle on which he who discharges rides shall be unclean.
And whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening. And the one carrying those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And whomever he who discharges touches, and has not rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And the earthen vessel that he who discharges touches shall be broken; and every wooden vessel shall be rinsed in water.
And when he who discharges is cleansed of his discharge, then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes. And he shall bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.
And on the eighth day he shall take to himself two turtle doves, or two young doves, and come before Jehovah to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation and give them to the priest.
And the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering. And the priest shall atone for him before Jehovah for his discharge.
And if any man's semen goes out from him, then he shall bathe all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And every garment, and every skin on which the semen is, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the evening.
And a woman with whom a man lies with an emission of semen shall bathe with water, and be unclean until the evening.
And if a woman's discharge in her flesh is a flow of blood, she shall be in her impurity seven days; and whoever touches her shall be unclean until the evening.
And anything on which she lies in her impurity shall be unclean; and anything on which she sits shall be unclean.
And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And whoever touches anything on which she sits shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And if it is on the bed, or on anything on which she sits when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the evening.
And if any man lies with her, and her impurity is on him, he shall be unclean seven days, and every bed on which he lies shall be unclean.
And if a woman has a discharge of her blood many days outside the time of her impurity, or if she has a discharge beyond the time of her impurity, all the days of the flow of her uncleanness, she shall be as in the days of her impurity; she is unclean.
Every bed on which she lies all the days of her discharge shall be to her as the bed of her impurity to her; and everything on which she sits shall be unclean as the uncleanness of her impurity.
And whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening.
And if she is cleansed of her discharge, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
And on the eighth day she shall take to herself two turtledoves, or two young doves, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the priests shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall atone for her before Jehovah for the discharge of her uncleanness.
So you shall separate the sons of Israel from their uncleanness, and they shall not die in their uncleanness, when they defile My tabernacle that is in their midst.
This is the law of him that discharges, and of him from whom semen flows out, for uncleanness by it;
and of her who is menstruating in her impurity, and of him from whom the discharge flows; of a male or of a female, and of a man who lies with an unclean woman.