Happy is the husband of a good wife;
And the number of his days shall be twofold.

A brave woman rejoices her husband;
And he shall fulfil his years in peace.

A good wife is a good portion:
She shall be given in the portion of such as fear the Lord.

Whether a man be rich or poor,
A good heart makes  at all times a cheerful countenance.

Of three things my heart was afraid;
And concerning the fourth  kind I made supplication:
The slander of a city, and the assembly of a multitude, and a false accusation:
All these are more grievous than death.

A grief of heart and sorrow is a woman that is jealous of another  woman,
And the scourge of a tongue communicating to all.

A wicked woman is as  a yoke of oxen shaken to and fro:
He that takes hold of her is as one that graspeth a scorpion.

A drunken woman causes  great wrath;
And she will not cover her own shame.

The whoredom of a woman is in the lifting up of her eyes;
And it shall be known by her eyelids.

Keep strict watch on a headstrong daughter,
Lest she find liberty for herself, and use it.

Look well after an impudent eye;
And marvel not if it trespass against you.

She will open her mouth, as a thirsty traveller,
And drink of every water that is near:
At every post will she sit down,
And open her quiver against any  arrow.

The grace of a wife will delight her husband;
And her knowledge will fatten his bones.

A silent woman is a gift of the Lord;
And there is nothing so much worth as a well-instructed soul.

A shamefast woman is grace upon grace;
And there is no  price worthy of a continent soul.

As the sun when it arises in the highest places of the Lord,
So is the beauty of a good wife in the ordering of  a man’s house.

As the lamp that shineth upon the holy candlestick,
So is the beauty of the face in ripe age.

As the golden pillars are upon a base of silver,
So are beautiful feet with the breasts of one that is stedfast.


For two things my heart is grieved;
And for the third anger comes upon me:
A man of war that suffers for poverty;
And men of understanding that are counted as refuse:
One that turns back from righteousness to sin;
The Lord shall prepare him for the sword.

A merchant shall hardly keep himself from wrong doing;
And a huckster shall not be acquitted of sin.
