And this is the law of the trespass offering. It is most holy.
In the place where they kill the burnt offering they shall kill the trespass offering, and the blood of it he shall sprinkle upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer from it all the fat of it. He shall take away the fat tail, and the fat that covers the innards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made by fire to Jehovah. It is a trespass offering.
Every male among the priests shall eat of it. It shall be eaten in a holy place; it is most holy.
As is the sin offering, so is the trespass offering, there is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with it, he shall have it.
And the priest who offers any man's burnt offering, even the priest shall have to himself the skin of the burnt offering which he has offered.
And every meal offering that is baked in the oven, and all that is dressed in the frying-pan, and on the baking-pan, shall be the priest's who offers it.
And every meal offering, mingled with oil, or dry, all the sons of Aaron shall have, one as well as another.
And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he shall offer to Jehovah.
If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of fine flour soaked.
He shall offer his oblation with the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving with cakes of leavened bread.
And from it he shall offer one out of each oblation for a heave offering to Jehovah. It shall be the priest's who sprinkles the blood of the peace offerings.
And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his oblation; he shall not leave any of it until the morning.
But if the sacrifice of his oblation be a vow, or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his sacrifice, and on the morrow that which remains of it shall be eaten,
but that which remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire.
And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings is eaten on the third day, it shall not be accepted, nor shall it be imputed to him who offers it. It shall be an abomination, and the soul that eats of it shall bear his iniquity.
And the flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire. And as for the flesh, every clean man shall eat of it,
but the soul that eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, that pertain to Jehovah, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
And when a soul shall touch any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man, or an unclean beast, or any unclean abomination, and eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which pertain to Jehovah, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Ye shall eat no fat, of ox, or sheep, or goat.
And the fat of that which dies of itself, and the fat of that which is torn of beasts, may be used for any other service, but ye shall certainly not eat of it.
For whoever eats the fat of the beast, of which men offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah, even the soul that eats it shall be cut off from his people.
And ye shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of bird or of beast, in any of your dwellings.
Whoever it is who eats any blood, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, He who offers the sacrifice of his peace offerings to Jehovah shall bring his oblation to Jehovah out of the sacrifice of his peace offerings.
His own hands shall bring the offerings of Jehovah made by fire. He shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be waved for a wave offering before Jehovah.
And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar, but the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'.
And the right thigh ye shall give to the priest for a heave offering out of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
He among the sons of Aaron who offers the blood of the peace offerings, and the fat, shall have the right thigh for a portion.
For I have taken the wave-breast and the heave-thigh from the sons of Israel out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as a portion forever from the sons of Israel.
This is the anointing-portion of Aaron, and the anointing-portion of his sons, out of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister to Jehovah in the priest's office,
which Jehovah commanded to be given them from the sons of Israel, in the day that he anointed them. It is a portion forever throughout their generations.
This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meal offering, and of the sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the consecration, and of the sacrifice of peace offerings,
which Jehovah commanded Moses at mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the sons of Israel to offer their oblations to Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai.