AND Jesus continuing his discourse, spake again to them in parables, saying,
The kingdom of heaven is like to a certain king, who made a marriage-feast for his son:
and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the entertainment: and they would not come.
Again he sent other servants, saying, Tell those who have been invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and the fatlings are killed, and all things are ready; come unto the marriage-feast.
But they gave themselves no concern about it, and went their several ways, one to his own farm, and another to his traffick:
And the rest seizing his servants, insulted and slew them.
Then the king, when he heard it, was incensed: and sending out his armies, destroyed these murderers, and burnt down their city.
Then he said to his servants, The wedding entertainment indeed is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy:
go therefore into the thoroughfares of the roads, and as many as ye find, invite to the banquet.
So these servants going out into the roads, collected all, as many as they found, both bad and good; and the wedding feast was fully furnished with guests.
Then the king coming in to look around on the guests, saw there a man who had not put on the wedding garment:
and he saith to him, Friend, how came thou in here, not having the garment provided for the marriage feast? And he was speechless.
Then said the king to the servants, Bind his feet and hands, and take him away, and cast him into the darkness, which is without; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
For many are called, but few elect.
Then went the Pharisees, and took counsel together how they might lay a snare to entrap him in his discourse.
And they sent to him their disciples, with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God with veracity; and carest for no man, for thou regardest not the person of men:
tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar, or not?
But Jesus knew their wicked design, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?
Shew me the money for the tribute; and they brought him a denarius.
And he saith unto them, Whose figure is this and inscription?
They say unto him, Caesar’s. Then saith he to them, Render therefore to Caesar, the things which are Caesar’s; and to God, the things which are God’s.
And when they heard him, they marvelled, and leaving him, went away.
On the same day the Sadducees came to him, who say, that there is no resurrection, and they put a question to him,
saying, Master, Moses said, “If a man die having no children, his brother in right of affinity shall marry his wife, and raise up seed for his brother.”
Now there were with us seven brothers; and the first marrying, died, and had no offspring, and left his wife to his brother;
likewise the second also; then the third; so on to the seven.
Last of all the woman died also.
In the resurrection therefore, whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had her.
Jesus then answering, said unto them, Ye are in an error, from not knowing the Scriptures, and the power of God.
For at the resurrection, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.
But with respect to the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read what was spoken to you of God, saying,
“I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?” God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
And when the multitude heard it, they were amazingly struck with his doctrine.
But the Pharisees hearing that he had stopped the Sadducees’ mouths, they assembled together:
and one of them, a teacher of the law, put a question to him, to make trial of him, and said,
Master, which is the great commandment in the law?
Then Jesus said to him, “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.”
This is the first and great commandment.
And the second is like to it, “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.”
On these two commandments, the whole law and the prophets depend.
The Pharisees being then assembled, Jesus put a question to them,
saying, What think ye of the Messiah, whose son is he? They say unto him, David’s.
He saith unto them, How then doth David by the Spirit call him Lord? saying,
“The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit at my right hand, till I put thine enemies as a footstool for thy feet.”
If then David calleth him Lord, how is he his son?
And no man could answer him a word, neither durst any man, from that day, interrogate him any more.