And as he passed on, he saw a man blind from birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he would be born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God might be manifested in him.
I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night comes when no man can work.
When I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
Having said these things, he spat toward the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and rubbed the clay on the eyes of the blind man.
And he said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is translated, He who has been sent). Therefore he went and washed, and came seeing.
The neighbors therefore and those who saw him formerly, that he was blind, said, Is this not he who sits and begs?
Others said, He is this man, but others said, He is like him. That man said, I am.
They said to him therefore, How were thine eyes opened?
That man answered and said, A man called Jesus made clay, and rubbed on my eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. And after going and washing, I received sight.
Therefore they said to him, Where is that man? He says, I do not know.
They brought him to the Pharisees-the former blind man.
Now it was a sabbath when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received sight. And he said to them, He put clay upon my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
Therefore some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because he does not keep the sabbath. Other men said, How is a sinful man able to do such signs? And there was division among them.
They say again to the blind man, What do thou say about him, that he opened thine eyes? And he said, He is a prophet.
The Jews therefore did not believe about him, that he had been blind, and had received sight, until they called the parents of the man who had received sight.
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, whom ye say that he was born blind? How then does he now see?
And his parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind,
but how he now sees, we know not. Or who opened his eyes, we know not. He has maturity, ask him. He will speak for himself.
His parents spoke these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man confessed him as Christ, he should become excommunicated from the synagogue.
Because of this his parents said, He has maturity, ask him.
So they called the man who was blind, for a second time, and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is sinful.
That man therefore answered and said, If he is sinful, I know not. One thing I know, that being blind, now I see.
But again they said to him, What did he do to thee? How did he open thine eyes?
He answered them, I told you already, and ye did not listen. Why do ye want to hear it again? Do ye not also want to become his disciples?
They reviled him, and said, Thou are a disciple of that man, but we are disciples of Moses.
We know that God has spoken to Moses, but this man, we know not where he is from.
The man answered and said to them, For in this it is amazing, that ye know not where he is from, and yet he opened my eyes.
And we know that God does not listen to sinners, but if any man is a worshiper of God, and does his will, he listens to this man.
From the age, it was not heard that any man opened the eyes of a man who was born blind.
If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.
They answered and said to him, Thou were born entirely in sins, and thou teach us? And they cast him outside.
Jesus heard that they cast him outside. And having found him, he said to him, Do thou believe in the Son of God?
That man answered and said, And who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?
And Jesus said to him, Thou have both seen him, and he is that man who speaks with thee.
And he affirmed, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped him.
And Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, so that those not seeing might see, and those who see might become blind.
And those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and they said to him, Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them, If ye were blind, ye would have no sin, but now ye say, We see, therefore your sin remains.