And Benjamin fathered his first-born Bela; Ashbel, the second; and Aharah, the third;
Nohah, the fourth; and Rapha, the fifth.
And sons were born to Bela: Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,
and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
And these are the sons of Ehud; these are they, the heads of the fathers to the dwellers of Geba; and they exiled them to Manahath.
And Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he exiled them. And Ehud fathered Uzza and Ahihud.
And Shaharaim fathered sons in the country of Moab after he had sent them away. Hushim and Baara were his wives.
And by his wife Hodesh were Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,
and Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons, heads of the fathers.
And by Hushim, he had Abitub, and Elpaal.
The sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono and Lod, with their towns.
And Beriah and Shema were heads of the fathers to the dwellers of Aijalon, who drove away the dwellers of Gath;
and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,
and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,
and Michael, and Ispah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah,
and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber,
and Ishmerai, and Jezliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal;
and Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,
and Elienai, and Zilthai, and Eliel,
and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of Shimhi,
and Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,
and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
and Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah,
and Iphedeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak;
and Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
and Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, the sons of Jeroham.
These were heads of the fathers, by their generations, chiefs. These lived in Jerusalem.
And the father of Gibeon lived at Gibeon, whose wife's name was Maachah.
And his first son was Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher.
And Mikloth fathered Shimeah. And these also lived with their brothers in Jerusalem, across from them.
And Ner fathered Kish, and Kish fathered Saul. And Saul fathered Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal. And Meribbaal fathered Micah.
And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
And Ahaz fathered Jehoadah. And Jehoadah fathered Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza.
And Moza fathered Binea; Rapha was his son; Eleasah, his son; Azel, his son.
And to Azel were born six sons; and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
And the sons of Eshek his brother: his first-born Ulam; Jeush, the second; and Eliphelet, the third.
And the sons of Ulam were mighty men, treaders of the bow, and had many sons, and grandsons, a hundred and fifty. All these were the sons of Benjamin.