And he shewed me a pure ryver of water of lyfe clere as cristall: procedynge oute of the seate of God and of the lambe.
In the myddes of the strete of it and of ether syde of ye ryver was there wode of lyfe: which bare xii maner of frutes: and gave frute every moneth: and the leves of the wodde served to heale the people with all.
And there shalbe no more cursse but the seate of god and the lambe shalbe in it: and his servauntes shall serve him:
And shall se his face and his name shalbe in their forheddes.
And there shall be no nyght there and they nede no candle nether light of the sunne: for the lorde God geveth them light and they shall raygne for evermore.
And he sayde vnto me: these sayinges are faythfull and true. And the lorde god of saynctes and prophetes sent his angell to shewe vnto his servauntes the thynges which muste shortly be fulfylled.
Beholde I come shortly. Happy is he that kepeth the sayinge of ye prophesy of this boke.
I am Ihon which sawe these thynges and herde them. And when I had herde and sene I fell doune to worshippe before the fete of the angell which shewed me these thynges.
And he sayd vnto me: se thou do it not for I am thy feloweservaunt and the feloweservaunt of thy brethren the prophettes and of them which kepe the sayinges of this boke. But worshippe God.
And he sayde vnto me: seale not the sayinges of prophesy of this boke. For the tyme is at honde.
He that doeth evyl let him do evyl still: and he which is fylthy let him be fylthy still: and he that is righteous let him be more righteous: and he that is holy let him be more holy.
And beholde I come shortly and my rewarde with me to geve every man accordinge as his dedes shalbe.
I am Alpha and Omega the begynninge and the ende: the fyrst and the last.
Blessed are they that do hys commaundmentes that their power maye be in the tree of lyfe and maye entre in thorow the gates into the cite.
For without shalbe dogges and inchauters and whormongers and mortherers and ydolaters and whosoever loveth or makith lesynges.
I Iesus sent myne angell to testyfye vnto you these thynges in the congregacions. I am the rote and the generacion of David and the bright mornynge starre.
And the sprete and the bryde sayde come. And let him that heareth saye also come. And let him that is athyrst come. And let whosoever wyll take of the water of lyfe fre.
I testifye vnto every man that heareth the wordes of prophesy of thys boke. yf eny man shall adde vnto these thynges god shall adde vnto him the plages that are wrytten in this boke.
And yf eny man shall mynyshe of the wordes of ye boke of this prophesy god shall take a waye his parte out of the boke of lyfe and oute of ye holy citie and fro thoo thynge which are written in this boke.
He which testifyeth these thinges sayth: be it I come quyckly Amen. Even soo: come lorde Iesu.
The grace of oure lorde Iesu Christ be with you all. Amen.