AND I, brethren, have been unable to speak to you as unto spiritual men, but as to carnal, even as to babes in Christ.
And I have given you milk to drink, and not meat: for hitherto ye have not been capable of it, yea, even to the present moment ye are not capable of it.
For ye are still carnal: for since there are among you envy, and strife, and divisions, are ye not carnal, and walk as other men?
For when one saith, I am indeed of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye not carnal?
Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but the ministers through whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to each of us?
I have planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase.
So then neither is he that planteth any thing, nor he that watereth; but God who giveth the increase.
Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one: but every one shall receive his own reward according to his own labour.
For we are God’s fellowlabourers: ye are God’s husbandry, ye are God’s building.
According to the grace of God given unto me, as a skilful architect, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every one take heed how he buildeth upon it.
For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus the Messiah.
But if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, timbers, hay, stubble;
every man’s work shall be made manifest: for that day shall declare it, for it shall be laid open by fire; and the fire shall prove every man’s work of what sort it is.
If any man’s work which he hath built abide the trial, he shall receive a reward.
If any man’s work be burnt up, he shall suffer loss: but himself shall be saved; yet so as through the fire.
Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?
If any man prophane the temple of God, him will God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.
Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you thinketh himself a wise man in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise.
For the wisdom of this world is folly in the sight of God. For it is written, “He entangleth the wise in their own craftiness.”
And again, “The Lord knoweth the reasonings of the wise, that they are futile.”
Wherefore let no man glory in men. For all things are your’s;
whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all things are your’s;
and ye are Christ’s; and Christ is God’s.