Wine is, a scoffer, and strong drink, a brawler, every one therefore who erreth therein, is unwise.
The growl as of a young lion, is the dread inspired by a king, he that provoketh him, endangereth his own life.
Honour, hath the man who sitteth away from strife, but, any fool, may break through.
By reason of the autumn, a sluggard will not plough, therefore shall he beg in harvest, and there be nothing.
Deep water, is counsel in a man’s heart, but, a man of understanding, will draw it out.
A kind man one may call, a great man,—but, a faithful man, who can find?
As for a righteous man, walking in his integrity, how happy are his children after him!
A king sitting on the throne of judgment, scattereth, with his eyes, all wrong.
Who can say, I have cleansed my heart, I am pure from my sin?
Divers weights, and divers measures, an abomination to Yahweh, are they, both.
Even, by his doings, doth a youth make himself known, whether, pure and upright, be his work.
The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, Yahweh hath made them, both.
Do not love sleep, lest thou come to poverty, open thine eyes, be satisfied with bread.
Bad! bad! saith the buyer, but, going his way, then, he boasteth.
There are gold, and an abundance of corals, but, precious jewels, are the lips of knowledge.
Take his garment who is pledge for a stranger,—then, for a woman unknown, accept him as surety.
Sweet to a man, may be the bread of falsehood, but, afterward, shall his mouth be filled with gravel.
Plans—by counsel, shalt thou establish, and, with concerted measures, make thou war.
A revealer of secrets, is one who goeth about talebearing, therefore, with him who openeth his lips, shalt thou not have fellowship.
Whoso revileth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in deep darkness.
An inheritance hastily gotten at the beginning, the latter end thereof, shall not bring blessing.
Do not say, I will requite wrong! Wait thou for Yahweh that he may save thee.
An abomination to Yahweh, are divers weights, and, deceptive balances, are not good.
From Yahweh, are a man’s steps, a son of earth, then—how can he discern his way?
It is a snare to a man, that he should rashly cry Holy! and, after making vows, to reflect!
A wise king, winnoweth out the lawless, when he hath turned over them the wheel.
The lamp of Yahweh, is the spirit of a son of earth, searching all the chambers of the inner man.
Lovingkindness and faithfulness, will guard a king,—therefore should he support, with lovingkindness, his throne.
The beauty of young men, is their strength, and, the ornament of old men, a hoary head.
Blows that cut in, cleanse away wickedness, and, smitings, [enter] the chambers of the inner man.