And it happened in that year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, Hananiah the son of Azur the prophet, of Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of Jehovah, for the eyes of the priests and all the people, saying,
So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Within two years I will again bring into this place all the vessels of the house of Jehovah which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried them to Babylon.
And I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, with all the exiles of Judah who went into Babylon, says Jehovah. For I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Then the prophet Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people who stood in the house of Jehovah,
even the prophet Jeremiah said, Amen! May Jehovah do so ; may Jehovah confirm your words which you have prophesied, to bring again the vessels of the house of Jehovah, and all the exiles, from Babylon into this place.
But hear now this word that I speak in your ears and in the ears of all the people:
The prophets who have been before me and before you from antiquity prophesied against many lands and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of plague.
As for the prophet who prophesies of peace, when the word of the prophet shall come to pass, the prophet shall be known as one whom Jehovah has truly sent him.
Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke from the prophet Jeremiah's neck and broke it.
And Hananiah spoke for the eyes of the people saying, So says Jehovah, Even so I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the neck of all nations within the time of two years. And the prophet Jeremiah went his way.
Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, after Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, saying,
Go and tell Hananiah, saying, So says Jehovah, You have broken yokes of wood, but you shall make instead of them yokes of iron.
For so says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all these nations to serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. And they shall serve him. And I have given him the beasts of the field also.
Then the prophet Jeremiah said to Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah, Jehovah has not sent you, but you have made this people trust in a lie.
So Jehovah says this, Behold, I send you away from the face of the earth. You shall die this year, because you have spoken apostasy against Jehovah.
And Hananiah died the same year in the seventh month.