And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Unto the sons of Israel, therefore shalt thou say, What man soever, there may be of the sons of Israel, or of the sojourners that sojourn in Israel, that giveth of his seed unto Molech, he shall, surely be put to death,—the people of the land shall stone him with stones;
I, also, will set my face against that man, and will cut him off out of the midst of his people,—because of his seed, hath he given unto Molech, seeing that he hath made unclean my sanctuary, even to the extent of profaning my holy name.
But, if the people of the land, do even hide, their eyes from that man, when he giveth of his seed unto Molech,—so as not to put him to death,
then will I myself, set my face against that man, and against his family,—and will cut him off, and all that follow unchastely after him—in going unchastely after Molech—out of the midst of their people.
The person also that turneth unto mediums and unto oracles, in going unchastely after them, then will I set my face against that person, and will cut him off out of the midst of his people.
Therefore shall ye hallow yourselves and be holy,—Because I—Yahweh, am your God.
Therefore shall ye observe my statutes, and do them,—I—Yahweh, am he that is hallowing you.
When, any man whatsoever, curseth his father or his mother, he shall surely be put to death,—his father or his mother, hath he cursed, his blood, shall be upon himself.
And, any man, who committeth adultery with the wife of any other man, he that committeth adultery with the wife of his neighbour shall surely be put to death—the adulterer, and the adulteress.
And any man who lieth with his father’s wife, the shame of his father, hath uncovered,—they both shall, surely be put to death—their blood shall be upon themselves.
And any man who lieth with his daughter-in-law, they both shall, surely be put to death, confusion, have they wrought—their blood shall be upon themselves.
And any man who lieth with mankind as with womankind, an abomination, have both of them wrought,—they shall, surely be put to death,—their blood, shall be upon themselves.
And, any man, who taketh a woman and her mother, wickedness, it is,—in fire, shall both he and they be consumed, that wickedness be not in your midst.
And, any man, who hath carnal knowledge of a beast, shall, surely be put to death,—and, the beast, shall ye slay.
And, a woman, who approacheth unto any beast, to couch down thereto, then shalt thou slay the woman and the beast,—they shall surely be put to death,—their blood, shall be upon themselves.
And, any man, who taketh his sister—his father’s daughter or his mother’s daughter, and vieweth her shame, and, she, vieweth his shame, a disgrace, it is,—they shall therefore be cut off in the sight of the sons of their people,—the shame of his sister, hath he uncovered—his iniquity, shall he bear.
And, any man, who lieth with a woman having her sickness, and uncovereth her shame, her fountain, hath he exposed, she, also hath uncovered her fountain of blood,—they shall therefore both be cut off out of the midst of their people.
And the shame of thy mother’s sister, or of thy father’s sister, shalt thou not uncover,—for his near of kin, hath he exposed—their iniquity, shall they bear.
And, any man, who lieth with his uncle’s wife, the shame of his uncle, hath he uncovered,—their sin, shall they bear—childless, shall they die.
And, any man, who taketh his brother’s wife, impurity, it is,—the shame of his brother, hath he uncovered—childless, shall they remain.
Therefore shall ye observe all my statutes and all my regulations, and do them,—So shall the land whereinto I am bringing you to dwell therein, not vomit you forth;
So shall ye not walk in the—statutes of the nations, which I am casting out from before you,—For all these things, had they done, Therefore I abhorred them;
And said unto you—Ye, shall possess their soil, Yea, I myself, will give it you to possess it, A land flowing with milk and honey,—I—Yahweh, am your God, who have distinguished you from the peoples;
Therefore shall ye make a distinction—Between the clean beasts, and the unclean,—And between the unclean birds and the clean,—So shall ye not make your persons abominable with beast, or with bird or with anything which creepeth upon the ground, which I have distinguished for you, as unclean.
Therefore shall ye be unto me, holy persons, for, holy, am, I—Yahweh,—Therefore have I distinguished you from the peoples, that ye may be mine.
And as touching man or woman, when there shall be in them a familiar spirit, or the spirit of an oracle, they shall, surely be put to death,—with stones, shall they be stoned—their blood, shall be upon themselves.