Now in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea,
and saying, Repent! For the kingdom of Heaven has drawn near.
For this is he spoken of by Isaiah the prophet, saying: "The voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord! Make His paths straight!" Isa. 40:3
And John himself had his clothing from hairs of a camel, and a belt of leather about his loin. And his food was locusts and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem and all Judea went out to him, and all the neighborhood of the Jordan,
and were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.
But seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Offspring of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Therefore, bring forth fruits worthy of repentance.
And do not think to say within yourselves, We have a father, Abraham. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones.
But already the axe is even laid at the root of the trees; therefore, any tree not bringing forth good fruit is cut down and is thrown into fire.
I indeed baptize you in water to repentance; but He who is coming after me is stronger than I, whose sandals I am not fit to carry. He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit and fire,
whose fan is in His hand, and He will cleanse His floor and will gather His wheat into the barn. But He will burn up the chaff with fire that cannot be put out.
Then Jesus arrived from Galilee to the Jordan, to John, to be baptized by him.
But John restrained Him, saying, I have need to be baptized by You, and do You come to me?
But answering, Jesus said to him, Allow it now, for it is becoming to us this way to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allowed Him.
And having been baptized, Jesus went up immediately from the water. And, behold! The heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God coming down as a dove, and coming upon Him.
And behold! A voice out of the heaven saying, This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I have found delight. Psa. 2:7; Gen. 22:2; Isa. 42:1