AND when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, purchased aromatics, that they might come, and anoint him.
And very early on the first day of the week, they come to the sepulchre, as the sun was rising.
And said among themselves, Who will roll away for us the stone from the door of the sepulchre?
And looking again, they saw that the stone was rolled away, for it was vastly large.
And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting at the right hand, clothed in a white robe; and they were greatly terrified.
But he saith unto them, Be not affrighted, ye seek Jesus the Nazarean, who was crucified; he is risen, he is not here: behold the place where they laid him.
But go, tell his disciples, and Peter, that he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him, as he told you.
And they going out hastily, fled from the sepulchre, for trembling and astonishment had seized them: and they said not a word to any person, for they were affrighted.
Now being arisen early, on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils.
She going, told it to those who had been with him, as they were wailing and weeping.
And they, when they heard that he was alive, and had been seen by her, gave no credit to her.
Then after this, he was manifested under another form, to two of them as they were walking, and going into the country.
And they came back and told the news to the rest; neither did they believe them.
Afterwards he shewed himself to the eleven, as they were sitting at table, and upbraided them for their infidelity and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he was risen.
And he said unto them, Go into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.
He that believeth and is baptised shall be saved; and he that believeth not shall be damned.
And these signs shall follow those that believe: in my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues;
they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly potion, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover health.
Then the Lord, after having thus spoken to them, was taken up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God.
But they going forth preached every where, the Lord working mightily with them, and confirming the word, by attendant miracles. \p