These are the words of the covenant which the LORD commanded Moses to make with the sons of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which He made with them in Horeb.
And Moses called to all Israel and said to them, You have seen all that the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh and to all his servants, and to all his land.
Your eyes have seen the great trials, the signs, and those great miracles.
Yet the LORD has not given you a heart to perceive, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, until today.
And I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not become old on you, and your shoe has not become old on your foot.
You have not eaten bread, neither have you drunk wine or strong drink, so that you might know that I am the LORD your God.
And when you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, came out against us to battle, and we struck them.
And we took their land and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites and to the Gadites and to the half tribe of Manasseh.
Therefore, keep the words of this covenant and do them, so that you may act wisely in all that you do.
You stand today, all of you, before the LORD your God; your captains of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, all the men of Israel,
your little ones, your wives, and your stranger that is in your camp, from the cutter of your wood to the drawer of your water;
so that you should enter into covenant with the LORD your God, and into His oath, which the LORD your God makes you today;
that He may establish you today for a people to Himself, and that He may be a God to you, as He has said to you, and as He has sworn to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Nor do I make this covenant and this oath with you only,
but with him who stands here with us today before the LORD our God, and also with him that is not here with us today.
(For you know how we have lived in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the nations which you passed.
And you have seen their abominations and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them)
lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turns away today from the LORD our God, to go serve the gods of these nations; lest there should be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood,
and it happens when he hears the words of this curse, that he shall bless himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to snatch away the drunken with the thirsty.
The LORD will not be willing to forgive him, but then the anger of the LORD and His jealousy shall smoke against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie on him, and the LORD shall blot out his name from under heavens.
And the LORD shall set him apart to evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this book of the law;
so that the generation to come of your sons that shall rise up after you, and the stranger that shall come from a far land, shall say (when they see the plagues of that land, and the sicknesses which the LORD has laid on it)
the whole land shall be burned with brimstone, and salt; it shall not be sown; nor shall it sprout; nor shall there be any grass in it. It shall be like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, which the LORD overthrew in His anger, and in His wrath,
even all nations shall say, Why has the LORD done this to this land? For what is the heat of this great anger?
Then men shall say, Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD God of their fathers, which He made with them when He brought them forth out of the land of Egypt.
For they went and served other gods, and worshiped them, gods whom they did not know, and who had not given to them any portion.
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against this land, to bring on it all the curses that are written in this book.
And the LORD rooted them out of their land in anger and wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, as it is today.
The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but the revealed things belong to us and to our sons forever, so that we may do all the words of this law.