Concerning the gathering for the Saintes, as I haue ordeined in the Churches of Galatia, so doe ye also.
Euery first day of the weeke, let euery one of you put aside by himselfe, and lay vp as God hath prospered him, that then there be no gatherings when I come.
And when I am come, whomsoeuer ye shall alowe by letters, them will I send to bring your liberalitie vnto Hierusalem.
And if it be meete that I goe also, they shall goe with me.
Nowe I will come vnto you, after I haue gone through Macedonia (for I will passe through Macedonia.)
And it may be that I will abide, yea, or winter with you, that ye may bring me on my way, whither soeuer I goe.
For I will not see you nowe in my passage, but I trust to abide a while with you, if the Lord permit.
And I wil tary at Ephesus vntill Pentecost.
For a great doore and effectuall is opened vnto me: and there are many aduersaries.
Nowe if Timotheus come, see that he be without feare with you: for he worketh the worke of the Lord, euen as I doe.
Let no man therefore despise him: but conuey him foorth in peace, that he may come vnto me: for I looke for him with the brethren.
As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him, to come vnto you with the brethren: but his mind was not at all to come at this time: howbeit he will come when he shall haue conuenient time.
Watch ye: stand fast in the faith: quite you like men, and be strong.
Let all your things be done in loue.
Nowe brethren, I beseeche you (ye knowe the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruites of Achaia, and that they haue giuen themselues to minister vnto the Saintes)
That ye be obedient euen vnto such, and to all that helpe with vs and labour.
I am glad of the comming of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus: for they haue supplied the want of you.
For they haue comforted my spirite and yours: acknowledge therefore such men.
The Churches of Asia salute you: Aquila and Priscilla with ye Church that is in their house, salute you greatly in the Lord.
All the brethren greete you. Greete ye one another, with an holy kisse.
The salutation of me Paul with mine owne hand.
If any man loue not the Lord Iesus Christ, let him be had in execration maran-atha.
The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you.
My loue be with you all in Christ Iesus, Amen.  The first Epistle to the Corinthians, written from Philippi, and sent by Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, and Timotheus.