And it came to pass in that year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year in the fifth month, that Hananiah son of Azzur the prophet who was of Gibeon, spake unto me, in the house of Yahweh, before the eyes of the priests and all the people, saying:
Thus speaketh Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel saying,—I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon:
within the space of two years, I am bringing back into this place, all the vessels of the house of Yahweh,—which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, hath taken away from this place, and carried into Babylon.
Jeconiah also, son of Jehoiakim king of Judah with all the captives of Judah who have entered Babylon, am I bringing back into this place Declareth Yahweh,—for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Then said Jeremiah the prophet, unto Hananiah the prophet, in the presence of the priests and in the presence of all the people, who were standing in the house of Yahweh,
then said Jeremiah the prophet,—Amen! So, may Yahweh do! Yahweh establish thy words which thou hast prophesied by bringing back the vessels of the house of Yahweh and all them of the captivity, from Babylon unto this place.
Nevertheless hear thou I pray thee, this word, which I am speaking in thine ears,—and in the ears of all the people:
The prophets who were before me and before thee, from age-past times when they prophesied against many lands and concerning great kingdoms, of war and of calamity and of pestilence,
the prophet who prophesied of peace when the word of the prophet was fulfilled, then was known the prophet, whom Yahweh had sent in truth.
Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke from off the neck of Jeremiah the prophet,—and brake it.
And Hananiah spake before the eyes of all the people saying, Thus, saith Yahweh,—In like manner, will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, within the space of two years, from off the neck of all the nations, And Jeremiah the prophet went his way.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto Jeremiah after that Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from off the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, saying:
Go and speak unto Hananiah saying—Thus, saith Yahweh, Yokes of wood, thou hast broken,—But thou shalt make, in their stead yokes of iron!
For, Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts God of Israel,—A yoke of iron, have I put upon the neck of all these nations to serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and they shall serve him, Moreover also the wild beast of the field, have I given to him.
Then said Jeremiah the prophet unto Hananiah the prophet,—Hear I pray thee, Hananiah: Yahweh hath not sent thee, Thou, therefore hast caused this people to trust in falsehood!
Therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh, Behold me! driving thee away from off the face of the ground,—This year, art thou to die, Because revolt, hast thou spoken against Yahweh.
So Hananiah the prophet died the same year, in the seventh month.