And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, When a man makes a difficult vow by your evaluation, the persons shall be Jehovah's.
And your evaluation shall be of the male from a son of twenty years even until a son of sixty years; then your evaluation shall be fifty shekels of silver by the shekel of the sanctuary.
And if it is a female, then your evaluation shall be thirty shekels.
And if from a son of five years to a son of twenty years, then your evaluation shall be twenty shekels for the male and ten shekels for the female.
And if a son of a month even to a son of five years, then your evaluation shall be five shekels of silver for the male and three shekels of silver for the female.
And if from a son of sixty years and above, if a male, then your evaluation shall be fifteen shekels and for a female ten shekels.
but if he is too poor for your evaluation, then he shall be made to stand before the priest, and the priest shall value him; the priest shall value him according to the reach of him who vowed.
And if it is an animal of which they bring an offering to Jehovah, all that one gives of it to Jehovah is holy.
He shall not replace it, or change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good. And if he shall at all change animal for animal, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy.
And if any unclean animal, or one which they may not bring as an offering to Jehovah, then he shall make stand the animal before the priest.
And the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad; as you the priest value it, so it shall be.
But if he really redeems it, then he shall add its fifth to your evaluation.
And when a man sanctifies his house as a holy thing to Jehovah, then the priest shall value it, whether good or bad. As the priest values it, so it shall stand.
And if he who is sanctifying shall redeem the house, then he shall add a fifth of the silver of its valuation, and it shall become his.
And if a man sanctifies a field of his property to Jehovah, then your valuation shall be according to its seed; a homer of barley seed at fifty shekels of silver.
If he shall sanctify his field from the year of jubilee, it shall stand according to your valuation.
And if he shall sanctify his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall count to him the silver according to the years which are left, to the year of the jubilee. And it shall be deducted from your estimation.
And if he sanctifying the field really will redeem it, then he shall add a fifth of the silver of your evaluation to it, and it shall rise to become his.
And if he does not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it is not to be redeemed any more.
And the field shall be holy to Jehovah when it goes out in the jubilee, as a field which is devoted. It shall be a possession to the priest.
And if he should devote a field of his purchase, which is not of the fields of his possession,
then the priest shall count to him the amount of your valuation to the year of jubilee. And he shall give your valuation in that day, a holy thing to Jehovah.
In the year of jubilee the field shall return to him from whom he bought it, to him who owns it in the land.
And all your valuation shall be by the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.
However, no man shall dedicate a firstling, which is first-born to Jehovah among animals, whether ox or sheep; it is Jehovah's.
And if among the unclean animals, then he shall ransom it at your valuation, and he shall add its fifth to it. And if it is not redeemed, then it shall be sold at your evaluation.
But any devoted thing which a man devotes to Jehovah from all which belongs to him, of man or of animal, or of the field of his possession, it shall not be sold nor redeemed. Every devoted thing to Jehovah is most holy.
No devoted thing which is dedicated by man shall be ransomed; it shall surely be put to death.
And all the tithe of the land, of the seed of the land, of the fruit of the tree, shall be Jehovah's; it is holy to Jehovah.
And if a man really redeems any of his tithes, he shall add its fifth to it.
And all the tithe of the herd and of the flock, all that passes under the rod, a tenth shall be holy to Jehovah;
he shall not search whether it is good or bad, nor shall he change it. And if he at all changes it, then it shall be that it and its substitute shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.
These are the commands which Jehovah has commanded Moses for the sons of Israel, on Mount Sinai.