Let us fear, therefore, lest, as a promise of entering into his rest still remains, any of you should seem to come short of it.
For we have had the good news preached to us, even as they had: but the word preached did not profit them, for it was not mixed with faith in those who heard it.
For we who have believed are to enter into rest, as he said: So I swore in my anger, they shall not enter into my rest; namely, that rest from his works which had been finished from the foundation of the world.
For he spoke in a certain place of the seventh day, thus: And God did rest on the seventh day from all his works;
and in this place again: They shall not enter into my rest.
Since, then, it remains that some must enter into it, and they, to whom the good news was first preached, did not enter in on account of unbelief,
again, he determines a certain day, saying in David, after so long a time, To-day, as it is said, To-day, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not, after this, have spoken of another day.
There remains, therefore, a sabbath-state for the people of God.
For he that has entered into his rest, he also has ceased from his own works, as God did from his.
Let us earnestly strive, therefore, to enter into that rest, lest any one fall after the same example of unbelief.
For the word of God is living and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and pierces even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
And there is no creature which is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked, and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account.
Seeing, then, that we have a great high priest, who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
For we have not a high priest that can not sympathize with our infirmities; but he was tempted in all things like ourselves, yet without sin.
Let us come, therefore, with boldness, to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace to help in every time of need.