Then Jesus was led up into the wilderness by the Spirit, to be tempted by the Devil.
And having fasted forty days and forty nights, afterwards He hungered.
And coming near to Him, the Tempter said, If You are the Son of God, speak that these stones may become loaves.
But answering, He said, It has been written: "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word going out of the mouth of God." Deut. 8:3
Then the Devil takes Him to the holy city, and he set Him on the wing of the temple.
And he said to Him, If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down; for it has been written: "He shall give His angels charge concerning You, and they shall bear You on their hands, lest You strike Your foot against a stone." LXX-Psa. 90:11, 12; MT-Psa. 91:11, 12
Jesus said to him, Again it has been written: "You shall not tempt the Lord your God." Deut. 6:16
Again the Devil takes Him to a very high mountain, and he showed to Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
And he said to Him. I will give all these things to You if falling down, You will worship me.
Then Jesus said to him, Go, Satan! For it has been written: "You shall worship the Lord your God, and you shall serve Him only." Deut. 6:13
Then the Devil left Him. And behold! Angels came near and ministered to Him.
But Jesus hearing that John was delivered up, He withdrew into Galilee.
And leaving Nazareth, coming He lived at Capernaum, beside the sea in the districts of Zebulun and Naphtali,
so that might be fulfilled that spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying:
"Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations:
the people sitting in the darkness saw a great Light; and to those sitting in the region and shadow of death, Light sprang up to them." Isa. 9:1, 2
From that time Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent! For the kingdom of Heaven has drawn near.
And walking beside the sea of Galilee, Jesus saw two brothers, Simon called Peter and his brother Andrew casting a net into the sea; for they were fishers.
And He says to them, Come after Me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And leaving the nets, they immediately followed Him.
And going on from there, He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and his brother John in the boat with their father Zebedee, mending their nets. And He called them.
And at once leaving the boat and their father, they followed Him.
And Jesus went around all Galilee teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every one of the illnesses among the people.
And the report of Him went out into all Syria. And they brought to Him all the ones having illness, suffering various diseases and torments, also those having been demon-possessed, and those having been moonstruck, and paralytics; and He healed them.
And many crowds followed Him from Galilee and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judea, and beyond the Jordan.