Thus, saith Yahweh, The, heavens, are my throne, and The earth, is my footstool: Where then is the house which ye can build me? Or where is my place of rest?
For, all these things, hath mine own hand made, And all these things came into being,—Declareth Yahweh. But for this one, will I look around, For him who is humbled and smitten in spirit, And so careth anxiously for my word.
He that slaughtereth an ox, [is as one] who smiteth a man, He that sacrificeth a lamb, [is as one] who beheadeth a dog, he that causeth a meal-offering to ascend, offereth it with the blood of swine, He that maketh a memorial of frankincense, [is as one] who blesseth iniquity: They indeed, have chosen their own ways, And in their own abominations, their soul hath found delight;
I, also, will choose the things that vex them. And the things they dread, will I bring upon them, Because—I called and there was none to answer, I spake, and they hearkened not,—But did that which was wicked in mine eyes, And of that wherein I delighted not, made choice.
Hear the word of Yahweh, ye who care anxiously for his word: Said your brethren Who hated you. Who thrust you out for my Name’s sake, Yahweh be glorified! Therefore shall he appear to your rejoicing, But, they, shall turn pale.
The sound of a tumult—out of the city, A sound, out of the temple,—The sound of Yahweh rendering recompense to his foes.
Before she travaileth, she hath brought forth,—Before her pains come to her, she hath given birth to a man-child!
Who hath heard the like of this? Who hath seen the like of these things? Can a land, be made to bring forth in one day? Or a nation, be born, at one time? As soon as she travaileth, Zion hath also given birth to her children.
Could, I, bring to the birth and not cause to bring forth? saith Yahweh. Or, I, be causing to bring forth and then prevent? Saith thy God.
Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, and exult over her All ye who love her,—Joy with her right joyfully, All ye who used to mourn over her:
That ye may draw to satisfaction out of the fountain of her consolations,—That ye may drain out and get exquisite delight from the abundance of her glory.
For, thus, saith Yahweh,—Behold me! extending unto her like a river, prosperity, And as a torrent o’erflowing, the glory of the nations. That ye may draw it forth—Upon the side, shall ye be carried, and Upon the knees, shall ye be caressed:
As one whom, his mother, consoleth, So, will, I, console you, And in Jerusalem, shall ye be consoled.
As soon as ye have seen it, your heart, shall be joyful, And your bones, like green herbage, shall thrive,—So shall be known The hand of Yahweh with his servants, But indignation with his foes!
For lo! Yahweh, with fire, doth come, And like a storm-wind, [are] his chariots,—To render with fury, his anger, And his rebuke with flames of fire.
For, by fire, will Yahweh enter into judgment, And by his sword, with all flesh,—And many shall be the slain of Yahweh.
They who hallow themselves and purify themselves for the gardens, Behind a certain thing in the midst, Who eat the flesh of swine and the abomination, and the mouse, Together, shall be cut off—Declareth Yahweh.
Because, I, …for their works and their devices, doth it come! …Am about to gather together all nations and tongues,—So shall they come and see my glory.
Then will I set among them, a sign, And will send, of them such as have escaped unto the nations—Tarshish Pul and Lud that draw the bow, Tubal and Javan,—The Coastlands that are afar off, Who have not heard my fame Nor seen my glory, And they shall tell my glory throughout the nations.
Then shall they bring in all your brethren out of all the nations, As a present unto Yahweh, Upon horses and in chariots and in palanquins and on mules and on dromedaries Unto my holy mountain—Jerusalem, saith Yahweh,—Just as the sons of Israel, bring in their present in a pure vessel, into the house, of Yahweh.
And of them also, will I take for priests—for Levites, saith Yahweh,
For, as the new heavens and the new earth, which I am about to make, are to remain before me, Declareth Yahweh, So, shall remain your seed and your name.
And it shall come to pass, that From one new moon to another, and From one sabbath to another, Shall all flesh, come in, to bow down before me, Saith Yahweh.
Then shall they go forth and look upon the dead bodies of the men who had been trespassing against me—For, their worm, shall not die, And, their fire, shall not be quenched; So shall they become an abhorrence to all flesh.