And Jehovah said to Moses, Hew thee two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write upon the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which thou broke.
And be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me on the top of the mount.
And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seen throughout all the mount, neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mount.
And he hewed two tablets of stone like the first. And Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up to mount Sinai, as Jehovah had commanded him, and took in his hand two tablets of stone.
And Jehovah descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of Jehovah.
And Jehovah passed by before him, and proclaimed, Jehovah, Jehovah, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth,
keeping loving kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the sons, and upon the sons's sons, upon the third and upon the fourth generation.
And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshiped.
And he said, If now I have found favor in thy sight, O Lord, let the Lord, I pray thee, go in the midst of us, for it is a stiff-necked people, and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.
And he said, Behold, I make a covenant. Before all thy people I will do marvels, such as have not been wrought in all the earth, nor in any nation, and all the people among which thou are shall see the work of Jehovah, for it is an awesome thing that I do with thee.
Observe thou that which I command thee this day. Behold, I drive out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land where thou go, lest it be for a snare in the midst of thee.
But ye shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and ye shall cut down their Asherim,
for thou shall worship no other god. For Jehovah, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God.
Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they play the harlot after their gods, and sacrifice to their gods, and a man calls thee and thou eat of his sacrifice,
and thou take of their daughters to thy sons, and their daughters play the harlot after their gods, and make thy sons play the harlot after their gods.
Thou shall make thee no molten gods.
Thou shall keep the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days thou shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, at the time appointed in the month Abib, for in the month Abib thou came out from Egypt.
All that opens the womb is mine, and all thy cattle that is male, the firstlings of cow and sheep.
And the firstling of a donkey thou shall redeem with a lamb, and if thou will not redeem it, then thou shall break its neck. All the firstborn of thy sons thou shall redeem. And none shall appear before me empty.
Six days thou shall work, but on the seventh day thou shall rest; in plowing time and in harvest thou shall rest.
And thou shall observe the feast of weeks, even of the first-fruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering in the middle of the year.
Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the lord Jehovah, the God of Israel.
For I will cast out nations before thee, and enlarge thy borders. Neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou go up to appear before Jehovah thy God three times in the year.
Thou shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread, nor shall the sacrifice of the feast of the Passover be left to the morning.
The first of the first-fruits of thy ground thou shall bring to the house of Jehovah thy God. Thou shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Write thou these words, for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel.
And he was there with Jehovah forty days and forty nights. He neither ate bread, nor drank water, and he wrote upon the tablets the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the mount, that Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone by reason of his speaking with him.
And when Aaron and all the sons of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him.
And Moses called to them. And Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him, and Moses spoke to them.
And afterward all the sons of Israel came near, and he gave them in commandment all that Jehovah had spoken with him on mount Sinai.
And when Moses was done speaking with them, he put a veil on his face.
But when Moses went in before Jehovah to speak with him, he took the veil off, until he came out. And he came out, and spoke to the sons of Israel that which he was commanded.
And the sons of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone. And Moses put the veil upon his face again until he went in to speak with him.