Moreover Elihu answered, and said,
Hear my words, ye wise men, and give ear to me, ye who have knowledge.
For the ear tries words as the palate tastes food.
Let us choose for us that which is right. Let us know among ourselves what is good.
For Job has said, I am righteous, and God has taken away my right.
Notwithstanding my right I am accounted a liar. My wound is incurable, though I am without transgression.
What man is like Job, who drinks up scorning like water,
saying, I have not sinned, nor committed unrighteousness, nor had fellowship with workers of iniquity to go with the profane.
For thou should not say, There shall be no visitation to a man, whereas visitation is to him from the Lord.
Therefore hearken to me, ye men of understanding. Far be it from me to sin before the Lord, and pervert righteousness before the Almighty.
For the work of a man he will render to him, and cause every man to find according to his ways.
Yea, certainly God will not do wrong. Neither will the Almighty pervert justice.
Who gave him a charge over the earth? Or who has disposed the whole world?
If he sets his heart upon himself, if he gathers his spirit and his breath to himself,
all flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again to dust.
If now thou be understanding, hear this. Hearken to the voice of words.
Behold thou him who hates lawlessness, and who destroys evil men, who is forever righteousness,
him who says to a king, Thou are vile, to ranking men, Ye are wicked,
who does not respect the persons of rulers, nor regards the rich more than the poor. For they all are the work of his hands.
In a moment they die, even at midnight. The people are shaken and pass away, and the mighty are taken away without hand.
For his eyes are upon the ways of a man, and he sees all his goings.
There is no darkness, nor thick gloom where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.
For he needs no further to consider a man, that he should go before God in judgment.
He breaks in pieces mighty men in ways past finding out, and sets others in their stead.
Therefore he takes knowledge of their works, and he overturns them in the night, so that they are destroyed.
He strikes them as wicked men in the open sight of others
because they turned aside from following him, and would not have regard in any of his ways,
so that they caused the cry of the poor to come to him, and he heard the cry of the afflicted.
When he gives quietness, who then can condemn? And when he hides his face, who then can behold him? It is the same whether to a nation, or to a man,
that the profane man not reign, that there be none to ensnare the people.
For has any said to God, I have borne chastisement, I will not offend any more.
Teach thou me that which I do not see. If I have done iniquity, I will do it no more?
Shall his recompense be as thou desire, that thou refuse it? For thou must choose, and not I. Therefore speak what thou know.
Men of understanding will say to me, yes, every wise man who hears me,
Job speaks without knowledge, and his words are without wisdom.
But surely not. Learn thou Job not to still give an answer like the foolish,
so that we may not add to our sins, and lawlessness will be reckoned against us, speaking many words before the Lord.