With reference to the Collection for Christ’s People, I want you to follow the instructions that I gave to the Churches in Galatia.
On the first day of every week each of you should put by what he can afford, so that no collections need be made after I have come.
On my arrival, I will send any persons, whom you may authorise by letter, to carry your gift to Jerusalem;
and, if it appears to be worth while for me to go also, they shall go with me.
I will come to you as soon as I have been through Macedonia — for I am going through Macedonia —
And I shall probably make some stay with you or, perhaps, remain for the winter, so that you may yourselves send me on my way, wherever I may be going.
I do not propose to pay you a visit in passing now, for I hope to stay with you for some time, if the Lord permits.
I intend, however, staying at Ephesus till the Festival at the close of the Harvest;
for a great opening for active work has presented itself, and there are many opponents.
If Timothy comes, take care that he has no cause for feeling anxious while he is with you. He is doing the Master’s work no less than I am.
No one, therefore, should slight him. See him safely on his way to me, for I am expecting him with some of our Brothers.
As for our Brother Apollos, I have often urged him to go to you with the others. He has, however, been very unwilling to do so as yet; but he will go as soon as he finds a good opportunity.
Be watchful; stand firm in your faith; show yourselves men; be strong.
Let everything you do be done in a loving spirit.
I have another request to make of you, Brothers. You remember Stephanas and his household, and that they were the first-fruits gathered in from Greece, and set themselves to serve Christ’s People.
I want you, on your part, to show deference to such men as these, as well as to every fellow labourer and earnest worker.
I am glad Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus have come, for they have made up for your absence;
they have cheered my heart, and your hearts also. Recognise the worth of such men as these.
The Churches in Roman Asia send you their greetings. Aquila and Prisca and the Church that meets at their house send you many Christian greetings.
All our brothers send you greetings. Greet one another with a sacred kiss.
I, Paul, add this greeting in my own handwriting.
Accursed be any one who has no love for the Lord. THE LORD IS COMING.
May the blessing of the Lord Jesus be with you.
My love to all of you who are in union with Christ Jesus.