Have they made you ruler of a feast?
Be not lifted up,
Be you among them as one of them;
Take thought for them, and so sit down.

And when you have done all your office, take your place,
That you may be gladdened on their account,
And receive a crown for your well ordering.

Speak, you that are the elder, for it becomes you, but  with sound knowledge;
And hinder not music.

Pour not out talk where there is a performance of music,
And display not your wisdom out of season.

As  a signet of carbuncle in a setting of gold,
So  is a concert of music in a banquet of wine.

As  a signet of emerald in a work of gold,
So  is a strain of music with pleasant wine.

Speak, young man, if there be need of you;
Yet  scarcely if you be twice asked.

Sum up your speech, many things in few words;
Be as one that knows and yet holds his tongue.

If you be  among great men, behave not as their equal;
And when another is speaking, make not much babbling.

Before thunder speedeth lightning;
And before a shamefast man favor shall go forth.

Rise up betimes, and be not the last;
Get you home quickly and loiter not:

There take your pastime, and do what is in your heart;
And sin not by proud speech:

And for these things bless him that made you,
And gives you to drink freely of his good things.

He that fears the Lord will receive his  discipline;
And they that seek him  early shall find favor.

He that seeks the law shall be filled therewith:
But the hypocrite shall stumble thereat.

They that fear the Lord shall find judgement,
And shall kindle righteous acts as a light.

A sinful man shunneth reproof,
And will find a judgement according to his will.

A man of counsel will not neglect a thought;
A strange and proud man will not crouch in fear,
Even after he has done a thing by himself without counsel.

Do nothing without counsel;
And when you have once done, repent not.

Go not in a way of conflict;
And stumble not in stony places.

Be not confident in a  smooth way.

And beware of your own children.

In every work trust your own soul;
For this is the keeping of the commandments.

He that believes the law gives heed to the commandment;
And he that trusts in the Lord shall suffer no loss.
