But I say the heir, for as long a time as he is a child, differs nothing from a bondman though he is lord of all.
Instead he is under stewards and managers until the time appointed from the father.
And so when we were children, we were in bondage under the rudiments of the world.
But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth his Son, born from a woman, born under law,
so that he might redeem those under law, so that we might receive the sonship.
And because ye are sons, God sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.
So that thou are no longer a bondman but a son, and if a son, then an heir through Christ.
But of course not knowing God then, ye were in bondage to those in nature who are not gods,
but now knowing God, but rather being known by God, how is it ye turn again to the weak and destitute elements to which ye desire again to be in bondage anew?
Ye observe days, and months, and times, and years.
I am afraid of you, lest somehow I have labored toward you in vain.
I beseech you, brothers, become like me, because I also am like ye. Ye wronged me in nothing.
But ye know that through a weakness of the flesh I preached the good news to you the first time.
And ye did not disdain, nor did ye reject my trial in my flesh, but ye received me as an agent of God, as Christ Jesus.
Where then is your satisfaction? For I testify to you, that if possible, having plucked your eyes out, ye would have given them to me.
So then have I become your enemy telling you the truth?
They are zealous for you but not honorably. They want to exclude you, so that ye may be zealous for them.
But to be zealous of is always good in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.
My little children, of whom I suffer birth pains again until Christ is formed in you.
But I was wishing to be present with you now and to change my tone, because I am perplexed at you.
Tell me those desiring to be under law, do ye not hear the law?
For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one from the servant girl, and one from the freewoman.
But in fact, the man from the servant girl was born according to flesh, but the man from the freewoman through promise.
Which things are allegorized, for these are two covenants, indeed one from mount Sinai giving birth for bondage, which is Hagar.
For Hagar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and it corresponds to the present Jerusalem, and is in bondage with her children.
But the Jerusalem above is free, which is mother of us all.
For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren woman not giving birth. Burst forth and shout, thou not suffering birth pains, because many more are the children of the desolate than of her who has the husband.
Now we, brothers, who correspond to Isaac, are children of promise.
But just as then, the man who was born according to flesh persecuted the man according to Spirit, so also now.
Nevertheless, what does the scripture say? Send away the servant girl and her son, for the son of the servant girl will, no, not inherit with the son of the freewoman.
So then, brothers, we are not children of a servant girl, but of the freewoman.