What then shall we say—as touching Abraham our forefather?
For, if Abraham by works was declared righteous, he hath whereof to boast;—nevertheless, not towards God,—
For what doth the Scripture say? And Abraham believed in God, and it was reckoned unto him as righteousness.
Now, unto him that worketh, the reward is not reckoned by way of favour but by way of obligation,
Whereas, unto him that worketh not but believeth on him that declareth righteous the ungodly, his faith is reckoned as righteousness.
Just as David also affirmeth the happiness of the man unto whom God reckoneth righteousness apart from works:—
Happy, they whose lawlessnesses have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered,
Happy, the man whose sin the Lord will in nowise reckon.
This happiness, then, [is it] for the circumcision, or for the uncircumcision? for we say—His faith was reckoned unto Abraham as righteousness:
How, then, was it reckoned? When he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision;
And, a sign, he received [namely] of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while yet uncircumcised; to the end he might be father of all that believe during uncircumcision, to the end [the same] righteousness might be reckoned unto them,—
And father of circumcision—unto them who are not of circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of the faith, while yet uncircumcised, of our father Abraham.
For, not through means of law, doth the promise belong unto Abraham or unto his seed,—that he should be heir of the world; but, through a righteousness by faith.
For, if they who are of law are heirs, made void is faith and of no effect is the promise.
For, the law, worketh out anger, but, where there is no law, neither is there transgression.
For this cause, it is by faith, in order that it may be by way of favour, so that the promise is firm unto all the seed,—not unto that by the law only, but unto that also [which is such] by the faith of Abraham; who is father of us all,—
Even as it is written—Father of many nations, have I appointed thee: before him whom he believed—God, who causeth the dead to live, and calleth the things that are not as things that are:—
Who, past hope, upon hope believed, so that he became father of many nations,—according to what had been said—So shall be thy seed;—
And, without becoming weak in his faith, he attentively considered his own body, already deadened—he being a hundred years old, the deadening also of Sarah’s womb;
In respect, however, of the promise of God, he was not led to hesitate by unbelief, but received power by his faith, giving glory unto God,
And being fully persuaded (that),—what he hath promised, able is he also to perform:
Wherefore [also], it was reckoned unto him as righteousness.
Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was reckoned unto him,
But for our sakes also—unto whom it is to be reckoned,—even unto them that believe upon him who raised Jesus our Lord from among the dead:
Who was delivered up on account of our offences and was raised on account of the declaring us righteous.