And the sons of Israel according to their number, the chief fathers and commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in any matter of the divisions, who came in and went out month by month for all the months of the year, were twenty-four thousand of every division.
Over the first division for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
Of the sons of Perez was the chief of all the commanders of the army for the first month.
And over the division of the second month was Dodai the Ahohite, and of his division Mikloth was also the ruler. In his division also were twenty-four thousand.
The third commander of the army for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a chief priest. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
This is that Benaiah who was mighty among the thirty, and above the thirty. And in his division was Ammizabad his son.
The fourth for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The fifth commander for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The sixth for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The seventh for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The eighth for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The ninth for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anethothite, of the Benjamites. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The tenth for the tenth month was Maharai of Netopha, of the Zerahites. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The eleventh for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
The twelfth for the twelfth month was Heldai of Netopha, of Othniel. And in his division were twenty-four thousand.
And over the tribes of Israel, the ruler of the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri. The ruler of the Simeonites was Shephatiah the son of Maachah.
The ruler of the Levites was Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; over the Aaronites was Zadok.
Over Judah was Elihu, of the brothers of David. The ruler of Issachar was Omri the son of Michael.
The ruler of Zebulun was Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah. The ruler of Naphtali was Jerimoth the son of Azriel.
The ruler of the sons of Ephraim was Hoshea the son of Azaziah. The ruler of the half tribe of Manasseh was Joel the son of Pedaiah.
The ruler of the half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead was Iddo the son of Zechariah. The ruler of Benjamin was Jaasiel the son of Abner.
The ruler of Dan was Azareel the son of Jeroham. These were the rulers of the tribes of Israel.
But David did not take the number of those from twenty years old and under, because the LORD had said He would increase Israel like the stars of the heavens.
Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he did not finish because wrath fell against the sons of Israel for this. And the number did not go up in the account of the chronicles of king David.
And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel. And over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the strongholds, was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah.
Ezri the son of Chelub was over the work of the field for farming the ground.
And over the vineyards was Shimei of Ramah. Over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite.
And over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that were in the low plains was Baal-hanan of Geder. And over the cellars of oil was Joash.
And over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai of Sharon. And over the herds in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai.
Over the camels also was Obil the Ishmaelite. And over the asses was Jehdeiah the Meronothite.
And over the flocks was Jaziz the son of Hagar. All these were the rulers of the substance which was king David's.
And Jonathan, David's uncle, was an adviser, a wise man and a scribe. And Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons.
And Ahithophel was the king's counselor. And Hushai the Archite was the king's companion.
And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. And the general of the king's army was Joab.