The Lord Jehovah made me see this: And, behold, a basket of summer fruit!
And He said, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A basket of summer fruit. And Jehovah said to me, The end has come on My people Israel; I will not again pass over him any more.
And they will howl the songs of the temple in that day, declares the Lord Jehovah. The dead bodies shall be many; in every place one shall throw them out, saying , Hush!
Hear this, you who swallow up the poor, even to make the humble of the land to cease,
saying, When will the new moon have passed, so that we may buy grain? Or the sabbath, so that we may open the wheat, making smaller the ephah, and to enlarge the shekel, and to falsify the deceitful balances,
in order to buy the helpless with silver, and the poor for a pair of sandals, and sell the chaff of the wheat?
Jehovah has sworn by the Pride of Jacob, Surely I will not ever forget all their works.
Shall not the land tremble for this, and all who dwell in it mourn? And all of it shall rise up like the light, and it shall overflow and sink like the Nile of Egypt.
And it shall be in that day, declares the Lord Jehovah, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in light of the day.
And I will turn your feasts to mourning, and all your songs into a dirge. And I will bring up sackcloth on all loins, and baldness on every head. And I will make it like the mourning for an only one; and the end of it shall be like a bitter day.
Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord Jehovah, that I will send a famine into the land, not a famine for bread, nor a thirst for water, but rather a famine for hearing the words of Jehovah.
And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to east; they shall roam about to seek the word of Jehovah, and they shall not find it .
In that day the beautiful virgins and the young men shall faint with thirst.
They who swear by the guilt of Samaria, and say, As your God lives, O Dan! And, As the way of Beer-sheba lives! Even they shall fall, and not rise again.