The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God:
as it is written in the Prophets, "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who shall prepare Your way before You.
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make His paths straight."
John came baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins.
And all the land of Judea, and those of Jerusalem, went out to him and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins.
And John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a leather girdle about his loin. And he ate locusts and wild honey.
And he proclaimed, saying, There is One coming after me who is mightier than I, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down to loosen.
I indeed have baptized you in water, but He shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit.
And it happened in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
And immediately coming up out of the water, He saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon Him.
And there came a voice from Heaven, saying, You are My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
And immediately the Spirit drove Him into the wilderness.
And He was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted by Satan. And He was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered to Him.
And after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom of God,
and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God draws near. Repent, and believe the gospel.
And walking along beside the sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen.
And Jesus said to them, Come after Me and I will make you fishers of men.
And immediately they left their nets and followed Him.
And when He going farther from there a little, He saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets.
And immediately He called them. And they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and went after Him.
And they went into Capernaum. And immediately on the sabbath day He entered into the synagogue and taught.
And they were astonished at His doctrine. For He taught them as one who had authority, and not like the scribes.
And in their synagogue was a man with an unclean spirit. And he cried out,
saying, What is to us and to You, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know You, who You are, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet, and come out of him.
And the unclean spirit, convulsing him, and crying with a loud voice, he came out of him.
They all were amazed, so as to question among themselves, saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For He even commands the unclean spirits with authority, and they obey Him.
And immediately His fame went out into all the Galilean neighborhood.
And immediately after they had come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and at once they told Him about her.
And He came and took her by the hand and lifted her up. And instantly the fever left her, and she served them.
And at evening, when the sun set, they brought all those who were diseased to Him, and those who had been demon-possessed.
And all the city had gathered at the door.
And He healed many who were sick of different diseases, and cast out many demons. And He did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew Him.
And rising up quite early in the night, He went out and went away into a deserted place, and He was praying there.
And Simon, and those with him, searched for Him.
And finding Him, they said to Him, All are seeking You.
And He said to them, Let us go into the next towns so that I may proclaim there also. For that reason I came forth.
And He proclaimed in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast out demons.
And a leper came to Him, begging Him and kneeling down to Him, and saying to Him, If You will, You can make me clean.
And Jesus, moved with compassion, put out His hand and touched him, and said to him, I will; be clean!
And He having spoken, the leprosy instantly departed from him and he was cleansed.
And He strictly charged him and immediately sent him away,
and He said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone. But go and show yourself to the priest, and offer those things which Moses commanded for your cleansing, for a testimony to them.
But going out, he began to proclaim it very much, and to spread about the matter, so that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was outside in deserted places. And they came to Him from every quarter.