Hear therefore, you⌃ kings, and understand;
Learn, you⌃ judges of the ends of the earth:

Give ear, you⌃ that have dominion over much people,
And make your boast  in multitudes of nations.

Because your dominion was given you from the Lord,
And your sovereignty from the Most High;
Who shall search out your works,
And shall make inquisition of your counsels:

Because being officers of his kingdom you⌃ did not judge aright,
Neither kept you⌃  law, nor walked after the counsel of God.

Awfully and swiftly shall he come upon you;
Because a stern judgement befalleth them that be in high place:

For the man of low estate may be pardoned in mercy,
But mighty men shall be  searched out mightily.

For the Sovereign Lord of all will not refrain himself for any man’s  person,
Neither will he reverence greatness;
Because it is he that made both  small and great,
And alike he takes thought for all;

But  strict is the scrutiny that comes upon the powerful.

To you therefore, O princes, are my words,
That you⌃ may learn wisdom and  fall not from the right way.

For they that have kept holily the things that are holy shall themselves  be  hallowed;
And they that have been taught them shall find what to answer;

Set your desire therefore on my words;
Long for them,  and you⌃ shall be  trained by their  discipline.

Wisdom is radiant and fades not away;
And easily is she saw those who love her,
And found of them that seek her.

She forestalleth them that desire to know her, making herself first known.
He that rises up early to seek her shall have no toil,
For he shall find her sitting at his gates.

For to think upon her is perfectness of understanding,
And he that watches for her sake shall quickly be free from care.

Because she goes about, herself seeking them that are worthy of her,
And in their paths she appears to them graciously,
And in every purpose she meets them.

For  her  true beginning is desire of discipline;
And the care for discipline is love of her;

And love of her  is observance of her laws;
And to give heed to her  laws confirmeth incorruption;

And incorruption  brings near to God;

So then desire of wisdom promoteth to a kingdom.

If therefore you⌃ delight in thrones and sceptres, you⌃ princes of peoples,
Honor wisdom, that you⌃ may reign for ever.

But what wisdom is, and how she came into being, I will declare,
And I will not hide mysteries from you;
But I will trace her  out  from the beginning of creation,
And bring the knowledge of her into clear light,
And I will not pass by the truth;

Neither indeed will I take  pining envy for my companion in the way,
Because  envy shall have no fellowship with wisdom.

But a multitude of wise men is salvation to the world,
And an understanding king is tranquillity to his  people.

Wherefore be disciplined by my words, and thereby  shall you⌃ profit.
