Overflowed hath my heart, with an excellent theme, I will recite my poem concerning the king, Be, my tongue, [like] the pen of a scribe who is skilled.
Most beautiful thou art, beyond the sons of men, Graciousness hath been poured forth by thy lips, For this cause, hath God blessed thee, to times age-abiding.
Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O mighty one, [’Tis] thine honour and thy majesty;
And, [in] thy majesty, be successful! ride forth! on behalf of faithfulness, and humility—righteousness, And let thine own right hand show thee wonderful things.
Thine arrows, are sharp—Peoples, under thee, fall! In the heart of the foes of the king.
Thy throne, O God, is to times age-abiding and beyond, A sceptre of equity, is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated lawlessness,—For this cause, hath God, thine own God, anointed thee, With the oil of gladness, beyond thy partners.
Myrrh and aloes, cassias, all thy garments,—Out of the palaces of ivory, the tones of strings, have rejoiced thee.
Daughters of kings, are among thine honourable women, Stationed is the bride at thy right hand, in gold of Ophir.
Hearken, O daughter, and observe, Incline also thine ear, Forget, then, thine own people, And the house of thy father;
When the king shall desire thy beauty, Surely, he, is thy lord, then bow down to him.
Also, the daughter of Tyre, [cometh in] with a present! Thy face, shall the rich of the people appease.
All glorious—the daughter of a king [sitteth] within, Brocades, wrought with gold, [are] her clothing!
In embroidered raiment, shall she be brought unto the king—The virgins that follow her, her companions, are to be conducted unto thee:
They shall be brought, with rejoicings and exultation,—They shall enter into the palace of the king!
Instead of thy fathers, be thy sons, Thou shalt make them rulers in all the earth.
I will keep in remembrance thy Name, through each succeeding generation, For this cause, peoples, shall praise thee, to times age-abiding and beyond.