Thus hath the LORD said: For three transgressions of Moab and for the fourth, I will not convert her because she burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime;
but I will send fire in Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth; and Moab shall die in tumult, with shouting [and] with the sound of the shofar:
and I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof and will slay all the princes thereof with him, said the LORD.
Thus hath the LORD said: For three transgressions of Judah and for the fourth, I will not convert her because they have despised the law of the LORD and have not kept his statutes, and their lies caused them to err after which their fathers have walked:
but I will send fire in Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
Thus hath the LORD said: For three transgressions of Israel and for the fourth, I will not convert her because they sold the righteous for silver and the poor for a pair of shoes,
desiring that there be dust of the earth upon the head of the poor, and to twist the way of the humble: and the man and his father have gone in unto the [same] maid, profaning my holy name:
and they lay [themselves] down upon clothes laid to pledge by any altar, and they drink the wine of the condemned [in] the house of their god.
Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height [was] like the height of the cedars, and he [was] strong as an oak; yet I destroyed his fruit above and his roots beneath.
Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt and led you forty years through the wilderness that you might possess the land of the Amorite.
And I raised up of your sons for prophets and of your young men for Nazarites. [Is it] not even thus, O ye sons of Israel? said the LORD.
But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Do not prophesy.
Behold, I will press you in your place, as a cart is pressed [that is] full of sheaves.
Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver his soul:
neither shall he that handles the bow stand; and [he that is] swift of foot shall not escape: neither shall he that rides the horse save his life.
And [he that is] strong among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, said the LORD.: