And Job answered and said,
For truly you are the people, and wisdom will die with you.
But I have understanding as well as you; I do not fall short of you; yes, who does not know such things as these?
I am a laughing-stock to his friends; who calls on God, and He answers him; the just, the upright one is a mockery;
a flaming brand despised in the thoughts of him who feels secure; it is ready for those with slipping feet.
The tents of robbers are at peace, and those who provoke God are secure, in whatever God brings to their hand.
But now ask the animals, and they shall teach you; and the birds of the air, and they shall tell you;
or speak to the earth, and it shall teach you; and the fish of the sea shall declare it to you;
who of all these does not know that the hand of the LORD has done this?
In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all flesh, even of man?
Does not the ear try words? And does not the mouth taste its food?
With the aged is wisdom, and understanding in length of days.
With Him is wisdom and strength; He has wisdom and understanding.
Behold, He breaks down, and it can not be built up again; He shuts up a man, and no one opens.
Behold, He withholds the waters, and they dry up; also He sends them out, and they overturn the earth.
With Him is strength and sound wisdom; the deceived and the deceiver are His.
He leads wise men away stripped, and makes the judges fools.
He cuts away the bonds of kings, and binds their loins with a girdle.
He leads priests away stripped, and overthrows the mighty.
He removes the speech of the men of trust, and takes away the understanding of the aged.
He pours scorn on princes, and unties the belt of the mighty.
He discovers deep things out of darkness, and brings the shadow of death to light.
He gives greatness to the nations, and destroys them. He spreads out the nations, and leads them away.
He takes away the heart of the chief of the people of the land, and causes them to wander in a wilderness where there is no path.
They grope in the dark without light, and He makes them to stagger like a drunkard.