And the king of Egypt gathered together an army, like the sand that is along the shore of the sea, and many ships. And he sought to obtain the kingdom of Alexander by deceit, and to add it to his own kingdom.
And he departed into Syria with words of peace, and they opened the cities to him, and they were meeting with him. For king Alexander had commanded them to go out to meet him, because he was his father-in-law.
But when Ptolemy entered a city, he placed garrisons of soldiers in each of the cities.
And when he drew near to Azotus, they revealed to him that the temple of Dagon had been burned with fire, and Azotus and its suburbs had been demolished, and bodies had been abandoned, and that, for those who had been cut to pieces in the war, they had made a tomb along the way.
And they told the king that Jonathan had done these things, so as to make him hated. But the king remained silent.
And Jonathan went to meet the king at Joppa with glory, and they greeted one another, and they stayed there.
And Jonathan went with the king as far as the river, which is called Eleutherus. And he returned to Jerusalem.
But king Ptolemy obtained the dominion of the coastal cities, as far as Seleucia, and he devised evil plans against Alexander.
And he sent ambassadors to Demetrius, saying: “Come, let us compose a pact between us, and I will give you my daughter, whom Alexander had, and you will reign in the kingdom of your father.
For I regret that I have given him my daughter. For he has sought to kill me.”
And he slandered him, because he coveted his kingdom.
And he took away his daughter, and he gave her to Demetrius, and he alienated himself from Alexander, and his hostilities were made manifest.
And Ptolemy entered Antioch, and he placed two diadems upon his head, that of Egypt, and that of Asia.
Now king Alexander was in Cilicia at that time, because the people of those places were rebelling.
And when Alexander heard of it, he came against him in warfare. And king Ptolemy led forth his army, and he met him with a strong hand, and he put him to flight.
And Alexander fled into Arabia, so as to be protected there. And king Ptolemy was exalted.
And Zabdiel the Arab took off the head of Alexander, and he sent it to Ptolemy.
And king Ptolemy died on the third day, and those who were in the strongholds were destroyed by those who were in the camp.
And Demetrius reigned in the one hundred and sixty-seventh year.
In those days, Jonathan gathered together those who were in Judea, in order to fight against the stronghold that was in Jerusalem. And they made many machines of war against it.
And so, certain men of iniquity, who hated their own people, went forth to king Demetrius, and they reported to him that Jonathan was besieging the stronghold.
And when he heard it, he became angry. And immediately he came to Ptolemais, and he wrote to Jonathan that he should not besiege the stronghold, but that he should meet with him promptly, for a discussion.
But when Jonathan heard this, he ordered them to besiege it. And he chose some from the elders of Israel and from the priests, and he put himself in danger.
And he took gold, and silver, and vestments, and many other presents, and he went to the king at Ptolemais, and he found favor in his sight.
And some of the iniquitous from his nation came forward with objections against him.
And the king treated him just as those who were before him had treated him. And he exalted him in the sight of all his friends.
And he confirmed him in the high priesthood and in all the other honors that he held before, and he made him the leader of his friends.
And Jonathan requested of the king that he would make Judea free from tribute, along with the three districts, and Samaria, and its confines. And he promised him three hundred talents.
And the king consented. And he wrote letters to Jonathan about all these things, continuing in this way:
“King Demetrius to his brother Jonathan, and to the nation of the Jews: greetings.
We are sending you a copy of the letter that we wrote to Lasthenes, our parent, about you, so that you will know.
‘King Demetrius to Lasthenes, his parent: greetings.
We have determined to do good to the people of the Jews, who are our friends and who keep to what is just with us, because of their good will, which they hold toward us.
Therefore, we have assigned to them all the parts of Judea, and the three cities, Lydda and Ramatha, which were added to Judea from Samaria, and all their confines, to be set apart for all those sacrificing in Jerusalem, in place of that which the king previously received from them each year, and in place of the fruits of the land and of the fruit trees.
And, as for the rest of that which pertains to us from tithes and tributes, from this time forward, we release them from these, as well as from the drying areas of salt and the crowns that were presented to us.
All these, we concede to them, and nothing of these shall be revoked, from this time forward and for all time.
Now, therefore, take care to make a copy of these things, and let it be given to Jonathan and set upon the holy mountain, in an honorable place.’ ”
And king Demetrius, seeing that the land was quieted in his sight and that nothing resisted him, sent all his forces away, each one to his own place, except the foreign army, which he had drawn together from the islands of the nations. And so all the troops of his fathers were hostile to him.
But there was a certain one, Trypho, who was previously on Alexander’s side. And he saw that all the army murmured against Demetrius, and so he went to Imalkue the Arab, who raised Antiochus, the son of Alexander.
And he persuaded him to deliver him to him, so that he would reign in his father’s place. And he reported to him what Demetrius had done, and that his army was hostile to him. And he remained there for many days.
And Jonathan sent to king Demetrius, so that he would cast out those who were in the stronghold in Jerusalem and those who were with the garrisons, because they fought against Israel.
And Demetrius sent to Jonathan, saying: “I will not only do this for you and your people, but I will elevate your glory and your nation, when opportunity shall serve.
Now, therefore, you will do well if you send men as auxiliaries to me. For all my army has withdrawn from me.”
And Jonathan sent three thousand strong men to him at Antioch. And they came to the king, and the king was delighted at their arrival.
And those who were of the city gathered together, one hundred and twenty thousand men, and they wanted to execute the king.
And the king fled into the royal court. And those who were of the city, occupied the passageways of the city, and they began to fight.
And the king called the Jews to his assistance. And they came together before him at the same time, and then they all dispersed themselves throughout the city.
And they killed, in that day, one hundred thousand men, and they set fire to the city, and they seized many spoils in that day, and they freed the king.
And those who were of the city saw that the Jews had taken the city, just as they wanted, and they were weakened in their resolve, and they cried out to the king with supplication, saying,
“Grant us a pledge, and let the Jews cease from assailing us and the city.”
And they threw down their arms, and they made peace. And the Jews were glorified in the sight of the king and in the sight of all who were in his realm. And they became renowned in the kingdom, and they returned to Jerusalem, holding many spoils.
And so king Demetrius sat on the throne of his kingdom. And the land was quieted in his sight.
And he falsified everything whatsoever that he had said. And he alienated himself from Jonathan, and he did not repay him according to the benefits that he had received in tribute from him. And he vexed him greatly.
But after this, Trypho returned, and with him was Antiochus, the adolescent boy, and he reigned, and he put a diadem on himself.
And there assembled before him all the troops, which Demetrius had dispersed, and they fought against him. And he turned his back and fled.
And Trypho took the elephants, and he obtained Antioch.
And young Antiochus wrote to Jonathan, saying: “I confirm you in the priesthood, and I appoint you over the four cities, so as to be among the king’s friends.”
And he sent him vessels of gold for his ministry, and he gave him the authority to drink from gold, and to be clothed in purple, and to have a golden clasp.
And he appointed his brother Simon as governor, from the borders of Tyre, all the way to the borders of Egypt.
Then Jonathan went out, and he passed through the cities across the river. And all the armies of Syria were gathered together in assistance to him, and he came to Askalon, and those from the city met him honorably.
And he went from there to Gaza. And those who were in Gaza closed themselves in. And so he besieged it, and he burned all that was around the city, and he plundered it.
And those of Gaza petitioned Jonathan, and he pledged to them with his right hand, and he accepted their sons as hostages and sent them to Jerusalem. And he traveled through the country, as far as Damascus.
And Jonathan heard that the leaders of Demetrius were acting treacherously at Kadesh, which is in Galilee, with a great army, intending to remove him from the affairs of the kingdom.
And he went to meet them. But he left his brother Simon behind in the countryside.
And Simon took a position against Bethzur, and he assailed it for many days, and he closed them in.
And they asked him to accept a pledge, and he granted this to them. And he cast them out of there, and he seized the city, and he placed a garrison in it.
And Jonathan and his camp took a position by the water of Gennesaret, and, before first light, they were standing watch in the plains of Hazor.
And behold, an army of foreigners met him in the plains. And they set up an ambush against him in the mountains. But he met them from the opposite direction.
Yet those lying in ambush then rose up from their places and joined them in combat.
And all those who were from Jonathan’s side fled, and not one of them was left, except Mattathias, the son of Absalom, and Judas, the son of Chalphi, the leader of military training.
And so Jonathan tore his garments, and he placed dirt on his head, and he prayed.
And Jonathan turned back toward them in battle, and he put them to flight, and they fought.
And when those from his side, who had fled, saw this, they returned to him, and with him they all pursued them, even to Kadesh, to their camp, and they even passed beyond there.
And there fell from the foreigners on that day three thousand men. And Jonathan returned to Jerusalem.