Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, And attend, that ye may learn understanding!
For I give you good instruction; Forsake ye not my commandments.
For I was my father’s son, A tender and only child in the sight of my mother.
He taught me, and said to me, Let thy heart hold fast my words; Keep my commandments, and live.
Get wisdom, get understanding; Forget not, and depart not from, the words of my mouth.
Forsake her not, and she will guard thee: Love her, and she will preserve thee.
Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore gain wisdom, And with all thy gain, gain understanding.
Exalt her, and she will promote thee; She will bring thee to honor, when thou dost embrace her;
She will give to thy head a graceful wreath, A beautiful crown will she bestow upon thee.
Hear, O my son! and receive my sayings! So shall the years of thy life be many.
I have taught thee the way of wisdom, I have guided thee in the right path.
When thou goest, thy steps shall not be confined; And, when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble.
Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go; Keep her, for she is thy life.
Enter not into the path of the wicked, And go not in the way of evil men;
Avoid it, pass not upon it, Turn from it, and go away.
For they sleep not, unless they have done mischief; Yea, their sleep is taken away, unless they have caused some to fall.
For they eat the bread of wickedness, And drink the wine of violence.
But the path of the righteous is as the light of dawn, Which groweth brighter and brighter unto the perfect day.
The way of the wicked is as thick darkness; They know not at what they stumble.
My son, attend to my words; Incline thine ear to my sayings;
Let them not depart from thine eyes; Keep them in the midst of thy heart!
For they are life to those who find them, And health to all their flesh.
More than any thing which thou watchest, watch thy heart; For from it goeth forth life.
Put away from thee a deceitful mouth, And remove far from thee perverse lips.
Let thine eyes look straight forward, And thine eyelids be directed before thee.
Give heed to the path of thy foot, And let all thy ways be steadfast.
Turn not to the right hand or to the left; Remove thy foot from evil.