And Hiram King of Tyre sent his servants unto Solomon, for he had heard that, him, had they anointed king, in the room of his father,—for, Hiram, was, a lover, of, David continually.
So Solomon sent unto Hiram, saying:—
Thou, knewest David my father, how that he could not build a house unto the Name of Yahweh his God, because of the wars that were about him on every side,—until Yahweh should put them under the soles of his feet;
but, now, Yahweh my God hath given me rest on every side,—there is neither adversary nor incident of evil.
Behold me! then, purposing to build a house for the Name of Yahweh my God—even as Yahweh spake unto David my father, saying—Thy son, whom I will set in thy stead, upon thy throne, he, shall build the house for my Name.
Now, therefore, command thou that they fell me cedars, out of Lebanon, and, my servants, shall be, with thy servants, and, the hire of thy servants, will I give thee, according to all that thou shalt say,—for, thou, knowest, that, none amongst us, hath skill to fell timber, like the Zidonians.
And it came to pass, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, that he rejoiced greatly,—and said: Blessed, be Yahweh, to-day, who hath given unto David a wise son, over this great people!
And Hiram sent unto Solomon, saying, I have heard that which thou hast sent unto me,—I, will do all thy desire, as to timber of cedar, and timber of fir.
My servants, shall bring them down out of Lebanon unto the sea, and, I, will put them in rafts on the sea, unto the place of which thou shalt send me word, and will cause them to be discharged there, and, thou, shalt receive them, and, thou, shalt do my desire, by giving food for my household.
So then Hiram began giving unto Solomon timber of cedar, and timber of fir, even all his desire,
and, Solomon, gave unto Hiram, twenty thousand measures of wheat, as food for his household, and twenty measures of beaten oil,—thus, used Solomon on to give unto Hiram, year by year.
And, Yahweh, gave wisdom unto Solomon, as he promised him,—and it came to pass that there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and, they two, solemnised a covenant.
And King Solomon raised a labour-band, out of all Israel,—and it came to pass that, the labour-band, was thirty thousand men.
And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month, by courses, a month, were they in Lebanon, two months, at home,—and, Adoniram, was over the levy.
And it came to pass that, Solomon, had seventy thousand bearers of burdens,—and eighty thousand hewers in the mountain;
besides the chiefs of Solomon’s officers, who were over the work, three thousand and three hundred,—who ruled over the people that wrought in the work.
And the king commanded, and they quarried great stones, costly stones, to found the house with hewn stones.
And Solomon’s builders and Hiram’s builders with the Gebalites wrought them,—thus made they ready the timber and the stones, for building the house.