It happened on an after saboth that he went thorow the corne felde and that his disciples plucked the eares of corne and ate and rubbed them in their hondes.
And certayne of the Pharises sayde vnto them: Why do ye that which is not laufull to do on the saboth dayes?
And Iesus answered them and sayde: Have ye not redde what David dyd when he him sylfe was anhungred and they which were with him:
how he went into the housse of God and toke and ate the loves of halowed breed and gave also to them which were with him: which was not laufull to eate but for the prestes only.
And he sayde vnto them: The sonne of man is Lorde of the saboth daye.
And it fortuned in a nother saboth also that he entred in to ye sinagoge and taught. And ther was a ma whose right honde was dryed vp.
And ye Scribes and Pharises watched him to se whether he wolde heale on the Saboth daye that they myght fynde an accusacion agaynst him.
But he knewe their thoughtes and sayde to the man which had ye wyddred honde: Ryse vp and stonde forthe in the myddes. And he arose and stepped forthe.
Then sayde Iesus vnto them: I will axe you a question: Whether is it laufull on the saboth dayes to do good or to do evill? to save lyfe or for to destroye it?
And he behelde them all in copasse and sayd vnto ye man: Stretche forth thy honde. And he dyd so and his honde was restored and made as whoole as the other.
And they were filled full of madnes and comuned one with another what they myght do to Iesu.
And it fortuned in thoose dayes that he went out into a mountayne for to praye and cotinued all nyght in prayer to god.
And assone as it was daye he called his disciples and of the he chose twelve which also he called apostles.
Simon who he named Peter: and Andrew his brother. Iames and Iho Philip and Bartlemew
Mathew and Thomas Iames the sonne of Alpheus and Simon called zelotes
and Iudas Iames sonne and Iudas Iscarioth which same was the traytour.
And he came doune with them and stode in the playne felde with the company of his disciples and agreate multitude of people out of all parties of Iurie and Ierusalem and from the see cooste of Tire and Sidon which came to heare hym and to be healed of their diseases:
and they also that were vexed with foule spretes and they were healed.
And all the people preased to touche him: for there went vertue out of him and healed them all.
And he lifted vp his eyes apon the disciples and sayde: Blessed be ye poore: for yours is the kyngdome of God.
Blessed are ye that honger now: for ye shalbe satisfied. Blessed are ye yt wepe now: for ye shall laugh.
Blessed are ye when men hate you and thrust you oute of their companye and rayle and abhorre youre name as an evyll thinge for the sonne of manes sake.
Reioyse ye then and be gladde: for beholde youre rewarde is greate in heven. After this manner their fathers entreated the Prophetes.
But wo be to you that are ryche: for ye have therin youre consolacion.
Wo be to you yt are full: for ye shall honger. Wo be to you that now laugh: for ye shall wayle and wepe.
Wo be to you when all men prayse you: for so dyd their fathers to the false prophetes.
But I saye vnto you which heare: Love youre enemyes. Do good to the which hate you.
Blesse the that course you. And praye for the which wrongfully trouble you.
And vnto him that smyteth the on the one cheke offer also ye other. And him that taketh awaye thy goune forbid not to take thy coote also.
Geve to every man that axeth of the. And of him that taketh awaye thy goodes axe them not agayne.
And as ye wolde that men shuld doo to you: so do ye to them lyke wyse.
If ye love the which love you: what thanke are ye worthy of? For the very synners love their lovers.
And yf ye do for them which do for you: what thanke are ye worthy of? For the very synners do even the same.
If ye lende to them of whome ye hoope to receave: what thanke shall ye have: for the very synners lende to synners to receave as moch agayne.
Wherfore love ye youre enemys do good and lende lokynge for nothinge agayne and youre rewarde shalbe greate and ye shalbe the chyldren of the hyest: for he is kynde vnto the vnkynde and to the evyll.
Be ye therfore mercifull as youre father is mercifull.
Iudge not and ye shall not be Iudged. Condemne not: and ye shall not be condemned. Forgeve and ye shalbe forgeven.
Geve and yt shalbe geven vnto you: good measure pressed doune shaken to geder and runnynge over shall men geve into youre bosomes. For with what measure ye mete with ye same shall men mete to you agayne.
And he put forthe a similitude vnto the: Can the blynde leade ye blynde? Do they not both then fall into ye dyche?
The disciple is not above his master. Every ma shalbe perfecte even as his master is.
Why seyst thou a moote in thy brothers eye  considerest not ye beame yt is in thyne awne eye?
Ether how canest thou saye to thy brother: Brother let me pull out ye moote that is in thyne eye: when thou perceavest not the beame that is in thyne awne eye? Ypocrite cast out ye beame out of thyne awne eye fyrst and then shalt thou se perfectly to pull out the moote out of thy brothers eye.
It is not a good tree that bringeth forthe evyll frute: nether is that an evyll tree that bringeth forthe good frute
For every tree is knowen by his frute. Nether of thornes gader men fygges nor of busshes gader they grapes.
A good man out of the good treasure of his hert bringeth forthe that which is good. And an evyll man out of the evyll treasure of his hert bringeth forthe that which ys evyll. For of the aboundaunce of ye her his mouthe speakethe.
Why call ye me Master Master: and do not as I bid you?
whosoever cometh to me and heareth my sayinges and dothe the same I will shewe you to whome he ys lyke.
He is like a man which bilt an housse: and digged depe and layde the foundacio on a rocke. Whe the waters arose the fludde bet apo that housse and coulde not move yt. For it was grounded apon a rocke.
But he that heareth and doth not is lyke a man that with out foundacion bylt an housse apon the erth agaynst which the fludde did bet: and it fell by and by. And ye fall of yt housse was greate.