And Balaam said to Balak, Build seven altars for me here, and prepare seven bullocks and seven rams for me here.
And Balak did as Balaam had spoken. And Balak and Balaam offered a bullock and a ram on the altar.
And Balaam said to Balak, Station yourself by your burnt offering, and I will go on; it may be that Jehovah will come to meet me, and I will declare to you the things which He reveals to Me. and he went to a high place.
And God came to Balaam, and he said to Him, I have set up seven altars. And I have offered a bullock and a ram on the altar.
And Jehovah put a word in Balaam's mouth, and said, Return to Balak, and you shall say this.
And he returned to him. And, lo, he was standing by his burnt offering, he and all the leaders of Moab.
And he took up his parable and said, He has led me from Aram, Balak king of Moab; from the mountains of the east, saying , Come, curse Jacob for me; and, come, rage at Israel.
How shall I curse him whom God has not cursed? And how shall I rage at him whom Jehovah has not raged at?
For from the top of the rocks I see him, and I behold him from the heights. Behold, it is a people that shall dwell alone and not be reckoned among the nations.
Who can count Jacob's dust, and the number of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his!
And Balak said to Balaam, What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and lo you have surely blessed.
And he replied and said, Must not I take heed to speak what Jehovah has put in my mouth?
And Balak said to him, Now come with me to another place where you will see it; only you will see its edge and shall not see all of it; and curse it for me there.
And he took him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bull and a ram on the altar.
And he said to Balak, Stand here by the burnt offering while I go to meet Him over there.
And Jehovah met Balaam and put a word in his mouth and said, Return to Balak, and say this.
And he came to him, and, lo, he stood by his burnt offering, and Moab's chiefs with him. And he said to him, What has Jehovah spoken?
And he took up his parable and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear; give ear to me, son of Zippor.
God is not a man that He should lie, or a son of man that He should repent. Has He said, and shall He not do it? And has He spoken, and shall He not make it good?
Behold, I have received word to bless; yes, He has blessed; I cannot reverse it.
He has seen no iniquity in Jacob, nor has He seen mischief in Israel. Jehovah his God is with him, and the shout of a king is in him.
God who brought them out of Egypt is for him like the lofty horns of the wild ox.
For there is not a spell against Jacob, nor any divination against Israel. Now it is said of Jacob and Israel, See what God has done!
Behold, the people shall rise like a lioness and as a lion he shall lift himself up; he shall not lie down until he eats the prey and drinks the blood of the slain.
And Balak said to Balaam, Do not curse it at all, nor bless it at all.
And Balaam answered and said to Balak, Did I not speak to you, saying, All that Jehovah speaks, that I will do?
And Balak said to Balaam, Come, please, I will take you to another place. It may be that it will be right in the eyes of God to curse it for me from there.
And Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, which looks toward the wilderness.
And Balaam said to Balak, Build seven altars for me here, and prepare seven bullocks and seven rams for me here.
And Balak did as Balaam said; and he offered a bullock and a ram on the altar.