Now, concerning the collection which is for the saints, just as I directed the assemblies of Galatia, so, also do, ye:—
Upon the first of the week, let, each one of you, put, by itself, in store, as he may be prospering,—lest, as soon as I come, then, collections, should be in progress.
And, as soon as I arrive, whomsoever ye shall approve by letters, these, will I send, to bear away your favour unto Jerusalem:
And, if it be meet that, I also, be journeying, with me, shall they journey.
Now I will come unto you, as soon as I have passed through Macedonia,—for I do pass through Macedonia,
And, with you, I may perhaps sojourn, or winter, that, ye, may set me forward, whithersoever I may be journeying.
For I do not wish to see you, just now, by the way; for I hope to remain, some time, with you,—if, the Lord, permit.
But I remain in Ephesus, until the Pentecost,
For, a door, unto me, hath opened, great and effectual, and, opposers, are many.
But, if Timothy should come, see that, without fear, he be with you, for, in the work of the Lord, doth he labour, even as, I:
Let no one then despise him; and set ye him forward in peace, that he may come unto me, for I expect him with the brethren.
But, concerning Apollos the brother, much, did I beseech him, that he would come unto you, with the brethren, but there was, by no means, any will, that he should come, now;—he will come, however, as soon as he hath good opportunity.
Be on the watch, stand firm in the faith, be men—be strong;
Let, all your affairs, in love, be carried on.
Now I beseech you, brethren,—ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is a first-fruit of Achaia, and, for the purpose of ministering, they devoted themselves, unto the saints—
That, ye also, be submitting yourselves unto such as these,—and unto everyone helping in the work and toiling.
I Rejoice, moreover, in the presence of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus: because, your own shortcoming, these, have filled up:—
They have given rest, in fact, unto my spirit, and yours: hold in acknowledgment, therefore, such as these.
The assemblies of Asia salute you: Aquila and Priscilla, with the assembly meeting at their house, salute you much in the Lord:
All the brethren salute you:—Salute ye one another with a holy kiss.
The salutation of Paul—with my own hand.
If anyone doth not dearly love the Lord, let him be anathema [that is, "accursed"] : Maran atha [that is, "The Lord, cometh"] .
The favour of the Lord Jesus, be with you.
My love, be with you all, in Christ Jesus.