And God spoke all these words, saying:
I am Jehovah your God, who has brought you out from the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
You shall not have any other gods beside Me.
You shall not make a graven image for yourself, or any likeness in the heavens above, or in the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth;
you shall not bow to them, and you shall not serve them; for I am Jehovah your God, a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of fathers on sons, on the third and on the fourth generation, to those that hate Me;
and doing kindness to thousands, to those loving Me, and to those keeping My commandments.
You shall not take the name of Jehovah your God in vain; for Jehovah will not leave unpunished the one who takes His name in vain.
Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy;
six days you shall labor and do all your work;
and the seventh day is a sabbath to Jehovah your God; you shall not do any work, you, and your son, and your daughter, your male slave and your slave-girl, and your livestock, and your stranger who is in your gates.
For in six days Jehovah made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all which is in them, and He rested on the seventh day; on account of this Jehovah blessed the sabbath day and sanctified it.
Honor your father and your mother, so that your days may be long on the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you.
You shall not murder.
You shall not commit adultery.
You shall not steal.
You shall not testify a witness of falsehood against your neighbor.
You shall not covet your neighbor's house; you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male slave, or his slave-girl, or his ox, or his ass, or anything which belongs to your neighbor.
And all the people saw the thunders, and the lightnings, and the sound of the ram's horn, and the smoking mountain. And the people looked, and they trembled, and they stood from a distance.
And they said to Moses, You speak with us, and we will hear. And let us not speak with God, that we not die.
And Moses said to the people, Do not be afraid, for God has come in order to test you, and so that His fear may be on your faces, that you may not sin.
And the people stood from a distance, and Moses went near the thick darkness where God was .
And Jehovah said to Moses, You shall say this to the sons of Israel: You have seen that I have spoken with you from the heavens.
You shall not make gods of silver along with Me, and you shall not make gods of gold for yourselves.
You shall make an altar of earth for Me, and you shall sacrifice your burnt offerings and your peace offerings on it, your sheep and your cattle. In every place in which I cause My name to be remembered, I will come to you and will bless you.
And if you make an altar of stone for Me, you shall not build them of cut stones. When you swing your tool on it, you defile it.
And you shall not go up by steps to My altar, that your nakedness may not be uncovered on it.