And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Moreover, thou shall say to the sons of Israel, Whoever he is of the sons of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, who gives of his seed to Molech, he shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.
I also will set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people, because he has given of his seed to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name.
And if the people at the land do at all hide their eyes from that man, when he gives of his seed to Molech, and do not put him to death,
then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all who play the harlot after him, to play the harlot with Molech, from among their people.
And the soul that turns to those who have familiar spirits, and to the wizards, to play the harlot after them, I will even set my face against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.
Sanctify yourselves therefore, and become ye holy, for I am Jehovah your God.
And ye shall keep my statutes, and do them. I am Jehovah who sanctifies you.
For he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. He has cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be upon him.
And the man who commits adultery with another man's wife, even he who commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
And the man who lies with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness. Both of them shall surely be put to death, their blood shall be upon them.
And if a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death. They have wrought perversion. Their blood shall be upon them.
And if a man lies with a man, as with a woman, both of them have committed abomination. They shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
And if a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness. They shall be burnt with fire, both he and they, that there be no wickedness among you.
And if a man lies with a beast, he shall surely be put to death, and ye shall kill the beast.
And if a woman approaches to any beast, and lies down with it, thou shall kill the woman and the beast. They shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
And if a man shall take his sister, his father's daughter, or his mother's daughter, and see her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a shameful thing, and they shall be cut off in the sight of the sons of their people. He has uncovered his sister's nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
And if a man shall lie with a woman having her sickness, and shall uncover her nakedness, he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood. And both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
And thou shall not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister, nor of thy father's sister, for he has made naked his near kin. They shall bear their iniquity.
And if a man shall lie with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness. They shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.
And if a man shall take his brother's wife, it is impurity. He has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
Ye shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them, that the land, where I bring you to dwell in it, not vomit you out.
And ye shall not walk in the customs of the nation which I cast out before you, for they did all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.
But I have said to you, Ye shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am Jehovah your God, who has separated you from the peoples.
Ye shall therefore make a distinction between the clean beast and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean. And ye shall not make your souls abominable by beast, or by bird, or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have separated from you as unclean.
And ye shall be holy to me, for I, Jehovah, am holy, and have set you apart from the peoples, that ye should be mine.
A man or also a woman who has a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to death. They shall stone them with stones; their blood shall be upon them.