I, therefore, brethren, when I came unto you, came, not with excellency of discourse or wisdom, declaring unto you the mystery of God;
For I had not determined to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ,—and, him, as one who had been crucified!
I, therefore in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling, came to be with you,
And, my discourse, and what I proclaimed, were not in suasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of Spirit and power:
In order that, your faith, might not be in men’s wisdom, but in God’s power.
Wisdom, however, we do speak, among the full-grown,—wisdom, indeed, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age, who are to come to nought;
But we speak, God’s, wisdom, in a sacred secret, that hidden [wisdom], which God marked out beforehand, before the ages, for our glory,—
Which, none of the rulers of this age had come to know, for, had they known, not, in that case, the Lord of the glory, would they have crucified!
But, even as it is written—The things which eye hath not seen, and ear hath not heard, and upon the heart of man have not come up,—whatsoever things God hath prepared for them that love him,
Unto us, in fact, hath God revealed through the Spirit; for, the Spirit, into all things, maketh search, yea! the deep things of God.
For who of men knoweth the things of a man,—save the spirit of the man that is in him? thus, even the things of God, hath no one come to know, save the Spirit of God.
But, as for us,—not the spirit of the world, have we received, but the Spirit which is of God,—that we might know the things which, by God, have been given in favour unto us:—
Which we also speak—not in words taught of human wisdom, but in such as are taught of [the] Spirit, by spiritual words, spiritual things, explaining.
But, a man of the soul, doth not welcome the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, and he cannot get to know them, because, spiritually, are they examined;
But, the man of the spirit, on the one hand, examineth all things, but, on the other, he himself, by no one, is examined.
For who hath come to know the mind of the Lord, that shall instruct him? But, we, have, the mind of Christ.