And the LORD said to Noah, You and all your house come into the ark, for I have seen you righteous before Me in this generation.
You shall take with you every clean animal by sevens, the male and female. And take two of the animals that are not clean, the male and female.
Also take of the fowls of the air by sevens, the male and the female, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
For in seven more days I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights. And I will destroy from off the face of the earth every living thing that I have made.
And Noah did according to all that the LORD commanded him.
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.
And Noah went in. And his sons and his wife and his sons' wives went in with him into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.
Of the clean animals, and of the animals that were not clean, and of the fowls, and of everything that creeps on the earth,
two by two they went in to Noah into the ark, male and female, as God had commanded Noah.
And it happened after seven days that the waters of the flood came into being on the earth.
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, in the seventeenth day of the month, in this day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the windows of the heavens were opened up.
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
In this same day, Noah and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, entered into the ark.
They went in, and every animal after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth after its kind, and every fowl after its kind, every bird of every sort.
And they went in to Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh, in which is the breath of life.
And they that entered, went in male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded him. And the LORD shut him in.
And the flood was upon the earth forty days. And the waters increased and bore up the ark, and it was lifted up above the earth.
And the waters prevailed and were increased greatly upon the earth. And the ark floated upon the face of the waters.
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth. And all the high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered.
The waters prevailed fifteen cubits upward, and the mountains were covered.
And all flesh that moved upon the face of the earth died, of birds, of cattle, of animal, and of every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth; and every man,
all who breathed the breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.
And every living thing which was on the face of the earth was destroyed, from man to cattle, and to the creeping things, and the fowls of the heavens. And they were destroyed from the earth, and only Noah was left, and those that were with him in the ark.
And the waters prevailed upon the earth a hundred and fifty days.