And full of the Holy Spirit, Jesus returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness.
forty days, being tested by the Devil. And He ate nothing in those days, and they being ended, He afterwards hungered.
And the Devil said to Him, If You are Son of God, speak to this stone that it become a loaf.
And Jesus answered to him, saying, It has been written: "Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word of God." Deut. 8:3
And leading Him up into a high mountain, the Devil showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
And the Devil said to Him, I will give all this authority and their glory to You, because it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whomever I wish.
Then if You worship before me, all will be Yours.
And answering, to him, Jesus said, Get behind Me, Satan! For it has been written: "You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only you shall serve." Deut. 6:13
And he led Him to Jerusalem, and stood Him on the wing of the temple, and said to Him, If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down from here;
for it has been written: "He will command His angels about You, even to protect You,"
"that on their hands they shall bear You, lest you strike Your foot against a stone." LXX-Psa. 90:11, 12; MT-Psa. 91:11, 12
And answering, Jesus said to him, It has been said: "You shall not tempt the Lord your God." Deut. 6:16
And having finished every temptation, the Devil departed from Him until a time.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee. And a report went out through all the neighborhood about Him.
And He taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
And He came to Nazareth where He was brought up. And as was His custom, He went in on the day of the sabbaths, into the synagogue, and He stood up to read.
And the scroll of Isaiah the prophet was handed to Him. And unrolling the book, He found the place where it was written:
" The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me. Because of this He anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me" to heal the brokenhearted, "to preach remission to captives and new sight to the blind," to send away the ones having been crushed in deliverance,
"to preach an acceptable year of the Lord." Isa. 61:1, 2
And rolling up the scroll, returning it to the attendant, He sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on Him.
And He began to say to them, Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your ears.
And all bore witness to Him, and marveled at the gracious words coming out of His mouth. And they said, Is this not the son of Joseph?
And He said to them, Surely you will speak this parable to Me, Physician, heal yourself. What things we heard were happening in Capernaum, do also here in your native place.
But He said, Truly I say to you that no prophet is acceptable in his native place.
But truthfully I say to you, There were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah when the heaven was shut up over three years and six months, when a great famine came on all the land;
and yet Elijah was sent to none of them except to Zarephath of Sidon, to a widow woman.
And many lepers were in Israel during the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was made clean except Naaman the Syrian.
And all were filled with anger, hearing these things in the synagogue.
And rising up, they threw Him outside the city, and led Him up to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, in order to throw Him down.
But He went away, passing through their midst.
And He went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And He was teaching them on the sabbaths.
And they were astonished at His doctrine, because His word was with authority.
And in the synagogue was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon. And he cried out with a loud voice,
saying, Aha! What is to us and to You, Jesus, Nazarene? Did You come to destroy us? I know You, who You are, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent, and come out from him! And throwing him into the midst, the demon came out from him, not harming him.
And astonishment came on all. And they spoke with one another, saying, What word is this, that He commands the unclean spirits with authority and power, and they come out?
And a report about Him went out into every place of the neighborhood.
And rising up from the synagogue, He went into the house of Simon. And the mother-in-law of Simon was being seized with a great fever. And they asked Him concerning her.
And standing over her, He rebuked the fever; and it left her. And rising up instantly, she served them.
And the sun sinking, all, as many as had sick ones with various diseases, brought them to Him. And laying hands on each one of them, He healed them.
And also demons came out from many, crying out and saying, You are the Christ, the Son of God! And rebuking them , He did not allow them to speak, for they knew Him to be the Christ.
And day coming, going out, He went into a deserted place. And the crowds looked for Him, and came up to Him, and held Him fast, not to pass away from them.
But He said to them, It is right for Me to preach the gospel, the kingdom of God, to the other cities, because I was sent on this mission .
And He was proclaiming in the synagogues of Galilee.