Hence there is now, no, condemnation unto them who are in Christ Jesus;
For, the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus, hath set thee free from the law of sin and of death;—
For, what was impossible by the law in that it was weak through the flesh, God, by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and concerning sin, condemned sin in the flesh,
In order that, the righteous requirement of the law, might be fulfilled in us—who, not according to flesh, do walk, but according to spirit;
For, they who according to flesh have their being, the things of the flesh do prefer, but, they according to the spirit, the things of the spirit;
For, what is preferred by the flesh, [is] death, whereas, what is preferred by the spirit, [is] life and peace;—
Inasmuch as, what is preferred by the flesh, [is] hostile towards God, for, unto the law of God, it doth not submit itself, neither in fact can it.—
They, moreover, who in flesh have their being, cannot please, God.
But, ye, have not your being in flesh, but in spirit,—if at least, God’s Spirit, dwelleth in you; and, if anyone hath not Christ’s Spirit, the same, is not his;—
But, if Christ is in you, the body, indeed, is dead by reason of sin, whereas, the spirit, is life by reason of righteousness;
If, moreover, the Spirit of him that raised Jesus from among the dead dwelleth in you, he that raised from among the dead Christ Jesus, shall make alive [even] your death-doomed bodies, through means of his indwelling Spirit within you.
Hence, then, brethren—debtors, we are, not unto the flesh, that, according to flesh, we should live,—
For, if according to flesh ye live, ye are about to die, whereas, if in spirit, the practices of the flesh, ye are putting to death, ye shall attain unto life;
For, as many as by God’s Spirit are being led, the same, are God’s sons,—
For ye have not received a spirit of servitude, leading back into fear, but ye have received a spirit of sonship, whereby we are exclaiming—Abba! Oh Father!
The Spirit itself, beareth witness together with our spirit that we are children of God;
And, if children, heirs also—heirs, indeed, of God, but co-heirs with Christ,—if, at least, we are suffering together, in order that we may also be glorified together.
For I reckon that unworthy are the sufferings of the present season to be compared with the glory about to be revealed towards us;
For, the eager outlook of creation, ardently awaiteth the revealing of the sons of God,—
For, unto vanity, hath creation been made subject—not by choice, but by reason of him that made it subject, in hope
That, creation itself also, shall be freed—from the bondage of the decay into the freedom of the glory of the sons of God;
For we know that, all creation, is sighing together, and travailing-in-birth-throes together until the present,—
And, not only so, but, we ourselves, also, who have the first-fruit of the Spirit—[we] even ourselves, within our own selves do sigh,—sonship ardently awaiting—the redeeming of our body;—
For, by our hope, have we been saved,—but, hope beheld, is not hope, for, what one beholdeth, why doth he hope for?
If, however, what we do not behold we hope for, with endurance, are we ardently awaiting [it] ;—
In the selfsame way moreover, even the Spirit, helpeth together in our weakness,—for, what we should pray for as we ought, we know not, but, the Spirit itself, maketh intercession with sighings unutterable,
And, he that searcheth the hearts, knoweth what is preferred by the Spirit—that, according to God, he maketh intercession in behalf of saints;
We know, further, that, unto them who love God, God causeth all things to work together for good,—unto them who, according to purpose, are such as he hath called;
For, whom he fore-approved, he also fore-appointed to be conformed unto the image of his Son, that he might be firstborn among many brethren,—
And, whom he fore-appointed, the same, he also called, and, whom he called, the same, he also declared righteous, and, whom he declared righteous, the same, he also made glorious:—
What, then, shall we say to a these things? If God [is] for us, who [shall be] against us?
He, at least, who his own Son did not spare, but in behalf of us all delivered him up, how shall he not also, with him, all things upon us in favour bestow?
Who shall bring an accusation against the chosen ones of God? God, who declareth righteous?
Who is he that condemneth? Christ [Jesus] who died?—Nay! rather was raised [from among the dead],—who is on the right hand of God, who also is making intercession in our behalf?
Who shall separate us from the love of the Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?—
According as it is written—For thy sake, are we being put to death all the day long, we have been reckoned as sheep for slaughter.—
Nay, in all these things, we are more than conquering through him that hath loved us.
For I am persuaded that—neither death nor life, nor messengers nor principalities, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers,
Nor height nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.