Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion. Put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. For henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.
Shake thyself from the dust. Arise, sit up, O Jerusalem. Loose thyself from the bonds of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.
For thus says Jehovah: Ye were sold for nothing, and ye shall be redeemed without money.
For thus says the lord Jehovah, My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there. And the Assyrian has oppressed them without cause.
Now therefore, what do I do here, says Jehovah, seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Those who rule over them howl, says Jehovah, and because of you my name is continually blasphemed among the Gentiles.
Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore they shall know in that day that I am he who speaks, Behold, it is I.
How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of good, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, Thy God reigns!
The voice of thy watchmen! They lift up the voice; they sing together. For they shall see eye to eye, when Jehovah returns to Zion.
Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem, for Jehovah has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem.
Jehovah has made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.
Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from there. Touch no unclean thing. Go ye out of the midst of her. Cleanse yourselves, ye who bear the vessels of Jehovah.
For ye shall not go out in haste, nor shall ye go by flight. For Jehovah will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rearward.
Behold, my servant shall deal wisely. He shall be exalted and lifted up, and shall be very high.
Just as many were astonished at thee (his visage was so marred, more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men),
so shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths at him. For that which had not been told them they shall see, and that which they had not heard they shall understand.