Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge. But whoever hates correction is unwise.
Whoever is good shall draw grace from the Lord. But whoever trusts in his own thoughts acts impiously.
Man will not be made strong from impiety. And the root of the just shall not be moved.
A diligent woman is a crown to her husband. And she who acts with confusion as to which things are worthy is decay to his bones.
The thoughts of the just are judgments. And the counsels of the impious are dishonest.
The words of the impious lie in wait for blood. The mouth of the just shall free them.
Turn from the impious, and they will not be. But the house of the just shall stand firm.
A man will be known by his doctrine. But whoever is vain and heartless will suffer contempt.
Better is a pauper who has what he needs, than someone glorious and in need of bread.
The just one knows the lives of his beasts. But the inner most parts of the impious are cruel.
Whoever works his land shall be satisfied with bread. But whoever continually pursues leisure is most foolish. Whoever is soothed by lingering over wine leaves behind contempt in his strongholds.
The desire of the impious is the fortification of what is most wicked. But the root of the just shall prosper.
For the sins of the lips draw ruin to the evil. But the just shall escape from distress.
By the fruit of his own mouth, each one shall be filled with good things, and according to the works of his own hands, it will be distributed to him.
The way of the foolish is right in his own eyes. But whoever is wise listens to counsels.
The senseless immediately reveals his anger. But whoever ignores injuries is clever.
He is a sign of justice, who speaks what he knows. But whoever deceives is a dishonest witness.
He who makes promises is also jabbed, as if with a sword, in conscience. But the tongue of the wise is reasonable.
The lips of truth shall be steadfast forever. But a hasty witness readies a lying tongue.
Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evils. But gladness follows those who take up counsels of peace.
Whatever may befall the just, it will not discourage him. But the impious will be filled with disasters.
Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord. But whoever acts faithfully pleases him.
A resourceful man conceals knowledge. And the heart of the unwise provokes foolishness.
The hand of the strong will rule. But anyone who is neglectful will pay tribute.
Grief in the heart of a man humbles him. And with a good word he shall be made glad.
He who ignores a loss for the sake of a friend is just. But the way of the impious will deceive them.
The dishonest will not discover gain. But the substance of a man will be like precious gold.
In the path of justice, there is life. But the devious way leads to death.