Elihu also proceeded and sayde,
Suffer me a litle, and I will instruct thee: for I haue yet to speake on Gods behalfe.
I will fetche my knowledge afarre off, and will attribute righteousnes vnto my Maker.
For truely my wordes shall not be false, and he that is perfect in knowledge, speaketh with thee.
Behold, the mighty God casteth away none that is mighty and valiant of courage.
He mainteineth not the wicked, but he giueth iudgement to the afflicted.
He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous, but they are with Kings in ye throne, where he placeth them for euer: thus they are exalted.
And if they bee bound in fetters and tyed with the cordes of affliction,
Then will he shewe them their worke and their sinnes, because they haue bene proude.
He openeth also their eare to discipline, and commandeth them that they returne from iniquity.
If they obey and serue him, they shall end their dayes in prosperity, and their yeres in pleasures.
But if they wil not obey, they shall passe by the sworde, and perish without knowledge.
But the hypocrites of heart increase the wrath: for they call not when he bindeth them.
Their soule dyeth in youth, and their life among the whoremongers.
He deliuereth the poore in his affliction, and openeth their eare in trouble.
Euen so woulde he haue taken thee out of the streight place into a broade place and not shut vp beneath: and that which resteth vpon thy table, had bene full of fat.
But thou art ful of the iudgement of the wicked, though iudgement and equitie maintaine all things.
For Gods wrath is, least hee should take that away in thine abundance: for no multitude of giftes can deliuer thee.
Wil he regard thy riches? he regardeth not golde, nor all them that excel in strength.
Be not carefull in the night, howe he destroyeth the people out of their place.
Take thou heede: looke not to iniquitie: for thou hast chosen it rather then affliction.
Beholde, God exalteth by his power: what teacher is like him?
Who hath appointed to him his way? or who can say, Thou hast done wickedly?
Remember that thou magnifie his worke, which men behold.
All men see it, and men beholde it afarre off.
Beholde, God is excellent, and we knowe him not, neither can the nomber of his yeres bee searched out.
When he restraineth the droppes of water, the rayne powreth down by the vapour thereof,
Which raine the cloudes do droppe and let fall abundantly vpon man.
Who can know the diuisions of ye clouds and the thunders of his tabernacle?
Beholde, he spreadeth his light vpon it, and couereth the bottome of the sea.
For thereby hee iudgeth the people, and giueth meate abundantly.
He couereth the light with the clouds, and commandeth them to go against it.
His companion sheweth him thereof, and there is anger in rising vp.