And he went on to say, unto his disciples also,—There was, a certain rich man, who had a steward, and, the same, was accused to him as squandering his goods.
And, accosting him, he said unto him—What is this I hear of thee? Render the account of thy stewardship, for thou canst no longer be steward.
And the steward said within himself—What shall I do, because my lord taketh away the stewardship from me? Dig, I cannot: to beg, I am ashamed.
I know what I will do, that, when I am removed out of the stewardship, they may welcome me into their own houses.
And, calling unto him each one of the debtors of his own lord, he was saying unto the first,—How much owest thou my lord?
And, he, said—A hundred baths of oil. And, he, said unto him—Kindly take thine accounts, and, sitting down, make haste and write—Fifty!
After that, unto another, he said—And how much owest, thou? And, he, said—A hundred homers of wheat. He saith unto him—Kindly take thine accounts, and write—Eighty!
And the lord praised the unrighteous steward, in that with forethought he acted:—Because, the sons of this age, have more forethought than the sons of light, respecting their own generation.
And, I, unto you, say—For yourselves, make ye friends, with the unjust Riches, in order that, as soon as it shall fail, they may welcome you into the age-abiding tents.
The faithful in least, in much also, is, faithful, and, he that in least is unrighteous, in much also, is, unrighteous.
If therefore, in the unjust Riches ye proved unfaithful, the true, who, unto you, will entrust?
And, if, in what was another’s, ye proved unfaithful, your own, who will give unto you?
No domestic, can, unto two masters, be in service; for either, the one, he will hate, and, the other, love, or, unto the one, he will hold, and, the other, despise: Ye cannot, unto God, be in service, and unto Riches.
Now the Pharisees, who were, lovers of money, were hearing all these things, and were openly sneering at him.
And he said unto them—Ye, are they who justify themselves before men, but, God, knoweth your hearts; because, that which amongst men is lofty, is an abomination before God.
The law and the prophets, were until John,—from that time, the good news of the kingdom of God, is being proclaimed, and, everyone, thereinto, is forcing his way.
But it is, easier, for heaven and earth to pass away, than that, of the law, one little point, should fail.
Every one divorcing his wife and marrying another, committeth adultery; and, he that marrieth a woman divorced from a husband, committeth adultery.
Now, a certain man, was rich, and he used to clothe himself with purple and fine linen, making merry day by day, brilliantly.
And, a certain beggar, by name Lazarus, used to be cast near his gate, full of sores,
and to long to be fed from the crumbs that fell from the table of the rich man: nay! even, the dogs, used to come and lick his sores.
And it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried away by the messengers, into the bosom of Abraham. And, the rich man also, died, and was buried.
And, in hades, lifting up his eyes, being in torments, he seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
And, he, calling out, said—Father Abraham! have mercy upon me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue,—because I am in anguish in this flame.
But Abraham said—Child! remember—That thou didst duly received thy good things in thy life, and, Lazarus, in like manner, the evil things; but, now, here, he is comforted, and, thou, art in anguish.
And, besides all these things, betwixt us and you, a great chasm, hath been fixed,—so that, they who might wish to cross over from hence unto you, should not be able, nor any, from thence unto us, be crossing over.
But he said—I request thee then, father, that thou wouldst send him unto my father’s house,—
for I have five brethren;—that he may solemnly testify unto them, lest, they also, come into this place of torment.
But Abraham saith—They have Moses and the Prophets: Let them hearken unto them.
But, he, said—Nay! father Abraham, but, if one, from the dead, should go unto them, they would repent.
But he said unto him—If, unto Moses and the Prophets, they do not hearken, neither, if one, from among the dead, should arise, would they be persuaded.