And it happened that, when Jesus had completed these words, he moved away from Galilee, and he arrived within the borders of Judea, across the Jordan.
And great crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
And the Pharisees approached him, testing him, and saying, “Is it lawful for a man to separate from his wife, no matter what the cause?”
And he said to them in response, “Have you not read that he who made man from the beginning, made them male and female?” And he said:
“For this reason, a man shall separate from father and mother, and he shall cling to his wife, and these two shall become one flesh.
And so, now they are not two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let no man separate.”
They said to him, “Then why did Moses command him to give a bill of divorce, and to separate?”
He said to them: “Although Moses permitted you to separate from your wives, due to the hardness of your heart, it was not that way from the beginning.
And I say to you, that whoever will have separated from his wife, except because of fornication, and who will have married another, commits adultery, and whoever will have married her who has been separated, commits adultery.”
His disciples said to him, “If such is the case for a man with a wife, then it is not expedient to marry.”
And he said to them: “Not everyone is able to grasp this word, but only those to whom it has been given.
For there are chaste persons who were born so from their mother’s womb, and there are chaste persons who have been made so by men, and there are chaste persons who have made themselves chaste for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Whoever is able to grasp this, let him grasp it.”
Then they brought to him little children, so that he would place his hands upon them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them.
Yet truly, Jesus said to them: “Allow the little children to come to me, and do not choose to prohibit them. For the kingdom of heaven is among such as these.”
And when he had imposed his hands upon them, he went away from there.
And behold, someone approached and said to him, “Good Teacher, what good should I do, so that I may have eternal life?”
And he said to him: “Why do you question me about what is good? One is good: God. But if you wish to enter into life, observe the commandments.”
He said to him, “Which?” And Jesus said: “You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not give false testimony.
Honor your father and your mother. And, you shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
The young man said to him: “All these I have kept from my childhood. What is still lacking for me?”
Jesus said to him: “If you are willing to be perfect, go, sell what you have, and give to the poor, and then you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me.”
And when the young man had heard this word, he went away sad, for he had many possessions.
Then Jesus said to his disciples: “Amen, I say to you, that the wealthy shall enter with difficulty into the kingdom of heaven.
And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for the wealthy to enter into the kingdom of heaven.”
And upon hearing this, the disciples wondered greatly, saying: “Then who will be able to be saved?”
But Jesus, gazing at them, said to them: “With men, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible.”
Then Peter responded by saying to him: “Behold, we have left behind all things, and we have followed you. So then, what will be for us?”
And Jesus said to them: “Amen I say to you, that at the resurrection, when the Son of man shall sit on the seat of his majesty, those of you who have followed me shall also sit on twelve seats, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And anyone who has left behind home, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or land, for the sake of my name, shall receive one hundred times more, and shall possess eternal life.
But many of those who are first shall be last, and the last shall be first.”