The burden against Egypt: Behold, the LORD rides on a swift cloud and comes into Egypt. And the idols of Egypt shall tremble at His presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in its midst.
And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians; and they shall fight each man against his brother, and each against his neighbor; city against city, kingdom against kingdom.
And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst of it, and I will destroy its wisdom. And they shall seek to idols, and to the enchanters, and to the mediums, and to the future-tellers.
And I will shut up Egypt into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, says the Lord, The LORD of hosts.
And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall fail and dry up.
And rivers shall be fouled; the Nile of Egypt will languish and dry up; the reed and the rush shall decay.
Bare places shall be at the Nile, by the mouth of the Nile, and everything sown by the Nile shall dry up, driven away, and be no more.
The fishermen also shall mourn, and all who drop a hook into the Nile shall wail, and those who spread nets on the waters shall droop.
And the workers in fine flax, and the weavers of white cloth shall be ashamed.
And her foundations shall be broken, and all who make wages shall be sad of soul.
Surely the rulers of Zoan are fools, the counsel of the wise counselors of Pharaoh has become brutish. How do you say to Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?
Where are they? Where are your wise men? And let them tell you now, and let them know what the LORD of hosts has planned against Egypt.
The rulers of Zoan have become fools, the rulers of Noph are deceived; they have also caused Egypt to go astray, the chief of her tribes.
The LORD has mixed a perverse spirit in its midst; and they have caused Egypt to go astray in all its work, like a drunkard staggers in his vomit.
And Egypt shall have no work that the head or tail, branch or rush, may do.
In that day Egypt shall be like women; and it shall be afraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD of hosts, which He shakes over it.
And the land of Judah shall be a terror to Egypt; everyone who mentions it shall be afraid toward it, because of the purpose of the LORD of hosts, which He has purposed against it.
In that day five cities in the land of Egypt shall speak the language of Canaan and swear to the LORD of hosts; one shall be called the City of Ruin.
In that day there shall be an altar to the LORD in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at its border to the LORD.
And it shall be for a sign and for a witness to the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt. For they shall cry to the LORD because of the oppressors, and He shall send them a deliverer, and a great one, and will deliver them.
And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and Egypt shall know the LORD in that day, and shall offer sacrifice and offering; and vow a vow to the LORD, and repay.
And the LORD shall strike Egypt; He shall strike and heal; and they shall return to the LORD, and He shall hear them and shall heal them.
In that day there shall be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and Assyria shall come into Egypt, and Egypt into Assyria, and Egypt shall serve with Assyria.
In that day Israel shall be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the land;
whom the LORD of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be My people Egypt, and Assyria the work of My hands, and Israel My inheritance.