Gather yourselves, even gather, O nation not being longed for;
before the birth of the decree, the day shall pass like the chaff, yet not before the hot anger of Jehovah comes on you, yet not before the day of the anger of Jehovah comes on you.
Seek Jehovah, all the meek of the earth who have done His justice; seek righteousness; seek meekness. It may be you shall be hidden in the day of the anger of Jehovah.
For Gaza shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon a ruin. They shall drive Ashdod out at the noonday, and Ekron shall be rooted up.
Woe to the inhabitants of the seacoast, the nation of the Cherethites! The word of Jehovah is against you, Canaan, the land of the Philistines; I will destroy you so there not shall be an inhabitant.
And the seacoast shall be pastures, meadows of shepherds, and folds for the flock.
And the coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Judah; they shall feed on them. In the houses of Ashkelon, they shall lie down in the evening, for Jehovah their God shall visit them and return their captivity.
I have heard the reproach of Moab, and the curses of the sons of Ammon, with which they have cursed My people and have magnified themselves on their border.
So as I live, declares Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, surely Moab shall be as Sodom, and the sons of Ammon like Gomorrah, a possession of nettles, and a pit of salt, and a ruin forever. The remnant of My people shall plunder them, and the rest of the nation shall possess them.
They shall have this for their pride, because they have cursed and magnified themselves against the people of Jehovah of hosts.
Jehovah will be frightening to them, for He will make lean all the gods of the earth. Each man from his place and all the coastlands of the nations will bow to Him.
You also, O Ethiopians, shall be pierced by My sword.
And He will stretch out His hand against the north, and destroy Assyria, and will make Nineveh a desolation, dry like the desert.
And flocks shall lie down in her midst; all the beasts of a nation; both the pelican and the bittern shall lodge in the capitals of its pillars. A voice shall sing at the window; ruin shall be at the doorsill; for the cedar work He will bare.
This is the joyful city, dwelling confidently, who says in her heart, I am , and there is yet no other . How she has become a ruin, a restingplace for animals! Everyone who passes near her shall hiss; he shall shake his hand!