And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying—
When any person, shall sin, and shall commit a trespass against Yahweh,—and shall withhold something of the truth from his neighbour in respect of a deposit, or a pledge or anything plundered, or shall use extortion with his neighbour;
or shall find something lost and shall withhold something of the truth therein, and shall swear to a falsehood,—as regardeth a single thing of all that a son of earth may do, to commit sin thereby;
and so it shall come about that he shall commit sin and then become aware of his guilt, then shall he return the plunder which he had plundered, or the extortion which he had extorted, or the deposit that was deposited with him,—or the lost thing which he hath found:
or in anything as to which he hath been swearing to a falsehood, then shall he make it good in the principal thereof, and the fifth part thereof, shall he add thereunto,—to whomsoever it belongeth, to him, shall he give it in the day he becometh aware of his guilt;
but, his guilt-bearer, itself, shall he bring in unto Yahweh,—a ram without defect out of the flock by thine estimate as a guilt-bearer, unto the priest.
So shall the priest put a propitiatory-covering over him before Yahweh, and it shall be forgiven him,—on account of any one thing, of all which one might do, so as to become guilty therein.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses saying:
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the ascending-sacrifice,—the same, is the ascending-sacrifice, which is upon the hearth, upon the altar, all the night until the morning,—and the fire of the altar, shall be kept burning therein.
So then the priest shall put on his upper garment of linen, and, breeches of linen, shall he put on over his flesh, then shall he take up the fat-ashes, whereto the fire consumeth the ascending-sacrifice on the altar,—and shall put them beside the altar.
Then shall he put off his garments, and put on other garments,—and shall carry forth the fat-ashes unto the outside of the camp, unto a clean place,
And, the fire on the altar, shall be kept burning therein, it shall not be suffered to go out, but the priest shall kindle up thereon pieces of wood, morning by morning,—and shall set in order thereupon the ascending-sacrifice, and shall make a perfume thereon with the fat-pieces of the peace-offerings:
fire, shall continually be kept burning on the altar, it shall not be suffered to go out.
And, this, is the law of the meal-offering,—the sons of Aaron shall bring it near before Yahweh, unto the front of the altar.
Then shall one lift up therefrom a handful of the fine meal of the meal-offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is upon the meal-offering,—and shall make a perfume at the altar, an altar-flame of a satisfying odour, shall the memorial thereof be, unto Yahweh.
And the remainder thereof, shall Aaron and his sons eat,—as unleavened cakes, shall it be eaten, in a holy place, within the court of the tent of meeting, shall they eat it.
It shall not be baked into anything leavened, as their portion, have I given it, from among the altar-flames of Yahweh,—most holy, it is, like the sin-bearer, and like the guilt-bearer,
Any male among the sons of Aaron may eat it, an age-abiding statute to your generations from among the altar-flames of Yahweh,—every one that toucheth them shall be hallowed.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying—
This, is the oblation of Aaron and his sons, which they shall bring near unto Yahweh in the day when he is anointed, The tenth of an ephah of fine meal, as a continual meal-offering,—half thereof in the morning, and half thereof in the evening;
on a pan, with oil, shall it be made when well mingled, shalt thou bring it in,—in baked portions, as a meal-offering in pieces, shalt thou bring it near as a satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
And the priest that is anointed in his stead from among his sons, shall prepare it,—[it is] an age-abiding statute, that unto Yahweh, shall a perfume, of the entire gift, be made:
yea, every meal-offering of a priest, shall be, entire—it shall not be eaten.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying—
Speak unto Aaron and unto his sons, saying, This, is the law of the sin-bearer. In the place where the ascending-sacrifice is slain, shall the sin-bearer be slain, before Yahweh, most holy, it is.
The priest who maketh it a sin-bearer, shall eat it,—in a holy place, shall it be eaten, in the court of the tent of meeting.
Every one who toucheth the flesh thereof, shall be hallowed; and when one sprinkleth some of the blood thereof upon a garment, that whereon it was sprinkled, shalt thou wash in a holy place.
But, the earthen vessel wherein it is boiled, shall be broken,—or, if, in a vessel of bronze, it hath been boiled, then shall the vessel be scoured and rinsed in water.
Any male among the priests may eat thereof,—most holy, it is.
But, no sin-bearer whereof any of the blood is taken into the tent of meeting to make a propitiatory-covering in the sanctuary, shall be eaten,—with fire, shall it be consumed.