And when ye saboth daye was past Mary Magdalen and Mary Iacobi and Salome bought odures that they myght come and anoynt him.
And erly in the morninge the nexte daye after the saboth day they came vnto the sepulcre when the sunne was rysen.
And they sayd one to another: who shall rolle vs awaye the stone from the dore of the sepulcre?
And when they looked they sawe how the stone was rolled awaye: for it was a very greate one.
And they went into the sepulcre and sawe a yonge man syttinge on the ryght syde cloothed in a longe whyte garmet and they were abasshed.
And he sayd vnto the be not afrayed: ye seke Iesus of Nazareth which was crucified. He is rysen he is not here. Beholde the place where they put him.
But go youre waye and tell his disciples and namely Peter: he will goo before you into Galile: there shall ye se him as he sayde vnto you.
And they went oute quickly and fleed from the sepulcre. For they trembled and were amased. Nether sayd they eny thinge to eny man for they were afrayed.
When Iesus was rysen the morow after ye saboth daye he appered fyrst to Mary Magdalen oute of whom he cast seven devyls.
And she wet and toolde them that were with him as they morned and weapte.
And when they herde that he was alyve and he had appered to hyr they beleved it not.
After that he appered vnto two of them in a straunge figure as they walked and went into the country.
And they went and toolde it to the remnaunt. And they beleved them nether.
After that he appered vnto the eleve as they sate at meate: and cast in their tethe their vnbelefe and hardnes of herte: be cause they beleued not them which had sene him after his resurreccio.
And he sayd vnto them: Goo ye in to all the worlde and preache the glad tyges to all creatures
he that beleueth and is baptised shall be saved. But he that beleveth not shalbe dampned.
And these signes shall folowe them that beleve: In my name they shall cast oute devyls and shall speake with newe tonges
and shall kyll serpentes. And yf they drinke eny dedly thinge yt shall not hurte the. They shall laye their hondes on ye sicke and they shall recover.
So then when the lorde had spoken vnto them he was receaued into heauen and is set doune on the ryght honde of God.
And they went forth and preached every where. And the Lorde wrought with them and confirmed the worde with miracles that folowed.