And it came to pass, when Jehoshaphat had riches and honour, in abundance, that he contracted, by marriage, affinity with Ahab.
So he went down, at the end of some years, unto Ahab, to Samaria, Ahab therefore sacrificed for him, sheep and oxen, in abundance, also for the people whom he had with him,-and then persuaded him to go up against Ramoth-gilead.
For Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wilt thou go up with me to Ramoth-gilead? And he said unto him—So am I, even as thou, and, like thy people, are my people, and, with thee, in the war.
Then said Jehoshaphat, unto the king of Israel,—Seek, I pray thee, some time to-day, the word of Yahweh.
So the king of Israel gathered together the prophets, four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go up against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said—Go up, and may God deliver it into the hand of the king!
Then said Jehoshaphat, Is there not here a prophet of Yahweh, besides,—that we may seek, from him?
Then said the king of Israel unto Jehoshaphat—There is yet one man, by whom to seek Yahweh, but, I, hate him, for he is never prophesying, concerning me, anything good—but—all his days—evil, the same, is Micaiah, son of Imla. Then said Jehoshaphat, Let not the king say, so!
And the king of Israel called for a certain officer,—and said, Haste, Micaiah son of Imla!
Now, the king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat king of Judah, were sitting, each upon his throne, clothed in robes, and they were sitting in an open space, at the entrance of the gate of Samaria,—and, all the prophets, were prophesying before them.
Then did Zedekiah son of Chenaanah make him horns of iron,—and said—Thus, saith Yahweh, With these, shalt thou push Syria, until they are consumed.
And, all the prophets, were prophesying, so, saying,-Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and prosper, and Yahweh will deliver [it] into the hand of the king.
And, the messenger who went to call Micaiah, spake unto him, saying, Lo! the words of the prophets, with one mouth, are good for the king,—be thy word then, I pray thee, like one of theirs, so wilt thou speak good.
Then said Micaiah,—By the life of Yahweh, whatsoever my God shall say, that, must I speak.
Now, when he came unto the king, the king said unto him, Micah, shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And he said, Go ye up and prosper, and may they be delivered into your hand.
Then the king said unto him, How many times, must, I, be putting thee on oath,—that thou speak unto me nothing but the truth in the name of Yahweh?
So he said, I saw all Israel, scattered upon the mountains, like sheep that have no shepherd,-and Yahweh said, No masters, have these! let them return every man unto his own house, in peace.
Then said the king of Israel, unto Jehoshaphat,—Said I not unto thee, He wilt not prophesy concerning me anything good, but evil?
Then said he, Therefore, hear ye the word of Yahweh,—I saw Yahweh, sitting upon his throne, and, all the host of the heavens, standing, on his right hand and his left.
Then said Yahweh, Who will persuade Ahab king of Israel, that he may go up and fall in Ramoth-gilead? And one spake, saying after this manner, and another, saying after that manner.
Then came there forth a spirit and stood before Yahweh, and said, I, will persuade him. And Yahweh said unto him, Wherewith?
And he said, I will go forth and become a spirit of falsehood, in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said—Thou mayest persuade, moreover also, thou shalt prevail, go forth, and do, so.
Now, therefore, lo! Yahweh hath suffered a spirit of falsehood to be put into the mouth of these thy prophets,—but, Yahweh, hath spoken concerning thee—evil.
Then drew near Zedekiah son of Chenaanah, and smote Micaiah upon the cheek,—and said, Which then is the way the spirit of Yahweh passed from me, to speak with thee?
Then said Micaiah, Lo! thou shalt see, on that day when thou shalt enter into a chamber within a chamber, to hide thyself.
Then said the king of Israel, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him back unto Amon ruler of the city, and unto Joash son of the king;
and ye shall say, Thus, saith the king, Put ye this one into the prison,—and feed him with the bread of oppression, and with the water of oppression, until I return in peace.
Then said Micaiah, If thou do, at all return, in peace, Yahweh hath not spoken by me. And he said, Hear! ye peoples, all!
Then went up the king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat king of Judah, against Ramothgilead.
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, [I am about] to disguise myself, and enter into the battle, but, thou, put on thy robes. So the king of Israel disguised himself, and entered into the battle.
Now, the king of Syria, had commanded the captains of chariots which he had, saying, Ye shall not fight, with small [or] with great,—save with the king of Israel, alone.
So it came to pass, when the chariot-captains saw Jehoshaphat, that, they, said, The king of Israel, it is. And they compassed him about, to fight,—but Jehoshaphat made outcry, and, Yahweh, helped him, yea God allured them away from him.
And so it came to pass, when the chariot-captains saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him;
but, a certain man, drawing a bow in his innocence, smote the king of Israel between the shoulder-joints and the coat of mail,—wherefore he said to the charioteer, Turn thy hand, and convey me out of the host, for I am sore wounded.
But the battle increased on that day, and, the king of Israel, was propping himself up in the chariot before the Syrians, until evening,-and died at the time of the going in of the sun.