Now Sarai, Abram's wife, did not bear. And she had a female slave, an Egyptian, and her name was Hagar.
And Sarai said to Abram, Behold now, the LORD has kept me from bearing. I pray you, go in to my slave woman. It may be that I may be built by her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
And Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar her slave woman, the Egyptian, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife (after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan).
And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
And Sarai said to Abram, My wrong be upon you. I have given my slave woman into your bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. The LORD judge between me and you.
But Abram said to Sarai, Behold, your slave woman is in your hand. Do to her as it pleases you. And Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her face.
And the Angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
And He said, Hagar, Sarai's slave, where did you come from? and where will you go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.
And the Angel of the LORD said to her, Return to your mistress and submit yourself under her hands.
And the Angel of the LORD said to her, I will multiply your seed exceedingly, so that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
And the Angel of the LORD said to her, Behold, you are with child, and shall bear a son. And you shall call his name Ishmael, because the LORD has heard your affliction
And he will be a wild man. His hand will be against every man, and every man's hand against him. And he shall live in the presence of all his brothers.
And she called the name of the LORD who had spoken to her, You are a God of vision! For she said, Even here have I looked after Him that sees me?
Therefore the well was called The Well of the Living One Seeing Me. Behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
And Hagar bore Abram a son. And Abram called his son's name, which Hagar bore, Ishmael.
And Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.