And Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,
Can a man be useful to God, as he who is wise may be useful to himself?
Is it any pleasure to the Almighty that you are righteous, or gain to Him that you make your ways perfect?
Will He reprove you because of your reverence, or enter into judgment with you?
Is not your wickedness great, and your iniquity without measure?
For you have taken a pledge from your brother for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing.
You have not given water to the weary to drink, and you have held back bread from the hungry.
But as for the mighty man, he had the earth, and the honored man lived in it.
You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
Therefore snares are all around you, and sudden fear troubles you;
or darkness, so that you cannot see; and a flood of waters covers you.
Is not God high in Heaven? And behold the leading stars, for they are high.
And you say, What does God know? Can He judge through the dark cloud?
Clouds are a covering to Him, so that He does not see; and He walks in the circuit of Heaven.
Do you keep to the old way which wicked men have walked?
They were seized, but there was not time; their foundation was poured out by a flood;
who said to God, Depart from us; and, What can the Almighty do to them?
Yet He filled their houses with substance; and the wisdom of the wicked is far from me.
The righteous see it, and are glad; and the innocent laugh them to scorn.
Truly our foe is not cut down, and fire has eaten their wealth.
Now be of service with Him, and be at peace. Good shall come to you by them.
Please receive the law from His mouth and lay up His words in your heart.
If you return to the Almighty, you shall be built up; you shall put away injustice far from your tents.
Then you shall lay up gold like dust, and among the rock of the torrents of Ophir.
Yea, the Almighty shall be your gold and silver, a tower to you.
For then you shall have your delight in the Almighty, and shall lift up your face to God.
You shall make your prayer to Him, and He shall hear you, and you shall pay your vows.
You shall also order a thing, and it shall be fulfilled to you; and the light shall shine on your ways.
For they have humiliated you, and you shall say, Pride! And He shall save the lowly of eyes.
He shall deliver one not innocent, and will deliver by the pureness of your hands.