And He said to Moses, Come up to Jehovah, you and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy from the elders of Israel. And bow yourselves from a distance.
And let Moses approach by himself to Jehovah, and they shall not approach. And the people shall not go up with him.
And Moses came and told all the words of Jehovah to the people, and all the judgments. And all the people answered with one voice and said, We will do all the words which Jehovah has spoken.
And Moses wrote all the words of Jehovah. And he rose early in the morning and built an altar below the mountain, and twelve memorial pillars for the twelve tribes of Israel.
And he sent young men of the sons of Israel. And they offered up burnt offerings, and offered sacrifices of bullocks, peace offerings to Jehovah.
And Moses took half of the blood, and he put it in basins. And he sprinkled half of the blood on the altar.
And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the ears of the people. And they said We will do all that Jehovah has spoken, and we will hear.
And Moses took the blood and sprinkled on the people, and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant which Jehovah has cut with you concerning these words.
And Moses and Aaron went up with Nadab and Abihu, and seventy from the elders of Israel.
And they saw the God of Israel. And under His feet was as the work of a pavement of sapphire, and the same as the heavens for clearness.
And He did not stretch out His hand to the nobles of the sons of Israel. And they saw God, and they ate and drank.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Come up to Me to the mountain, and be there. And I will give to you the tablets of stone, and the law, and the commandments which I have written, to teach them.
And Moses rose up, and Joshua his attendant. And Moses went up to the mountain of God.
And he said to the elders, Wait here for us until we return to you. And, behold, Aaron, who is a master of matters, and Hur are with you; let him approach to them.
And Moses went up into the mountain. And a cloud covered the mountain.
And the glory of Jehovah dwelt on the mountain of Sinai. And the cloud covered it six days. And He called to Moses on the seventh day from the midst of the cloud.
And the appearance of the glory of Jehovah was like fire burning on the top of the mountain before the eyes of the sons of Israel.
And Moses came into the midst of the cloud, and he went up into the mountain. And Moses was in the mountain forty days and forty nights.