AFTER these things Jesus again shewed himself to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and he appeared in the following manner:
Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, the twin, and Nathaniel who was of Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of the disciples were together.
Simon Peter said to them, I am going a-fishing. They say to him, We too will go with thee. They went out, and got on board the vessel immediately; and that night they caught nothing.
But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood upon the beach: yet the disciples had not discovered that it was Jesus.
Then saith Jesus unto them, My youths, have ye any thing eatable? They answered him, No.
Then he said to them, Shoot the net on the right side of the vessel, and ye shall find fish. They shot it therefore, and now they were not able to drag it in from the quantity of fishes.
Then said that disciple whom Jesus loved to Peter, It is the Lord! Then Simon Peter, when he heard that it was the Lord, girt his coat round him, (for he was stripped,) and threw himself into the sea.
And the other disciples came in the little vessel, (for they were not far from land, only about two hundred cubits,) dragging the net with the fishes.
When therefore they were come to land, they saw a fire laid, and a fish upon it, and a loaf.
Jesus saith to them, Bring some of the fish which ye have just caught.
Simon Peter went aboard, and drew the net to land full of large fishes, to the number of a hundred and fifty-three: and though they were so many, yet was not the net rent.
Jesus saith to them, Come, dine. Now not one of the disciples dared inquire, Who art thou? conscious that it was the Lord.
Then Jesus cometh, and taketh the loaf, and distributed to them, and of the fish in like manner.
Now this was the third time Jesus had shewed himself to the disciples, after he rose from the dead.
When therefore they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith to him, Yes, Lord! thou knowest that I love thee. He saith to him, Feed my lambs.
He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith to him, Yes, Lord! thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep.
He saith to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said to him, Lord, thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love thee! Jesus saith to him, Feed my sheep.
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast a younger man, thou didst gird up thyself, and go about whithersoever thy choice led thee: but when thou shalt grow old, another person extending thy hands, shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not.
This he told him, to intimate by what kind of death he should glorify God. And having thus spoken, he said to him, Follow me.
Now Peter, turning about, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following; who also at the supper reclined on his bosom, and said, Lord, which is the person who betrayeth thee?
Peter looking at him, saith to Jesus, Lord, and what will become of this man?
Jesus saith to him, If I will that he abide till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou me.
Then this speech went forth among the disciples, as though this disciple was not to die: yet Jesus had not said to him, That he shall not die; but, If I will that he abide till I come, what is that to thee?
This is the disciple who is testifing of these things, and hath written these things: and we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if every particular was written, I am of opinion that the world itself would not be capable of retaining the books which should be written. Amen. \p