And Jehovah said to me, Take a big tablet and write in it with a man's pen: Make haste to plunder! Hasten to the prey!
And I took faithful witnesses to record for me, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.
And I drew near the prophetess. And she conceived, and bore a son. Then Jehovah said to me, Call his name, Hurry, plunder! Eagerly plunder!
For before the boy knows to cry, My father, or, My mother, the riches of Damascus and the plunder of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of Assyria.
Jehovah also spoke to me again, saying,
Because this people has refused the waters of Shiloah that flow softly, and rejoices in Rezin and Remaliah's son,
Behold, therefore the Lord also brings on them the channels of the River, mighty and many: the king of Assyria and all his glory. And he shall come up over all its channels, and go over all its banks.
And he shall pass through Judah. He shall overflow and go over. He shall reach to the neck; and his wings will be stretching out, filling the breadth of your land, O Immanuel.
O peoples, suffer evil, and be broken! And listen, all from the far places of the earth; gird yourselves, and be broken. Gird yourselves and be broken!
Counsel a counsel, and it is frustrated; speak a word, and it shall not rise; for God is with us.
For so Jehovah spoke to me with a strong hand, and taught me against walking in the way of this people, saying,
Do not say, A conspiracy, to everything of which this people says, A conspiracy! And do not fear its fear, and do not dread.
Sanctify Jehovah of Hosts Himself, and let Him be your fear; and let Him be your dread.
And He shall be for a sanctuary, and for a stone of stumbling, and for a rock of falling to the two houses of Israel; for a trap and for a snare to the dweller of Jerusalem.
And many among them shall stumble and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.
Bind up the testimony, seal the law among My disciples.
And I will wait on Jehovah, who hides His face from the house of Jacob; and I will look for Him.
Behold, I and the children whom Jehovah has given to me are for signs and wonders in Israel from Jehovah of Hosts, who dwells in Mount Zion.
And when they say to you, Seek to the mediums, and to wizards who peep and mutter; should not a people seek to its God, than for the living to seek to the dead?
To the law and to the testimony! If they do not speak according to this word, it is because there is no dawn to them!
And they shall pass through it, hard pressed and hungry. And it shall be, they shall be hungry; he will rave and curse his king and his God, and face upward.
And they shall look to the land. And, behold, trouble and darkness and gloom of anguish; and they are driven to darkness.