And it came to pass that Isaac, was old, and his eyes became too dim to see, so he called Esau his elder son and said unto him My son! And he said unto him, Behold me!
And he said, Behold, I pray thee, I am old,—I know not the day of my death.
Now, therefore, take I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and catch for me game;
and make for me dainty meats, such as I love and bring in to me, that I may eat,—To the end my soul may bless thee, ere yet I die!
Now, Rebekah, was hearkening, when Isaac spake unto Esau his son, and Esau went his way to the field, to catch game, to bring in.
Rebekah, therefore spake unto Jacob her son saying,—Lo! I heard thy father, speaking unto Esau thy brother, saying,
Bring in for me game and make for me dainty meats, that I may eat; and let me bless thee in the presence of Yahweh before my death.
Now, therefore my son, hearken unto my voice,—in that which I am commanding thee:
Go, I pray thee, unto the flock, and fetch me from thence two kids of the goats, fine ones,—that I may make of them dainty meats for thy father such as he loveth:
Then shalt thou take them in unto thy father and he shall eat,—To the end he may bless thee before his death.
And Jacob said unto Rebekah his mother, Lo! Esau my brother, is a hairy man, whereas, I, am a smooth man:
peradventure my father might feel me, then should I be in his eyes as one that mocketh,—and should bring upon myself a reproach, and not a blessing!
And his mother said to him, Upon me, be thy reproach my son,—only hearken unto my voice and go fetch [them] for me.
So he went, and fetched [them], and brought them in to his mother, and his mother made dainty meats, such as his father loved.
Then took Rebekah the garments of Esau her elder son, the costly ones, which were with her in the house,—and put them on Jacob her younger son:
and the, skins of the kids of the goats, put she upon his hands,—and on the smooth part of his neck;
then placed she the dainty meats and the bread, which she had made ready, in the hand of Jacob her son.
So he went in unto his father, and said My father! And he said Behold me! who art, thou, my son?
And Jacob said unto his father I, am Esau thy firstborn, I have made ready, as thou didst bid me. Rise, I pray thee, sit up, and eat thou of my game, To the end thy soul may bless me.
Then said Isaac unto his son. How is it thou hast been so quick in finding, my son? And he said, Because Yahweh thy God caused it so to fall out before me.
Then said Isaac unto Jacob. Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee my son—whether, thou thyself, art my son Esau, or not.
So Jacob came near unto Isaac his father, and he felt him; then said he the voice is the voice of Jacob; But, the hands, are the hands of Esau.
So he did not find him out, because, his hands were like the hands of Esau his brother hairy,—so he blessed him.
And he said, Thou thyself, art my son Esau? And he said, I am!
So he said, Bring it near to me., that I may eat of the game of my son, To the end my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him, and he did eat, and he brought in to him wine, and he drank.
Then Isaac his father said unto him,—Come thou near I pray thee and kiss me my son.
So he came near, and kissed him, and he smelled the smell of his garments and blessed him,—and said. See! the smell of my son, As the smell of a field, which Yahweh hath blessed;
Then, may God give thee of the dew of the heavens, And of the fatness of the earth,—And abundance of corn and new wine:
Let peoples serve thee And races bow down to thee, Become thou lord to thy brethren, And let the sons of thy mother bow down to thee,—He that curseth thee, be accursed! And he that blesseth thee, be blessed!
And it came to pass as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob,—yea it came to pass when Jacob, had only just gone forth, from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother, came in from his hunting.
Then, he too, made dainty meats, and brought in to his father,—and said to his father, Let my father rise that he may eat of the game of his son, To the end thy soul may bless me!
And Isaac his father said to him Who art, thou? And he said, I, am thy son thy firstborn, Esau.
Then did Isaac tremble with an exceeding great trembling, and said Who then was it that caught game and brought in to me and I did eat of all ere yet thou didst come in and I blessed him? Yea blessed, shall he remain!
When Esau heard the words of his father, then cried he out with an outcry loud and bitter exceedingly,—and said to his father, Bless even me also, O my father!
Then he said, Thy brother came in with deceit,—and took away thy blessing.
And he said, Is it because his name, is called, Jacob, that he hath tricked me, now twice? My birthright, he took away, And lo! now, he hath taken away my blessing! And he said, Hast thou not reserved for me a blessing?
Then answered Isaac and said to Esau,—Lo a lord, have I appointed him unto thee, And, all his brethren, have I given to him as servants, And with corn and new wine, have I sustained him,—And for thee—now, what can I do, my son?
And Esau said unto his father, But one blessing, hast thou, O my father? Bless, me also, O my father! And Esau lifted up his voice and wept.
Then answered Isaac his father and said unto him,—Lo! of the fat parts of the earth, shall be thy dwelling, And of the dew of the heavens, above;
And on thy sword, shalt thou live, And thy brother, shalt thou serve: But it shall come to pass when thou shalt rove at large, Then shalt thou break his yoke from off thy neck.
And Esau lay in wait for Jacob, on account of the blessing wherewith his father had blessed him,—and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father draw near, when I can slay Jacob my brother.
Then were told to Rebekah, the words of Esau her elder son, so she sent and called for Jacob, her younger son, and said unto him—Lo! Esau, thy brother, is consoling himself as touching thee, to slay thee.
Now, therefore, my son, hearken to my voice,—and rise flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran;
And thou shalt dwell with him a few days,—until that the wrath of thy brother turn away:
until the turning away of the anger of thy brother from thee, and he forget what thou hast done to him, and I send and fetch thee from thence. Wherefore should I lose, you both, in one day?
So then Rebekah said unto Isaac, I am disgusted with my life because of the daughters of Heth,—Should Jacob be taking a wife of the daughters of Heth, like these, of the daughters of the land, wherefore could I wish for life?