O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; For his mercy endureth for ever!
Let the redeemed of the LORD say it, Whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy;
Whom he hath gathered from the lands, From the east, the west, the north, and the south.
They were wandering in the wilderness, in a desert, They found no way to a city to dwell in.
They were hungry and thirsty, And their souls fainted within them.
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, And he delivered them out of their distress.
He led them in a straight way, Till they came to a city where they might dwell.
O let them praise the LORD for his goodness, For his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he satisfieth the thirsty, And the hungry he filleth with good.
They dwelt in darkness and the shadow of death, Being bound in affliction and iron;
Because they disobeyed the commands of God, And contemned the will of the Most High;
Their hearts he brought down by hardship; They fell down, and there was none to help.
But they cried to the LORD in their trouble, And he saved them out of their distresses;
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, And brake their bands asunder.
O let them praise the LORD for his goodness, For his wonderful works to the children of men!
For he hath broken the gates of brass, And cut the bars of iron asunder.
The foolish, because of their transgressions, And because of their iniquities, were afflicted;
They abhorred all kinds of food; They were near to the gates of death.
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, And he delivered them out of their distresses;
He sent his word, and healed them, And saved them from their destruction.
O let them praise the LORD for his goodness, For his wonderful works to the children of men!
Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, And declare his works with joy!
They who go down to the sea in ships, And do business in great waters,
These see the works of the LORD, And his wonders in the deep.
He commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, Which lifteth high the waves.
They mount up to the heavens, They sink down to the depths, Their soul melteth with distress;
They reel and stagger like a drunken man, And all their skill is vain.
Then they cry to the LORD in their trouble, And he saveth them out of their distresses;
He turneth the storm into a calm, And the waves are hushed;
Then they rejoice that they are still, And he bringeth them to their desired haven.
O let them praise the LORD for his goodness. For his wonderful works to the children of men!
Let them extol him in the congregation of the people, And praise him in the assembly of the elders!
He turneth rivers into a desert, And springs of water into dry ground;
A fruitful land into barrenness, For the wickedness of them that dwell therein.
He turneth the desert into a lake of water, And dry ground into springs of water;
And there he causeth the hungry to dwell, And they build a city for a dwelling-place,
And sow fields and plant vineyards, Which yield a fruitful increase.
He blesseth them, so that they multiply greatly, And suffereth not their cattle to decrease.
When they are diminished and brought low By oppression, affliction, and sorrow,
He poureth contempt upon princes, And causeth them to wander in a pathless wilderness;
But he raiseth the poor from their affliction, And increaseth their families like a flock.
The righteous see it and rejoice, And all iniquity shutteth her mouth.
Whoso is wise, let him observe this, And have regard to the loving-kindness of the LORD!