And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Make two trumpets of silver for yourself. You shall make them of hammered work, and they shall be to you for the calling of the congregation, and for causing the camps to pull up stakes .
And when they blow with them, all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And if they blow with one, then the rulers, the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall assemble to you.
And when you blow an alarm, the camps that lie on the east side shall then pull up.
And when you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that lie on the south side shall pull up; they shall blow an alarm for their journeys.
But when the assembly is gathered, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow with the trumpets. And they shall be to you for a never ending statute throughout your generations.
And when you go into battle in your land against the foe distressing you, then you shall blow with the trumpets, and you shall be remembered before Jehovah your God. And you shall be saved from your enemies.
And in the day of your gladness, and in your appointed times, and in your new moons, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings And they shall be to you for a memorial before your God. I am Jehovah your God.
And it happened in the second year, in the second month, in the twentieth of the month, the cloud went up from off the tabernacle of the testimony.
And the sons of Israel pulled up stakes in their journeyings from the wilderness of Sinai. And the cloud stayed on it in the wilderness of Paran.
And they pulled up first at the mouth of Jehovah, by the hand of Moses.
And in the front, the standard of the camp of the sons of Judah pulled up stakes , by their armies. And over its army was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Issachar was Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
And the tabernacle was taken down, and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari pulled up stakes , bearing the tabernacle.
And the standard of the camp of Reuben pulled up, by their armies. And over its army was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Gad was Eliasaph son of Deuel.
And the Kohathites pulled up, bearing the sanctuary. And others set up the tabernacle while they came.
And the standard of the camp of the sons of Ephraim pulled up, by their armies. And over its army was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
And the standard of the camp of the sons of Dan pulled up, to the rear of all the camps, by their armies. And over its army was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ocran.
And over the army of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
These were the journeyings of the sons of Israel according to their armies. And they pulled up stakes .
And Moses said to Hobab the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses' father in law, We are traveling to the place of which Jehovah has said, I will give it to you. Go with us, and we will do good to you; for Jehovah has spoken good concerning Israel.
And he said to him, I shall not go, but I shall go to my land and to my kindred.
And he said, Please do not forsake us, because you know as to how we encamp in the wilderness, and you shall be to us for eyes.
And it shall be when you go with us; yea, it shall be that what good Jehovah shall do to us, we shall do good to you.
And they pulled up from the mount of Jehovah three days' journey. And the ark of the covenant of Jehovah pulled out before them, three days' journey, to seek out a resting place for them.
And the cloud of Jehovah was on them by day as they pulled out from the camp.
And it happened when the ark pulled out, Moses said, Rise, O Jehovah, and Your enemies shall be scattered, and those hating You shall flee from Your presence.
And when it rested, he said, Return, O Jehovah, to the myriads the thousands of Israel.