And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
The sons of Israel shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the ensigns of their fathers' houses. They shall encamp round about opposite the tent of meeting.
And those who encamp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be those of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their armies. And the ruler of the sons of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were seventy-four thousand and six hundred.
And those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar. And the ruler of the sons of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar.
And his army, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-four thousand and four hundred.
Then the tribe of Zebulun. And the ruler of the sons of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon.
And his army, and those who were numbered of it, were fifty-seven thousand and four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Judah were a hundred eighty-six thousand and four hundred, according to their armies. They shall set forth first.
On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their armies. And the ruler of the sons of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.
And his army, and those who were numbered of it, were forty-six thousand and five hundred.
And those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon. And the ruler of the sons of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-nine thousand and three hundred.
Then the tribe of Gad. And the ruler of the sons of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-five thousand and six hundred and fifty.
All who were numbered of the camp of Reuben were a hundred fifty-one thousand and four hundred and fifty, according to their armies. And they shall set forth second.
Then the tent of meeting shall set forward, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps. As they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place, by their standards.
On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their armies. And the ruler of the sons of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were forty thousand and five hundred.
And next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh. And the ruler of the sons of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-two thousand and two hundred.
Then the tribe of Benjamin. And the ruler of the sons of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were thirty-five thousand and four hundred.
All who were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a hundred eight thousand and a hundred, according to their armies. And they shall set forth third.
On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan according to their armies. And the ruler of the sons of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were sixty-two thousand and seven hundred.
And those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher. And the ruler of the sons of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ochran.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were forty-one thousand and five hundred.
Then the tribe of Naphtali. And the ruler of the sons of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.
And his army, and those who were numbered of them, were fifty-three thousand and four hundred.
All that were numbered of the camp of Dan were a hundred fifty-seven thousand and six hundred. They shall set forth rearmost by their standards.
These are those who were numbered of the sons of Israel by their fathers' houses. All who were numbered of the camps according to their armies were six hundred three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites were not numbered among the sons of Israel, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
Thus did the sons of Israel. According to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so they encamped by their standards, and so they set forward, everyone by their families, according to their fathers' houses.