After that Iesus wet about in Galile and wolde not go about in Iewry for the Iewes sought to kill him.
The Iewes tabernacle feast was at honde.
His brethren therfore sayde vnto him: get ye hence and go into Iewry yt thy disciples maye se thy workes yt thou doest.
For ther is no man yt doeth eny thing secretly and he him selfe seketh to be knowen. Yf thou do soche thinges shewe thy selfe to the worlde.
For as yet his brethre beleved not in him.
Then Iesus sayd vnto them: My tyme is not yet come youre tyme is all waye redy.
The worlde canot hate you. Me it hateth: because I testify of it that the workes of it are evyll.
Go ye vp vnto this feast. I will not go vp yet vnto this feast for my tyme is not yet full come.
These wordes he sayde vnto them and abode still in Galile.
But assone as his brethren were goone vp then went he also vp vnto the feast: not openly but as it were prevely.
Then sought him the Iewes at ye feast and sayde: Where is he?
And moche murmurynge was ther of him amonge the people. Some sayde: He is good. Wother sayde naye but he deceaveth the people.
How be it no ma spake openly of him for feare of the Iewes
In ye middes of the feast Iesus went vp into the temple and taught.
And the Iewes marveylled sayinge: How knoweth he ye scriptures seynge yt he never learned?
Iesus answered them and sayde: My doctrine is not myne: but his that sent me.
If eny man will do his will he shall knowe of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speake of my selfe.
He that speaketh of him selfe seketh his awne prayse. But he that seketh his prayse that sent him the same is true and no vnrightewesnes is in him.
Dyd not Moses geve you a lawe and yet none of you kepeth ye lawe? Why goo ye aboute to kyll me?
The people answered and sayde: thou hast the devyll: who goeth aboute to kyll the?
Iesus answered and sayde to them: I have done one worke and ye all marvayle.
Moses therfore gave vnto you circumcision: not because it is of Moses but of the fathers. And yet ye on the Saboth daye circumcise a man.
If a man on the Saboth daye receave circumcision without breakinge of the lawe of Moses: disdayne ye at me because I have made a man every whit whoale on the saboth daye?
Iudge not after the vtter aperaunce: but iudge rightewes iudgement.
Then sayd some of them of Ierusalem: Is not this he who they goo aboute to kyll?
Beholde he speaketh boldly and they saye nothinge to him. Do the rulars knowe in dede that this is very Christ?
How be it we knowe this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh no man shall knowe whence he is.
Then cryed Iesus in ye temple as he taught sayinge: ye knowe me and whence I am ye knowe. And yet I am not come of my selfe but he yt sent me is true whom ye knowe not.
I knowe him: for I am of him and he hath sent me.
Then they sought to take him: but no ma layde hondes on him because his tyme was not yet come.
Many of the people beleved on him and sayde: when Christ cometh will he do moo miracles then this man hath done?
The pharises hearde that the people murmured suche thinges about him. Wherfore ye pharises and hye prestes sent ministres forthe to take him.
Then sayde Iesus vnto the: Yet am I a lytell whyle with you and then goo I vnto him that sent me.
Ye shall seke me and shall not fynde me: and where I am thyther can ye not come.
Then sayde the Iewes bitwene the selves: whyther will he goo that we shall not fynde him? Will he goo amonge the gentyls which are scattered all a broade and teache the gentyls?
What maner of sayinge is this that he sayde: ye shall seke me and shall not fynde me: and where I am thyther can ye not come?
In the last daye that great daye of the feaste Iesus stode and cryed sayinge: If eny man thyrst let him come vnto me and drinke.
He that beleveth on me as sayeth the scripture out of his belly shall flowe ryvers of water of lyfe.
This spak he of the sprete which they that beleved on him shuld receave. For the holy goost was not yet there because that Iesus was not yet glorifyed.
Many of the people when they hearde this sayinge sayd: of a truth this is a prophet
Other sayde: this is Christ. Some sayde: shall Christ come out of Galile?
Sayeth not the scripture that Christ shall come of the seed of David: and out of the toune of Bethleem where David was?
So was ther dissencion amonge the people aboute him.
And some of them wolde have taken him: but no man layed hondes on him.
Then came ye ministres to ye hye prestes and pharises. And they sayde vnto the: why have ye not brought him?
The servautes answered never man spake as this man doeth.
Then answered the the pharises: are ye also disceaved?
Doth eny of the rulers or of the pharises beleve on him?
But the comen people whiche knowe not ye lawe are cursed.
Nicodemus sayde vnto them: He that came to Iesus by nyght and was one of them.
Doth oure lawe iudge eny man before it heare him and knowe what he hath done?
They answered and sayde vnto him: arte thou also of Galile? Searche and loke for out of Galile aryseth no Prophet.
And every man went vnto his awne housse.