Does not wisdom call? And does not understanding speak?
She stands in the top of high places, by the wayside, in the houses of the paths,
beside the gates; before the entrance of the city, at the doors, she cries.
I call to you, O men, and my voice is to the sons of men.
Understand wisdom, simple ones; and fools, be of an understanding heart.
Hear, for I will speak of excellent things, and from the opening of my lips shall be right things.
For my mouth shall speak of truth, and wickedness is hateful to my lips.
All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; nothing crooked or perverse is in them;
they are all plain to the understanding one; and right to those who find knowledge.
Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge, rather than choice gold.
For wisdom is better than jewels, and all delights cannot be compared to it.
I, wisdom, dwell with sense, and I find knowledge of discretions.
The fear of Jehovah is to hate evil; I hate pride and loftiness, and the evil way, and the perverse mouth.
Counsel and sound wisdom are mine; I am understanding; I have strength.
By me kings reign, and princes decree righteousness.
Rulers and nobles rule by me, and all the judges of the earth.
I love those who love me, and those who seek me early find me.
Riches and honor are with me; enduring wealth and righteousness.
My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my increase is better than the best silver.
I walk in the path of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of justice;
to cause those who love me to inherit wealth, and I will fill up their treasuries.
Jehovah possessed me in the beginning of His way, from then, before His works.
I was set up from everlasting, from that which was before the earth.
When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no springs heavy with water.
Before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth;
before He had made the earth and the fields, or the highest part of the dust of the world.
When He prepared the heavens, I was there; when He set a circle on the face of the deep,
when He set the clouds above, when He made the strong fountains of the deep,
when He gave to the sea its limit, that the waters should not beyond His command; when He decreed the foundations of the earth,
then I was at His side, like a master workman; and I was His delights day by day, rejoicing before Him at every time;
rejoicing in the world, His earth; and my delight was with the sons of men.
And now listen to me, O sons, for blessed are those who keep my ways.
Hear instruction, and be wise, and do not refuse it.
Blessed is the man listening to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.
For whoever finds me finds life, and he shall obtain favor from Jehovah.
But he who sins against me does violence to his own soul; all who hate me love death.