He being wounded, crushed, or cut in his male member shall not enter into the assembly of Jehovah.
An illegitimate child shall not enter into the assembly of Jehovah, even to the tenth generation none of his shall enter into the assembly of Jehovah.
An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter into the assembly of Jehovah; even to the tenth generation shall none of them enter into the assembly of Jehovah, perpetually;
because they did not meet you with bread and with water in the way when you came out of Egypt; and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor, from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you.
But Jehovah your God would not listen to Balaam, and Jehovah your God turned the curse into a blessing to you, because Jehovah your God loved you.
You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days, perpetually.
You shall not despise an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not despise an Egyptian, for you were an alien in his land;
sons of the third generation that are born to them may enter into the assembly of Jehovah.
When you go forth into camp against your enemies, then keep yourself from every evil thing.
If there is among you any man who is not clean because of an accident at night, then he shall go to the outside of the camp; he shall not come in to the middle of the camp.
And it shall be, as evening is turning, he shall bathe with water, and as the sun is going, he shall come into the middle of the camp.
Also you shall have a place outside the camp, and you shall go out there.
And you shall have an instrument on your staff. And it shall be, as you sit outside, you shall dig with it, and shall turn back, and shall cover that which comes from you.
For Jehovah your God walks in the middle of your camp to deliver you and to give up your enemies before you; therefore your camp shall be holy, so that He may see no unclean thing in you, and turn away from you.
You shall not hand over to his master a slave that has escaped from his master to you.
He shall live with you, among you, in the place which he chooses inside one of your gates, wherever it is pleasing to him. You shall not oppress him.
There shall be no prostitute among the daughters of Israel, nor shall there be a homosexual among the sons of Israel.
You shall not bring the hire of a prostitute, or the price of a dog, into the house of Jehovah your God for any vow; for even both of these are an abomination to Jehovah your God.
You shall not lend at interest to your brother; interest of silver, interest of food, interest of anything loaned at interest.
You may lend to a stranger at interest, but you shall not lend at interest to your brother, so that Jehovah your God may bless you in all that you put your hand to, in the land where you go to possess it.
When you shall vow a vow to Jehovah your God, you shall not delay to perform it; for Jehovah your God will certainly require it of you, and it shall be sin to you.
But if you shall forebear to vow, it shall be no sin to you.
That which has gone out of your lips, you shall keep, and shall do it. According as you have vowed as a freewill offering to Jehovah your God, do even that which you have promised with your mouth.
When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, then you may eat grapes to your fill, at your pleasure. But you shall not put any in your vessel.
When you come into your neighbor's standing grain, then you may pluck heads with your hand; but you shall not move a sickle into your neighbor's standing grain.