And it came to pass, after this, that the king of the sons of Ammon died,—and that Hanun his son reigned in his stead.
Then said David—I will shew lovingkindness unto Hanun son of Nahash, as his father shewed, unto me, lovingkindness. So David sent to comfort him, by the hand of his servants, as to his father,—and the servants of David came into the land of the sons of Ammon.
Then said the rulers of the sons of Ammon unto Hanun their lord—Is David honouring thy father, in thine eyes, that he hath sent unto thee comforters? Is it not, for the sake of exploring the city, and spying it out, and overthrowing it, that David hath sent his servants unto thee?
Wherefore Hanun took David’s servants, and shaved off half their beards, and cut off their upper garments in the middle, as far as their buttocks,—and let them go.
And, when they told David, he sent to meet them, because the men were greatly ashamed,—and the king said—Tarry at Jericho, until your beards be grown, then shall ye return.
And, when the sons of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious with David, the sons of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Beth-rehob, and the Syrians of Zoba—twenty thousand footmen, and of king Maacah—a thousand men, and men of Tob—twelve thousand men.
And, when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of heroes,
And the sons of Ammon came out, and set in array for battle, at the entrance of the gate,—whereas, the Syrians of Zoba, and of Rehob, and the men of Tob and of Maacah, were by themselves, in the field.
And, when Joab saw that the front of the battle was towards him, before and behind, he chose out of all the chosen men of Israel, and set them in array against the Syrians;
while, the rest of the people, he delivered into the hand of Abishai his brother,—and set [them] in array against the sons of Ammon.
And he said—If the Syrians be too strong for me, then shalt thou become my deliverance,—but, if, the sons of Ammon, be too strong for thee, then will I come with deliverance to thee.
Be strong, and let us put forth our strength, for the sake of our people, and for the sake of the cities of our God,—and, Yahweh, do what is good in his own eyes.
And Joab drew nigh, and the people that were with him, to fight against the Syrians,—and they fled before him.
And, when, the sons of Ammon, saw that the Syrians had fled, then fled they before Abishai, and entered the city,—so Joab returned from the sons of Ammon, and entered Jerusalem.
And, when the Syrians saw that they were defeated before Israel, they gathered themselves together;
and Hadadezer sent and brought out the Syrians that were beyond the River, and they entered Helam,—Shobach the prince of the host of Hadadezer being before them.
And, when it was told David, he gathered together all Israel, and passed over the Jordan, and entered Helam,—and the Syrians set themselves in array to meet David, and fought with him.
Then fled the Syrians before Israel, and David slew of the Syrians seven hundred chariots, and forty thousand horsemen,—Shobach also, prince of their host, smote he, that he died, there.
And, when all the kings who were servants to Hadadezer saw that they were defeated before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and served them,—and the Syrians feared to give help any more unto the sons of Ammon.