A soft answer, turneth away wrath, but a cutting word raiseth anger.
The tongue of the wise, adorneth knowledge,—but, the mouth of dullards, belcheth out folly.
In every place, are the eyes of Yahweh, observing the evil and the good.
Gentleness of the tongue, is a tree of life, but, crookedness therein, a grievous wound in the spirit.
A foolish [son], spurneth the correction of his father, but, he that heedeth a reproof, sheweth prudence.
The household of the righteous man, is a great treasure, but, in the increase of the lawless, is disturbance.
The lips of the wise, scatter abroad knowledge, but, the heart of dullards, is not right.
The sacrifice of lawless men, is an abomination to Yahweh, but, the prayer of the upright, is his delight.
An abomination to Yahweh, is the way of the lawless, but, the pursuer of righteousness, he loveth.
There is, grievous correction, for him that forsaketh the right path, He that hateth rebuke, shall die.
Hades and destruction, are before Yahweh, how much more then, the hearts of the sons of men.
A scoffer, loveth not, one who reproveth him, unto the wise, doth he not go.
A joyful heart, maketh a pleasing countenance,—but, in sorrow of heart, is a stricken spirit.
The heart of the intelligent, seeketh knowledge, but, the mouth of dullards, feedeth on folly.
All the days of the afflicted, are sorrowful, but, a cheerful heart, is a continual banquet.
Better is a little, with the reverence of Yahweh, than great treasure, and disquietude therewith.
Better is an allowance of herbs, and love, there, than a fatted ox, and hatred therewith.
A wrathful man, stirreth up strife, but, he that is slow to anger, calmeth contention.
The way of the sluggard, is like a thorn hedge, but, the path of the upright, is a raised road.
A wise son, maketh a glad father,—but, a dullard, despiseth his own mother.
Folly, is joy to him that lacketh sense,—but, a man of understanding, taketh a straight course.
Plans, are frustrated, for lack of consultation, but, by the multitude of counsellors, shall counsel, be established.
A man hath joy, in the answer of his own mouth, and, a word in its season,—how good!
The way of life, is upwards to the prudent, that he may depart from hades beneath.
The house of proud men, will Yahweh tear down, but he will maintain the boundary of the widow.
An abomination to Yahweh, are the plottings of the wicked, but, with the pure, are sayings of sweetness.
He, troubleth his own house, who graspeth with greed, but, he that hateth gifts, shall live.
The heart of the righteous, studieth to answer, but, the mouth of the lawless, belcheth out mischiefs.
Far off is Yahweh, from the lawless, but, the prayer of the righteous, will he hear.
The sparkling of bright eyes, rejoiceth the heart, Good news, giveth marrow to the bones.
The ear that heareth the reproof which giveth life, in the midst of the wise, shall remain.
He that declineth correction, despiseth his own soul, but, he that heareth reproof, gaineth sense.
The reverence of Yahweh, is the correction of wisdom, and, before honour, is humility.