The words of king Lemuel, the burden that his mother taught him:
What, my son? And what, the son of my womb? And what, the son of my vows?
Do not give your strength to women, or your ways to that which wipes out kings.
It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, nor for princes to lust for fermented drink,
that they not drink and forget what is decreed, and pervert the right of the afflicted ones.
Give fermented drink to one perishing, and wine to the bitter of soul,
let him drink and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.
Open your mouth for the dumb, in the cause of all the sons of those passing away.
Open your mouth, judge righteously, and defend the poor and needy.
Who can find an able woman? For her value is far above jewels.
The heart of her husband trusts in her, so that he has no lack of gain.
She deals good with him, and not evil, all the days of her life.
She seeks wool and flax, and she works with her palms with delight.
She is like the merchant ships, she brings in her food from afar.
She also rises while it is still night, and gives game to her household, and an order to her maidens.
She has examined a field, and takes it, she plants a vineyard from the fruit of her hands.
She has girded her loins with strength, and has made her arms strong.
She tastes whether her gain is good; her lamp does not go out by night.
She has sent forth her hands on the distaff, and her palms have held the spindle.
She spreads out her palms to the poor, yea, she reaches out her hands to the needy.
She is not afraid of the snow for her household, for all her household are clothed with scarlet.
She makes herself ornamental coverings, her clothing is fine linen and purple.
Her husband is known in the gates, when he sits with the elders of the land.
She makes fine linen garments, and sells, and she delivers belts to the merchant.
Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she shall rejoice at the day to come.
She opens her mouth in wisdom, and the law of kindness is on her tongue.
She watches the ways of her household, and does not eat the bread of idleness.
Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also , for he praises her:
Many are the daughters who work ably, but you rise above them all!
Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears Jehovah, she shall be praised.
Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates.