And it came to pass, in the days of Amraphel, king of Shinar, Arioch, king of Ellasar,—Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goim,
that they made war, with Bera, king of Sodom, and with Birsha, king of Gomorrah,—Shinab, king of Admah, and Shemeber, king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela—the same, is Zoar.
All these, joined together in the valley of the open fields, the same, is the Salt Sea.
Twelve years, had they served Chedorlaomer,—but in the thirteenth year had they rebelled;
and in the fourteenth year, had Chedorlaomer come in and the kings who were with him, so they smote the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham,—and the Emim, in Shaveh-kiriathaim;
and the Horites in their Mount Seir,—as far as El-paran, which is by the desert.
So they returned and came in unto En-mishpat, the same, is Kadish, and smote all the field of the Amalekites,—and the Amorites also that dwelt in Hazazon-tamar,
Thus then went forth the King of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah and the king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela the same, is Zoar—and set themselves in array against them for battle, in the valley of the open fields:
against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar,—four kings against five.
Now, the valley of the open fields, had many pits of bitumen, so the king of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there,—while, they who remained, towards a mountain, fled.
And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their food and went their way.
And they took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son with his goods, and went their way,—he, being a dweller in Sodom.
Then came in a fugitive, and told Abram the Hebrew,—he, having his dwelling among the oaks of Mamre the Amorite brother of Eshcol and brother of Aner, they, also having a covenant with Abram.
So Abram, hearing that his brother had been taken captive, drew forth his trained men born in his house three hundred and eighteen, and pursued as far as Dan.
And he divided himself against them by night, he, and his servants, and smote them,—and pursued them as far as Hobah, which was on the left of Damascus.
So he brought back all the goods,—yea Lot also his brother with his goods, did he bring back, and the women also, and the people.
Then came forth the king of Sodom to meet him, after his return from the smiting of Chedorlaomer, and the kings who were with him,—into the vale of Shaveh the same, was the vale of the king.
Now Melchizedek king of Salem, had brought forth bread and wine,—he, being priest of GOD Most High.
So he blessed him and said,—Blessed be Abram of GOD Most High, possessor of [the] heavens and earth;
And blessed be GOD Most High, who hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. So he gave unto him a tenth of all.
Then said the king of Sodom unto Abram,—Give unto me the persons, but the goods, take thou for thyself.
And Abram said unto the king of Sodom,—I have lifted up my hand unto Yahweh GOD Most High, possessor of [the] heavens and earth:
That not from a thread even unto a sandal-thong,—will I take, anything, that is thine,—Lest thou shouldst say, I, enriched Abram!
Save only what the young men have eaten, and the share of the men who went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre, they may take their share.