Now there were present some, in that very season, bringing tidings to him, concerning the Galilaeans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
And, answering, he said unto them—Suppose ye, that, these Galilaeans, had become, sinners beyond all the Galilaeans, because, these things, they have suffered?
Nay! I tell you, but, except ye repent, ye, all, in like manner, shall perish.
Or, those eighteen, upon whom fell the tower in Siloam, and slew them, suppose ye that, they, had become, debtors, beyond all the men who were dwelling in Jerusalem?
Nay! I tell you, but, except ye repent, ye, all, in the same way, shall perish.
And he went on to speak this parable:—A certain man had, a fig-tree, planted in his vineyard, and he canto seeking fruit therein, and found none.
And he said unto the vine-dresser—Lo! three years, I come, seeking fruit in this fig-tree, and find none. Cut it down! Why doth it make, even the round useless?
And, he, answering, saith unto him—Sir! let it alone this year also, until such time as I dig about it, and throw in manure,—
and if it may bear fruit for the future; …but, otherwise, certainly, thou shalt cut it down.
And he was teaching in one of the synagogues, on the Sabbath.
And lo! a woman, having a spirit of weakness eighteen years,—and was bowed together, and unable to lift herself up, at all.
And, seeing her, Jesus called her and said to her—Woman! thou art loosed from thy weakness,—
and laid on her his hands; and, instantly, she was made straight again, and began glorifying God.
But the synagogue-ruler, answering, being greatly displeased that, on the Sabbath, Jesus had healed, began saying unto the multitude—Six days, there are, in which men ought to get their work done; On them, therefore, come and be healed, and, not on the day of rest.
The Lord answered him, and said—Hypocrites! Doth not, each one of you, on the Sabbath, loose his ox or ass from the manger, and, leading it away, give it drink?
But, this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound, lo! eighteen years, was there not a needs-be that she should be loosed from this bond, on the day of rest?
And, as he was saying, these, things, all who had been setting themselves against him were being put to shame; and, all the multitude, were rejoicing over all the glorious things which were being brought to pass by him.
He went on to say, therefore—Whereunto, is the kingdom of God, like? And, whereunto, shall I liken it?
It is, like, unto a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his own garden; and it grew, and became a tree, and, the birds of heaven, lodged amongst its branches.
And, again, he said—Whereunto, shall I liken the kingdom of God?
It is, like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until, the whole, was leavened.
And he was journeying on, city by city and village by village, and making, progress, unto Jerusalem.
And one said unto him—Lord! are they, few, who are being saved? And, he, said unto them—
Be striving to enter through the narrow door; for, many, I say unto you, will seek to enter, and will not be able,—
when once the householder shall rouse himself, and lock the door, and ye begin to stand, outside, and to knock at the door, saying—Lord! open to us; and he shall answer and say unto you—I know you not, whence ye are.
Then, will ye begin to say—We did eat and drink in thy presence, and, in our broadways, thou didst, teach;
And he will speak, saying unto you—I know not whence ye are; Depart from me, all workers of unrighteous—
There, will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, as soon as ye see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and, yourselves, being thrust forth outside.
And they shall have come from east and west, and from north and south, and be made recline in the kingdom of God.
And lo! there are, last, who shall be, first, and there are, first, who shall be, last;
In that very hour, came near certain Pharisees, saying unto him, Go forth, and be journeying hence, because, Herod, desireth to slay thee.
And he said unto them—Go and tell this fox, Lo! I am casting out demons, and, cures, am I finishing, to-day, and to-morrow,—
and, on the third, I am to be made perfect. Nevertheless, I must needs, to-day, and tomorrow, and the following, be journeying on, because it is impossible that a prophet perish, outside Jerusalem.
Jerusalem! Jerusalem! she that slayeth the prophets, and stoneth them that are sent unto her! How often, have I desired to gather together thy children, like as a hen, her own brood, under her wings,—and ye did not desire!
Lo! your house is left to you. [And] I say unto you—In nowise shall ye see me, until ye say,—Blessed, is he that cometh in the name of the Lord!