Hear this word that Jehovah has spoken against you, sons of Israel, against all the family which I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying:
You only have I known of all the families of the earth. On account of this, I will punish you for all your iniquities.
Will two walk together unless they are agreed?
Will a lion roar in the forest when there is no prey for him? Will a young lion cry out of his den unless he has caught?
Will a bird fall into a trap on the ground, and there is no bait for it? Will a trap spring up from the ground, and nothing at all be caught?
If a ram's horn is blowing in a city, will the people not also tremble? If there is a calamity in a city, has Jehovah not even done it ?
For the Lord Jehovah will do nothing unless He reveals His secret to His servants the prophets.
A lion has roared. Who will not fear? The Lord Jehovah has spoken, who will not prophesy?
Make it heard at the palaces in Ashdod, and at the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Gather yourselves on the mountains of Samaria and see many panics in its midst, and oppressions in its midst.
For they do not know to do right, declares Jehovah, those who store up violence and robbery in their palaces.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: An enemy! And he shall be all around the land. And he shall bring you down from your fortress, and your palaces shall be plundered.
So says Jehovah, As the shepherd takes two legs out of the mouth of the lion, or a piece of an ear, so shall the sons of Israel be taken out, those who dwell in Samaria in a corner of a bed, and in Damascus on a couch.
Hear and testify in the house of Jacob, declares the Lord Jehovah, the God of hosts.
For in the day I visit the transgressions of Israel on him, I will also visit on the altars of Bethel. And the horns of the altar will be cut off and will fall to the ground.
And I will strike the winter house with the summer house; and the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall be swept away, declares Jehovah.