And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness
forty days, being tempted by the Devil. And in those days He ate nothing. And they being ended, He afterward was hungry.
And the Devil said to Him, If you are the Son of God, speak to this stone that it might become bread.
And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written that "man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God."
And the Devil, leading Him up into a high mountain, showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
And the Devil said to Him, All this power I will give you, and the glory of them; for it has been delivered to me. And I give it to whomever I will.
Therefore if you will worship me, all shall be yours.
And Jesus answered and said to him, Get behind me, Satan! For it is written, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve."
And he brought Him to Jerusalem and sat Him on a pinnacle of the temple and said to Him, If you are the Son of God, cast yourself down from here.
For it is written, "He shall give His angels charge over You, to keep You;
and in their hands they shall bear You up, lest at any time You dash Your foot against a stone."
And Jesus answering said to him, It has been said, "You shall not tempt the Lord your God."
And when the Devil had ended every temptation, he departed from Him for a time.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And a report went out throughout all the neighborhood concerning Him.
And He taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up. And, as His custom was, He went in to the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read.
And the book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. And unrolling the book, He found the place where it was written,
"The Spirit of the Lord is on Me; because of this He has anointed Me to proclaim the Gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim deliverance to the captives, and new sight to  the blind, to set at liberty those having been crushed,
to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord."
And rolling up the book, returning it to the attendant, He sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fastened on Him.
And He began to say to them, Today this Scripture is fulfilled in your ears.
And all bore witness to Him and wondered at the gracious words which came out of His mouth. And they said, Is this not Joseph's son?
And He said to them, You will surely say this proverb to Me, Physician, heal yourself. Whatever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in your native-place.
And He said, Truly I say to you, No prophet is accepted in his native-place.
But I tell you truly, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land.
But Elijah was not sent to any of them, except to Zarephath, a city of Sidon, to a woman, a widow.
And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed except Naaman the Syrian.
And hearing these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath.
And they rose up and thrust Him outside the city, and led Him up to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, in order to throw Him down.
But passing through the midst of them, He went away.
And He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath days.
And they were astonished at His doctrine, for His word was with authority.
And in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon and cried out with a loud voice,
saying, Let us alone! What is to us and to You, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know You, who You are, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him! And when the demon had thrown him into the midst, he came out of him, not harming him.
And they were all amazed and spoke among themselves, saying, What a word is this! For with authority and power He commands the unclean spirits, and they come out.
And a report about Him went out into every place of the neighborhood.
And rising up from the synagogue, He entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was being seized with a great fever. And they asked Him for her.
And standing over her, He rebuked the fever. And it left her. And immediately she arose and served them.
And the sun sinking, all, as many as had sick ones with different kinds of diseases brought them to Him. And laying hands on each of them, He healed them.
And also demons came out of many, crying out and saying, You are the Christ, the Son of God! And rebuking them, He did not allow them to speak; for they knew Him to be the Christ.
And day coming on, going out, He went into a deserted place. And the crowds looked for Him and came to Him, and held Him fast, not to pass away from them.
And He said to them, I must proclaim the gospel, the kingdom of God, to other cities, because I was sent on this mission,
And He proclaimed in the synagogues of Galilee.