And, Jesus, full of Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led in the Spirit in the desert,
forty days,—being tempted by the adversary; and he did eat nothing in those days,—and, when they were concluded, he hungered.
And the adversary said to him—If thou art God’s, Son, speak unto this stone; that it become bread.
And Jesus made answer unto him—It is written: Not, on bread alone, shall, man, live.
And, leading him up, he shewed him all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth, in a moment of time.
And the adversary said to him—Unto thee, will I give this authority, all together, and their glory; because, unto me, hath it been delivered up, and, to whomsoever I please, I give it:
Thou, therefore, if thou wilt worship before me, it shall all, be thine.
And, answering, Jesus said to him—It is written: The Lord thy God, shalt thou worship, and, unto him alone, render divine service.
And he led him into Jerusalem, and set him upon the pinnacle of the temple,—and said [to him]—If thou art God’s, Son, cast thyself, from hence, down;
for it is written—Unto his messengers, will he give command concerning thee, to keep vigilant watch over thee,—
And, On hands, will they take thee up, lest once thou strike, against a stone, thy foot.
And Jesus, answering, said to him—It is said: Thou shalt not put to the test the Lord thy God.
And, having concluded every temptation, the adversary departed from him until a fitting season.
And Jesus returned, in the power of the Spirit, into Galilee; and, a report, went out along the whole of the region, concerning him;
and, he, began teaching in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
And he came into Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and entered, according to his custom, on the sabbath day, into the synagogue,—and stood up to read.
And there was handed to him a scroll of the prophet Isaiah; and unfolding the scroll, he found the place where it was written:
The Spirit of the Lord, is upon me, because he hath anointed me—to tell glad tidings unto the destitute; He hath sent me forth,—To proclaim, to captives, a release, and, to the blind, a recovering of sight,—to send away the crushed, with a release;
To proclaim the welcome year of the Lord.
And, folding up the scroll, he handed it to the attendant, and sat down; and, the eyes of all, in the synagogue, were intently fixed upon him;
and he began to be saying to them—This day, is fulfilled this scripture, in your ears.
And, all, were bearing witness to him, and marvelling at the words of favour which were proceeding out of his mouth; and they were saying—Is not, this, the, son of Joseph?
And he said unto them—By all means, ye will speak to me this similitude: Physician! heal, thyself,—Whatsoever things we have heard of coming to pass in Capernaum, do here also, in thine own country.
And he said—Verily, I say unto you, No prophet, is, welcome, in his own country,
And, of a truth, I say unto you—Many widows, were in the days of Elijah, in Israel, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when there came a great famine upon all the land;
And, unto none of them, was Elijah sent, save unto Sarepta of Sidonia, unto a woman that was a widow.
And, many lepers, were in Israel, in the time of Elisha the prophet, and, not one of them, was cleansed, save Naaman the Syrian.
And all were filled with wrath, in the synagogue, as they heard these things.
And, rising up, they thrust him forth outside the city, and led him as far as a brow of the hill on which their city was built,—so that they might throw him down headlong.
But, he, passing through the midst of them, went his way.
And he came down into Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the sabbath;
and they were being struck with astonishment at his teaching, because, with authority, was his word.
And, in the synagogue, was a man having a spirit of an impure demon; and he cried out with a loud voice—
Let be! What have we in common with thee, O Jesus, Nazarene! Hast thou come to destroy us? I know thee, who thou art,—The Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked it, saying—Hold thy peace! and go forth from him. And the demon, throwing him into the midst, went forth from him, doing him no hurt.
And amazement came upon all, and they began to converse one with another, saying—What is this word, that, with authority and power, he giveth orders unto the impure spirits, and they go forth?
And a noise concerning him began to go out into every place of the country around.
And, rising up, from the synagogue, he went into the house of Simon. Now, the mother-in-law of Simon, was in distress with a great fever; and they made request to him concerning her.
And, standing over her, he rebuked the fever, and it left her; and, instantly arising, she began to minister unto them.
But, as the sun was going in, they one and all, as many as had any sick with divers diseases, brought them unto him; and, he, upon each one of them laying, his hands, was curing them.
And demons also were going forth from many; crying aloud, and saying—Thou, art the Son of God. And, rebuking them, he suffered them not be talking; because they knew him to be, The Christ.
And, when it was day, going forth, he journeyed into a desert place; and, the multitudes, were seeking after him, and they came unto him, and would have detained him, that he might not depart from them.
But, he, said unto them—To the other cities also, I must needs tell the good-news of the kingdom of God, because, hereunto, was I sent forth.
And he was proclaiming in the cities of Judaea.