But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession,
and kept back part of the price, his wife also having knowledge of it; and brought a certain part, and laid it at the feet of the apostles.
But Peter said, Ananias, why did Satan fill thy heart that thou shouldst lie to the Holy Spirit, and keep back part of the price of the land?
While it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why didst thou conceive this thing in thy heart? Thou didst not lie to men, but to God.
And Ananias, hearing these words, fell down, and expired. And great fear came on all that heard of it.
And the young men arose, and wrapt him up, and carried him out, and buried him.
And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.
Peter said to her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much. And she said, Yes, for so much.
And Peter said to her, Why is it that ye agreed together to try the Spirit of the Lord? Lo! the feet of those who have buried thy husband are at the door, and they will carry thee out.
And she fell down immediately at his feet, and expired; and the young men, when they came in, found her dead, and carried her out, and buried her by her husband.
And great fear came upon all the church, and upon all that heard of these things.
And many signs and wonders were wrought among the people by the hands of the apostles; and they were all with one accord in Solomon’s porch.
But of the rest no one dared to join himself to them. But the people highly honored them;
and more and more were believers added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women;
so that in the streets they brought out the sick, and laid them on beds and couches, in order that at least the shadow of Peter, as he passed, might overshadow some of them.
The multitude also belonging to the cities around came together to Jerusalem bringing the sick, and those plagued by unclean spirits; and they were all healed.
But the high-priest and all that were with him, which is the sect of the Sadducees, rose up and were filled with indignation,
and laid hands on the apostles, and put them in the public prison.
But an angel of the Lord in the night opened the prison-doors, and brought them forth and said,
Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
And hearing this, they went into the temple at daybreak and taught. But the high-priest and they that were with him came and called together the council, and all the elders of the sons of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
But the officers that came did not find them in the prison; and they returned and brought word,
saying, The prison we found shut in all security and the keepers standing at the doors: but when we opened them, we found no one within.
And when the priest, and the captain of the temple, and the chief priests heard these words, they were at a loss concerning them, to what this would come.
But one came and brought them word, Lo! the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.
Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without violence, that they might not be stoned; for they feared the people.
And having brought them, they set them before the council. And the high-priest questioned them,
saying, We strictly commanded you not to teach in this name, and lo! ye have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and mean to bring this man’s blood upon us.
But Peter and the apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men.
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew by hanging him on a cross;
him hath God exalted by his right hand, as a Leader and Saviour, to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
And we are his witnesses of these things, and so also is the Holy Spirit which God hath given to those who obey him.
But when they heard this, they were filled with rage, and were resolving to kill them.
But there stood up one in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, in high esteem with all the people, and commanded to put the men forth a little while,
and said to them [of the council], Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves as to what ye are about to do in respect to these men.
For before these days arose Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain, and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered, and came to nought.
After this man arose Judas the Galilaean, in the days of the registering, and drew people away after him; he also perished, and all, as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
And now I say to you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone; for if this design or this work be of men, it will come to nought;
but if it be of God, ye will not be able to overthrow them; lest haply ye be found also fighting against God.
And they were persuaded by him; and having called the apostles, they beat them, and commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and released them.
They therefore went away from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame in behalf of that name;
and every day, in the temple, and in houses, they ceased not to teach, and to publish the glad tidings concerning Jesus the Christ.