After two days was the passover and the feast of unleavened bread; and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft, and kill him.
But they said: Not during the feast, lest there be a tumult of the people.
And while he was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he reclined at table, there came a woman that had an alabaster box of ointment of pure nard, very costly; and she broke the box, and poured it on his head.
And some of them were displeased within themselves, and said: For what purpose was this waste of the ointment?
For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given to the poor. And they murmured against her.
But Jesus said: Let her alone; why do you trouble her? She has performed a good work on me.
For you have the poor with you always; and whenever you choose, you can do them good; but me you have not always.
She has done what she could; she has come beforehand to anoint my body for its burial.
Verily I say to you, wherever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also which she has done shall be told, for a memorial of her.
And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests, that he might deliver him up to them.
And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought how he might conveniently deliver him up.
And on the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the passover, his disciples said to him: Where dost thou wish that we go and prepare that thou mayest eat the passover?
And he sent two of his disciples, and said to them: Go into the city, and there will meet you a man carrying a pitcher of water;
follow him, and wherever he enters, say to the master of the house: The Teacher says, Where is the room in which I may eat the passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and made ready; there make ready for us.
And his disciples went out, and came into the city, and found as he had said to them; and they prepared the passover.
And in the evening, he came with the twelve.
And while they were reclining at table, and were eating, Jesus said to them: Verily I say to you, One of you, he that eats with me, will deliver me up.
And they began to be sad, and to say to him, one by one, Is it I? and another said, Is it I?
He answered and said to them: It is one of the twelve, he that dips with me into the dish.
The Son of man goes, as it is written of him; but alas for that man by whom the Son of man is delivered up! It would have been good for that man if he had never been born.
And while they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them, and said: Take, eat; this is my body.
And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them; and they all drank of it.
And he said to them: This is my blood of the new covenant, which is poured out for many.
Verily I say to you, I shall drink no more of the fruit of the vine, till that day when I shall drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.
And Jesus said to them: All of you will find in me an occasion for offense this night; for it is written: I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered.
But after I have risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Peter said to him: Though all should find occasion for offense, yet I will not.
And Jesus said to him: Verily I say to you, this day, during this very night, before the cock crows twice, you will deny me three times.
But he said with the more vehemence: Though it should be necessary for me to die with thee, I would not deny thee. And so said they all.
And they came to a place called Gethsemane; and he said to his disciples: Sit here, while I pray.
And he took with him Peter and James and John, and began to be in dismay and anguish of soul.
And he said to them: My soul is encompassed with sorrow, even to death; remain here, and watch.
And he went forward a little, and fell upon the ground, and prayed, that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him;
and he said: Abba, Father, all things are possible to thee; let this cup pass from me: but not what I will, but what thou wiliest.
And he came and found them sleeping; and he said to Peter: Simon, do you sleep? Had you not strength to watch one hour?
Watch, and pray, all of you, lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
And again he went away, and prayed, saying the same thing.
And he returned, and found them sleeping again, for their eyes were heavy; and they knew not what to answer him.
And he came the third time, and said to them: Sleep the remaining time, and take your rest. It is enough; the hour has come; behold, the Son of man is delivered into the hands of sinners.
Arise, let us go; behold, he that delivers me up draws near.
And immediately, while he was yet speaking, came Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude, with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
And he that delivered him up had given them a sign, saying: The one that I shall kiss, is he; take him, and lead him away securely.
And when he came, he immediately went up to him and said: Rabbi, Rabbi, and kissed him.
And they laid their hands on him and took him.
And one of those who were standing by, drew a sword, and struck the servant of the chief priest, and cut off his ear.
And Jesus answering, said to them: Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs, to take me?
I was daily with you in the temple, and taught, and you did not take me; but this is so, that the scriptures may be fulfilled.
And they all forsook him and fled.
And there followed him a certain young man, who had a linen garment around his naked body. And the young men laid hold of him;
and he left the linen garment, and fled from them naked.
And they led Jesus away to the chief priest; and with him were assembled all the chief priests, and the elders, and the scribes.
And Peter followed him, at a distance, even into the palace of the chief priest, and sat with the attendants, and warmed himself at the fire.
And the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin sought for testimony against Jesus, in order to put him to death, and found none.
For many testified falsely against him, and their testimony did not agree.
And some rose up, and testified falsely against him, saying:
We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another made without hands.
And not even in this did their testimony agree.
And the chief priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying: Do you make no answer? What do these testify against you?
But he was silent, and made no answer.   Again, the chief priest asked him, and said to him: Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
Jesus replied: I am. And you shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of the Almighty, and coming with the clouds of heaven.
And the chief priest rent his clothes, and said: What further need have we of witnesses?
You have heard his impious speech. What think you? They all condemned him to be a subject of death.
And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to strike him with their fists, and to say to him: Give a response. And the attendants struck him with their open hands.
And while Peter was in the court below, one of the maidservants of the chief priest came;
and when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him, and said: You also were with Jesus the Nazarene.
But he denied, saying: I neither know, nor understand what you say. And he went out into the entrance, and the cock crew.
And the maid-servant saw him again, and began to say to those who stood by: This man is one of them.
He again denied. And again, after a little while, those who stood by said to Peter: Surely, you are one of them; for you are a Galilean, and your speech is like theirs.
But he began to curse and to swear, saying: I know not this man of whom you speak.
And immediately the cock crew the second time. And Peter remembered the word that Jesus had spoken to him: Before the cock crows twice, you will deny me three times. And when he thought upon it, he wept.