And he showed me a pure river of water of life, bright as crystal, coming forth out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.
In the midst of its street and of the river, from here and from there, was a tree of life producing twelve fruits: according to one month each yielding its fruit. And the leaves of the tree were for healing of the nations.
And every curse will no longer be. And the throne of God and the Lamb will be in it; and His slaves will serve Him.
And they will see His face; and His name will be on their foreheads.
And night will not be there; and they have no need of a lamp or a light of the sun, because the Lord God will shed light on them. And they shall reign forever and ever.
And he said to me, These words are faithful and true. And the Lord God of the holy prophets sent His angel to show His slaves what must happen quickly.
Behold, I am coming quickly. Blessed is the one keeping the words of the prophecy of this Book.
And I, John, was the one seeing and hearing these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel showing me these things.
And he said to me, Behold! Stop! For I am your fellow-slave, and of your brothers the prophets, and of the ones keeping the words of this Book. Do worship to God.
And he said to me, Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this Book, because the time is near.
The one acting unjustly, let him still act unjustly; and the filthy, let him still be filthy; and the righteous, let him still do righteousness; and the holy, let him still be holy.
And, behold, I am coming quickly, and My reward is with Me, to give to each as his work is.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the Ending, the First and the Last.
Blessed are the ones doing His commands, that their authority will be over the Tree of Life, and by the gates they may enter into the city.
But outside are the dogs and the sorcerers, and the fornicators, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and everyone loving a lie, and making it.
I, Jesus, sent My angel to testify these things to you over the churches. I am the Root and Offspring of David, the bright and morning Star.
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come! And the one hearing, let him say, Come! And the one thirsting, let him come; and the one desiring, let him take of the water of life freely.
For I testify together with everyone hearing the words of the prophecy of this Book: If anyone adds to these things, God will add upon him the plagues having been written in this Book.
And if anyone takes away from the words of the Book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the Book of Life, and out of the holy city, and of the things having been written in this Book.
The One testifying these things says, Yes, I am coming quickly. Amen. Yes, come, Lord Jesus!
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. Amen.