THEN after the tumult was quieted, Paul called to him the disciples, and taking his leave, departed to go into Macedonia.
And passing through those parts, and having exhorted them with much discourse, he went into Greece.
And after three months stay, as the Jews were lying in wait for him, when he was just embarking for Syria, he determined to return through Macedonia.
And there accompanied him as far as Asia, Sopater a Berean; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and Tychicus and Trophimus, Asiatics.
These going before tarried for us at Troas.
And we sailed from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and came to them to Troas after five days; where we stayed seven days.
And on the first day of the week, when the disciples were assembled to break bread, Paul preached unto them (ready to depart on the morrow), and extended his discourse until midnight.
Now there were many lamps in the upper room, where they were assembled.
And a certain youth named Eutytchus, who sat in the window, fell into a profound sleep: as Paul discoursed much longer than usual, quite overpowered with sleep, he fell down from a third story, and was taken up dead.
But Paul came down, and fell upon him, and taking him in his arms, said, Trouble not yourselves, for his life is yet in him.
And when he had gone up, and broken bread, and eaten, and conversed a long time, even to the break of day, he then departed.
And they brought the lad alive, and were comforted exceedingly.
Then we going before to the ship, sailed for Assos, intending there to take in Paul: for so he had ordered, meaning himself to walk thither.
And when he met us at Assos, we took him up, and came to Mytelene.
And sailing from thence, on the following day we advanced over against Chios; and the next day we touched at Samos, and staying at Trogyllium, the day following we came to Miletus.
For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, that he might not spend the time in Asia: for he hastened on, if it was possible for him, to be at Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
So he sent to Ephesus from Miletus, and called the presbyters of the church to attend him.
And when they were come unto him, he said unto them,   Ye know, from the very first day in which I entered into Asia, how I have been among you at every season,
serving the Lord with all humility, and with many tears and trials, which have befallen me through the lying in wait of the Jews:
and that I have suppressed nothing which could conduce to your profiting; not desisting from preaching to you, and teaching you in public, and from house to house,
repeatedly urging both on Jews and Greeks repentance towards God, and faith towards our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now behold I am going, bound by the Spirit, unto Jerusalem, not knowing what things shall there befal me:
only this, that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying, that bonds and tribulation await thee.
Yet I make no account of any suffering, nor regard my life as of any value to myself, farther than as I may finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord, to testify fully the Gospel of the grace of God.
And now behold, I know that ye shall see my face no more, even ye all, among whom I have gone in and out preaching the kingdom of God.
Wherefore I appeal to you this day as witnesses that I am pure from the blood of all men.
For I have concealed nothing, so as not repeatedly to declare to you the whole counsel of God.
Take heed therefore to yourselves, and to all the flock, over which the Holy Ghost hath made you bishops, to feed as shepherds the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood.
For this I know, that after my departure there will come among you grievous wolves, not sparing the flock:
Yea, from among yourselves shall men arise, speaking perverting doctrines, to draw away disciples after them.
Therefore watch, remembering that for three years, by night and by day, I have never ceased with tears to admonish every individual.
And now, brethren, I commit you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to finish the superstructure, and to give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
The silver, or gold, or apparel of no man have I coveted:
but ye yourselves know that these hands have by labour furnished necessaries for my own wants, and for those who were with me.
In all things I have set you the example, that so labouring hard ye ought to help the infirm, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, because he himself said, “It is more blessed to give than to receive.”
And when he had spoken these things, he fell on his knees, and prayed with them all.
And all of them shed floods of tears, and fell upon Paul’s neck, and kissed him again and again,
most peculiarly afflicted at that word which he had spoken, that they should see his face no more: and they accompanied him unto the ship.