Stand fast therefore in the liberty with which Christ has made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.
Behold, I Paul say to you, that if you be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
Christ is become of no effect to you, whoever of you are justified by the law; you are fallen from grace.
For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.
For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision avails any thing, nor uncircumcision; but faith which works by love.
You did run well; who did hinder you that you should not obey the truth?
This persuasion comes not of him that calls you.
A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
I have confidence in you through the Lord, that you will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubles you shall bear his judgment, whoever he be.
And I, brothers, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? then is the offense of the cross ceased.
I would they were even cut off which trouble you.
For, brothers, you have been called to liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another.
For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
But if you bite and devour one another, take heed that you be not consumed one of another.
This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh.
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that you cannot do the things that you would.
But if you be led of the Spirit, you are not under the law.
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, jealousies, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies,
Contentions, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,
Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.
And they that are Christ’s have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts.
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another.