Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, having taken along Titus also.
And I went up according to revelation, and I declared to them the good news that I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were of repute, lest somehow I might be running or ran in vain.
But not even Titus with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised.
But that issue was because of those false brothers smuggled in, who sneaked in to spy out our liberty that we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might enslave us,
to whom we yielded in subjection not even for an hour, so that the truth of the good news might continue with you.
But from those who were reputed to be something (what kind they were formerly, it makes no difference to me, God does not accept a personage of man), for those who were of repute added nothing to me,
but to the contrary, when they saw that I was entrusted with the good news for men of uncircumcision, as Peter for men of circumcision
(for he who was working in Peter for the apostleship for men of circumcision was also working in me for the Gentiles),
and James and Cephas and John, those who were reputed to be pillars, when they understood the grace that was given to me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship. So that we were for the Gentiles, and they for men of circumcision,
only that we should remember the poor, which this same thing I also was eager to do.
But when Peter came to Antioch I opposed him to the face, because he was blameworthy.
For before certain men came from James he ate together with the Gentiles, but when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing men of circumcision.
And the other Jews also joined in hypocrisy with him, so that even Barnabas went along with their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they did not walk uprightly toward the truth of the good news, I said to Peter before all, If thou being a Jew, live as a Gentile and not as a Jew, why do thou compel the Gentiles to live as Jews?
We are Jews by nature and not sinful men of the Gentiles,
knowing that a man is not made righteous from works of law, instead through faith of Jesus Christ. And we believed in Christ Jesus, so that we might be made righteous from faith of Christ, and not from works of law, because no flesh will be made righteous from works of law.
But if, while seeking to be made righteous in Christ, we ourselves were also found sinful, then is Christ an aide of sin? May it not happen!
For if I build again these things that I tore down, I demonstrate myself a transgressor.
For I, through law, died to law, so that I might live to God.
I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. And what I now live in flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me.
I do not disregard the grace of God, for if righteousness is through law, then Christ died in vain.