And the LORD said unto Noah, Enter thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.
Of every clean animal thou shalt take to thee seven pairs, the male and his female; but of animals that [are] not clean, two, the male and his female.
Of fowls also of the heavens by seven pairs, the male and the female; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
For yet [in] seven days, I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and every substance that I have made I will destroy from off the face of the earth.
And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.
And Noah [was] six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.
And Noah went in and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him into the ark because of the waters of the flood.
Of clean animals and of animals that [are] not clean and of fowls and of every thing that moves upon the earth,
there went in two by two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah.
And it came to pass after seven days that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of the heavens were opened.
And there was rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
In that same day Noah and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them entered into the ark,
they and every animal after its kind and all the beasts after their kind and every creeping thing that moves upon the earth after its kind and every fowl after its kind, every bird, every thing with wings.
And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two by two of all flesh in which [is] the spirit of life.
And those that went in went in male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded him, and the LORD shut him in.
And the flood was forty days upon the earth, and the waters multiplied and bore up the ark, and it was lifted up above the earth.
And the waters prevailed and multiplied greatly upon the earth, and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth, and all the high mountains that [were] under all the heavens were covered.
Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail, and the mountains were covered.
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl and of beasts and of animals and of every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth and every man;
all in whose nostrils [was] the breath of the spirit of life of all that [was] in the dry [land] died.
And every substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground, both man and cattle and the animals and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth, and only Noah remained [alive] and those that [were] with him in the ark.
And the waters prevailed upon the earth one hundred and fifty days.: