And the daughters of Zelophehad the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the family of Manasseh, the son of Joseph came. And these are his daughters names: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
And they stood before Moses and Eleazar the priest, and before the rulers and all the congregation at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not among the company who met together against Jehovah in the company of Korah, but he died for his own sins, and had no son.
Why is our father's name taken away from the midst of his family because there is no son to him? Give us an inheritance among our father's brothers.
And Moses brought their cause before Jehovah.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
The daughters of Zelophehad speak rightly. You shall surely give them a possession, an inheritance among their father's brothers. And you shall cause their father's inheritance to pass to them.
And you shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, When a man dies, and has no son, then you shall pass on his inheritance to his daughter.
And if he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers.
And if he has no brothers, then you shall give his possession to his father's brothers.
And if his father has no brothers then you shall give his inheritance to his nearest relative, of his family. And he shall own it, and it shall be a statute of judgment to the sons of Israel, as Jehovah has commanded Moses.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Get up into this mountain of Abarim, and see the land which I have given to the sons of Israel.
And when you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people as your brother Aaron was gathered.
For you rebelled against My mouth in the desert of Zin, in the strife of the congregation, to sanctify Me at the waters before their eyes. they were the Waters of Strife in Kadesh, in the desert of Zin.
And Moses spoke to Jehovah, saying,
Let Jehovah, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation
who may go out before them, and who may go in before them, and who may lead them out, and who may bring them in, so that the congregation of Jehovah may not be as sheep to whom there is no shepherd.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him.
And cause him to stand before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation, and give him a charge in their sight.
And you shall put your honor on him, so that all the congregation of the sons of Israel will listen.
And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall ask for him according to the judgment of the Urim before Jehovah. At his mouth they shall go out, and at his mouth they shall come in, he and all the sons of Israel with him, even all the congregation.
And Moses did as Jehovah commanded him. And he took Joshua and made him stand before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation.
And he laid his hands on him, and gave him a charge, even as Jehovah commanded by the hand of Moses.