Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against him,
and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord GOD: Behold, O mount Seir, I [am] against thee, and I will stretch out my hand against thee, and I will make thee waste and solitary.
I will lay thy cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou shalt know that I [am] the LORD.
Because thou hast had perpetual enmities and hast scattered the sons of Israel to the force of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the extremely evil time:
therefore, [as] I live, said the Lord GOD, I will prepare thee unto blood, and blood shall pursue thee: and if thou dost not hate blood, blood shall pursue thee.
And I will make mount Seir waste and solitary and cut off from him, he that passes out and him that returns.
And I will fill his mountains with his dead; and in thy hills and in thy valleys, and in all thy rivers, they shall fall that are slain with the sword.
I will make thee perpetual desolations, and thy cities shall never be restored; and ye shall know that I [am] the LORD.
Because thou hast said, These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess them, whereas the LORD was there.
Therefore, [as] I live, said the Lord GOD, I will even do according to thine anger and according to thine envy which thou hast used out of thy enmity against them; and I shall be known in them when I judge thee.
And thou shalt know that I, the LORD, have heard all thy injuries which thou hast spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate; they are given us to devour.
Thus with your mouth ye have boasted against me and have multiplied your words against me; I have heard [them].
Thus hath the Lord GOD said: Thus shall the whole earth rejoice [when] I shall make thee desolate.
As thou didst rejoice upon the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so will I do unto thee; thou shalt be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Idumea, [even] all of it: and they shall know that I [am] the LORD.: