Now it came to pass in those days, a decree went out from Caesar Augustus to enroll all the world.
This enrollment first occurred when Quirinius was governor of Syria.
And all went to be enrolled, each into his personal city.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and patriarchy of David,
to enroll himself with Mary, the woman who was betrothed to him, being pregnant.
And it came to pass while they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to bring forth.
And she brought forth her son, the firstborn, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in the feed trough, because there was no place for them in the inn.
And there were shepherds in the same region living in the fields, and keeping watch by night over their flock.
And behold, an agent of the Lord stood near them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they feared a great fear.
And the agent said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be to all the people,
because to you was born today in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ Lord.
And this is the sign to you: Ye will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, and lying in a feed trough.
And suddenly there came to be with the agent a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying,
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill among men.
And it came to pass, as the agents went away from them into heaven, that the men (the shepherds) said to each other, Let us indeed go through as far as Bethlehem, and see this declaration that has come to pass, which the Lord made known to us.
And having hastened, they came and found both Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in the feed trough.
And when they saw it, they informed about the declaration that was told them about this child.
And all who heard it wondered about the things that were spoken to them by the shepherds.
But Mary kept all these proclamations, pondering in her heart.
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all that they heard and saw, as it was told to them.
And when eight days were fulfilled to circumcise him, that his name was called JESUS, the one called by the agent before he was conceived in the belly.
And when the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought him up to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord,
(just as it is written in a law of the Lord that every male that opens a womb will be called holy to the Lord),
and to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in a law of the Lord, a pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.
And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the encouragement of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
And it was divinely revealed to him by the Holy Spirit, that he would not see death before he would see the Christ of the Lord.
And he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus, for them to do according to the custom of the law about him,
he also received it into his arms, and praised God, and said,
Now dismiss thy bondman in peace, Master, according to thy word,
because my eyes have seen thy salvation,
which thou prepared toward the face of all the peoples:
a light for enlightenment of Gentiles, and glory of thy people Israel.
And Joseph and his mother were marveling at the things being spoken about him.
And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this man is set for the falling and the rising of many in Israel, and for a sign being repudiated
(and also of thee, a sword will pierce through thine own soul), so that thoughts out of many hearts may be revealed.
And there was Anna, a prophetess, a daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher (being advanced in many days, having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity,
and this woman was a widow to eighty-four years), who did not depart from the temple, serving with fastings and supplications night and day.
And having stood near at that same hour, she acknowledged the Lord, and spoke about him to all those who were awaiting redemption in Jerusalem.
And when they completed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee to their own city Nazareth.
And the child grew, and became strong in spirit, filled with wisdom. And the grace of God was upon it.
And his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover.
And when he became twelve years old, them having gone up according to the custom of the feast,
and having fulfilled the days, during their return the boy Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem. And Joseph and his mother did not know it,
but, having supposed him to be in the caravan, they went a day's journey. And they sought him among their kinfolk and acquaintances.
And not having found him, they turned back to Jerusalem, seeking him.
And it came to pass after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them, and questioning them.
And all who heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers.
And when they saw him they were amazed. And his mother said to him, Child, why did thou this way to us? Behold, thy father and I were seeking thee sorrowing.
And he said to them, Why is it that ye were seeking me? Had ye not known that I must be among the things of my Father?
And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them.
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was being subordinate to them. And his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature, and in favor with God and men.