And David assembled all the chiefs of Israel; the chiefs of the tribes and chiefs of the divisions who were serving the king, and commanders of the thousands, and commanders of the hundreds, and heads of all property and possessions of the king, and of his sons, with the eunuchs and the mighty ones, even to every mighty one of valor, to Jerusalem.
And David the king rose up on his feet and said, Hear me, my brothers and my people. With my heart I desired to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and for the footstool of our God. And I made preparations to build.
But God said to me, You shall not build a house to My name, for you are a man of battles, and you have shed blood.
But Jehovah the God of Israel chose me out of all my father's house to be king over Israel forever. For He chose Judah as the ruler, and my father's house in the house of Judah; and among the sons of my father He was pleased to make me king over all Israel.
And of all my sons, for Jehovah has given me many sons, He has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of Jehovah, over Israel.
And He said to me, Your son Solomon shall build My house and My courts, for I have chosen him as a son to Me, and I surely will be a Father to him.
And I will establish his kingdom forever, if he will be strong to do My commandments and My ordinances, as at this day.
And now in the sight of all Israel, the congregation of Jehovah, and in the hearing of our God, observe and seek out all the commandments of Jehovah your God that you may possess this good land, and cause your sons to inherit after you forever.
And you, my son Solomon, know the God of your father, and serve Him with a perfect heart, and with a willing mind. For Jehovah searches out all hearts, and He understands every imagination of thoughts. If you shall seek Him, He shall be found by you. But if you forsake Him, He will reject you forever.
Watch, now, for Jehovah has chosen you to build a house for a sanctuary. Be strong and act.
And David gave his son Solomon the pattern of the porch, and of its houses, and of its treasuries, and of its upper rooms, and of its innermost rooms, and of the house of the mercy-seat;
and the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit, for the courts of the house of Jehovah, and for all the rooms all around, for the treasuries of the house of God, and for the treasuries of the things dedicated;
and for the divisions of the priests and of the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of Jehovah; and for all the vessels of service of the house of Jehovah;
even gold by weight for things of gold, for all the vessels silver by weight, silver for all vessels of service and service; for all the service and service;
and by weight, for the lampstands of gold, and their lamps of gold, with the weight of each lampstand and its lamps. Also for the lampstands of silver by weight, with the weight of each lampstand, and its lamps, according to the service of each lampstand.
And he gave by weight gold for the tables of the Bread of Arrangement, for table and table; silver for the tables of silver;
and pure gold for the fleshhooks, and the bowls, and the cups; and for the golden basins by weight for every basin; for the silver basins by weight for basin and basin;
and for the altar of incense, refined gold by weight, and for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubs of gold, spreading out and covering over the ark of the covenant of Jehovah.
All was in writing from the hand of Jehovah. He caused me to understand all the work of the pattern.
And David said to his son Solomon, Be strong and brave, and act. Do not fear, nor be afraid, for Jehovah God, my God, shall be with you. He will not fail you nor forsake you until you have finished all the work of the service of the house of Jehovah.
And behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites shall be for all the service of the house of God. And with you in all work shall be every willing one with wisdom, for every service. And the rulers and all the people  shall be according to all your words.