Thus shall Bezaleel and Oholiab work, and every man that is wise-hearted, in whom Yahweh hath put wisdom and understanding, to know how to work any manner of workmanship for the holy service,—according to all that Yahweh hath commanded.
So then Moses called upon Bezaleel, and upon Oholiab, and upon every man that was wise-hearted, in whose heart Yahweh had put wisdom,—every one whose heart lifted him up, to draw near unto the work, to do it.
And they took, from the presence of Moses, all the heave-offering which the sons of Israel had brought in for the work of the holy service to do it,—howbeit, they, brought in unto him yet more free-will offerings, morning by morning.
Then came in all the wise men who were doing all the holy work,—man by man from his work which, they, were doing;
and spake unto Moses, saying, More than enough, are the people bringing in,—[more] than is needed for the service pertaining to the work; which Yahweh hath commanded to be done.
So Moses gave commandment and they passed a proclamation throughout the camp, saying, Let, neither man nor woman, make any more material for the holy heave-offering. So the people were restrained from bringing in.
For the material was enough for all the work, to make it,—and to spare.
Then did all the wise-hearted among the workers of the material make the habitation of ten curtains, of fine-twined linen, and blue and purple and crimson, with cherubim the work of the skilful weaver, did he make them.
The length of each curtain, was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth four cubits, for each curtain,—one measure, had all the curtains.
And he joined the [first] five curtains, one to another,—and the [other] five curtains, joined he one to another,
And he made loops of blue upon the border of the first curtain, at the edge of the set,—thus, made he in the border of the other curtain at the edge of the second set:
Fifty loops, made he in the first curtain, and fifty loops, made he in the edge of the curtain that was in the second set,—the loops being, opposite, one to another.
And he made fifty clasps of gold,—and joined the curtains one to another with the clasps, and so the habitation became, one.
And he made curtains of goat’s-hair, for the tent over the habitation, eleven curtains, did he make them:
the length of each curtain, was thirty cubits, and, four cubits, was the breath of each curtain,—one measure, had the eleven curtains.
And he joined five of the curtains by themselves,—and the six curtains, by themselves.
And he made fifty loops upon the border of the curtain that was outmost in the one set and fifty loops, made he upon the border of the curtain of the second set.
And he made fifty clasps of bronze,—to join together the tent, that it might become one.
And he made a covering to the tent, of rams’ skins dyed red,—and a covering of badgers’ skins, above.
And he made the boards for the habitation, of acacia wood, for standing up:
ten cubits, the length of each board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each board:
two tenons to each board, united one to another,—thus, made he for all the boards of the habitation.
And he made the boards for the habitation, twenty boards, for the south side southwards;
and, forty sockets of silver, made he, under the twenty boards, two sockets, under the first board, for its two tenons, and, two sockets, under the next board for its two tenons.
And for the second side of the habitation to the north quarter, made he twenty boards;
and their forty sockets of silver, two sockets, under the first board, and, two sockets, under the next board.
And, for the hinder part of the habitation westward, made he six boards;
and two boards, made he for the corners of the habitation,—in the hinderpart.
Thus were they to be double beneath, and at the same time, should they be entire, at the top thereof, into each ring, thus, did he for them both, for the two corners.
Thus were there to be eight boards, and, their sockets of silver, were sixteen sockets, two sockets apiece under each board.
And he made bars of acacia wood,—five, for the boards of the first side of the habitation,
and five bars, for the boards of the other side of the habitation, and, five bars, for the boards of the habitation at the hinderpart westward.
And he made the middle bar,—to run along in the midst of the boards, from end to end.
And the boards, overlaid he with gold and their rings, made he of gold, as receptacles for the bars, and he overlaid the bars with gold.
And he made the veil, of blue and purple and crimson and fine-twined linen,—of the work of a skilful weaver, made he it, with cherubim.
And he made for it four pillars of acacia, and overlaid them with gold their hooks of gold, and cast for them, four sockets of silver.
And he made a screen for the opening of the tent, of blue and purple and crimson and fine twined linen, the work of an embroiderer;
and the five pillars thereof and their hooks, and he overlaid their capitals and their cross-rods, with gold, but, their five sockets, were of bronze.