Give thanks to the Lord for his goodness, his kindness endures forever.
Let the house of Israel now say: his kindness endures forever.
Let the house of Aaron now say: his kindness endures forever.
Let those who fear the Lord now say: his kindness endures forever.
Out of straits I called on the Lord, the Lord answered and gave me room.
The Lord is mine; I am fearless. What can people do to me?
The Lord is mine, as my help: I shall feast my eyes on my foes.
It is better to hide in the Lord than to trust in mortals.
It is better to hide in the Lord than to put any trust in princes.
Everywhere heathen swarmed round me; in the name of the Lord I cut them down.
They swarmed, swarmed around me; in the name of the Lord I cut them down,
they swarmed around me like bees, they blazed like a fire of thorns: in the name of the Lord I cut them down.
Sore they pushed me, to make me fall; but the Lord gave me his help.
The Lord is my strength and my song, and he is become my salvation.
Hark! In the tents of the righteous glad cries of victory are ringing. The hand of the Lord has wrought bravely,
the hand of the Lord is exalted, the hand of the Lord has wrought bravely.
I shall not die: nay, I shall live, to declare the works of the Lord.
Though the Lord has chastened me sore, he has not given me over to death.    (The Procession arrives at the Temple)
“Open to me the gates of victory. I would enter therein and give thanks to the Lord.”    (The Welcome)
“This is the gate of the Lord: the righteous may enter therein;”
I thank you because you have heard me, and are become my salvation.
The stone which the builders despised is become the head-stone of the corner.
This has been wrought by the Lord; it is marvellous in our eyes.
This day is the Lord’s own creation: in it let us joy and be glad.
O Lord, save us, we pray, O Lord, prosper, we pray.
Blessed is the one who enters in the name of the Lord. From the house of the Lord we bless you.
The Lord is God, he has given us light. Wreathe the dance with boughs, till they touch the horns of the altar.
You are my God, I will thank you; O my God, I will exalt you.
Give thanks to the Lord for his goodness: his kindness endures forever.