When Abram was nynetye yere olde and ix. the LORde apeared to hym sayenge: I am the almyghtie God: walke before me ad be vncorrupte.
And I wyll make my bonde betwene the and me and wyll multiplye the excedyngly.
And Abra fell on his face. And God talked moreover with hym saynge:
I am beholde my testamet is with the that thou shalt be a father of many natios.
Therfore shalt thou no more be called Abram but thy name shalbe Abraham: for a father of many nations haue I made the
and I will multiplye the excedyngly and wyll make nations of the: yee and kynges shall sprynge out of the.
Moreover I will make my bonde betwene me and the and thy seed after the in their tymes to be an everlastynge testament So that I wyll be God vnto the and to thy seed after the.
And I will geue vnto the ad to thy seed after the the lande where in thou arte a straunger: Euen all the lande of Canaan for an everlastynge possession and wil be their God.
And God sayde vnto Abraha: Se thou kepe my testamente both thou and thy seed after the in their tymes:
This is my testamente which ye shall kepe betwene me and you and thy seed after the that ye circucyse all youre men childern ye shall circumcyse
the foreskynne of youre flesh ad it shal be a token of the bond betwixte me and you.
And euery manchilde when it is viij. dayes olde shal be circucysed amonge you in youre generations and all servauntes also borne at home or boughte with money though they be straungers and not of thy seed.
The seruaunte borne in thy housse ad he also that is bought with money must needes be circumcysed that my testament may be in youre flesh for an everlastinge bonde.
Yf there be any vncircuncysed manchilde that hath not the forskynne of his flesh cutt of his soule shall perish from his people: because he hath broke my testamet
And God sayde vnto Abraham. Sarai thy wyfe shall nomore be called Sarai: but Sara shall hir name be.
For I will blesse her and geue the a sonne of her and will blesse her: so that people ye and kynges of people shall springe of her.
And Abraham fell vpon his face ad laughte and sayd in his harte: shall a childe be borne vnto hym that is an hundred yere olde ad shall Sara that is nynetie yere olde bere?
And Abraha sayde vnto God. O that Ismaell myghte lyve in thy syghte.
The sayde God: na Sara thy wife shall bere the a sonne ad thou shalt call his name Isaac. And I will make my bonde with him that it shall be an everlastynge bonde vnto his seed after him.
And as concernynge Ismaell also I haue herde thy request: loo I will blesse him and encrease him and multiplye him excedyingly. Twelve prynces shall be begete and I will make a great nation of him.
But my bonde will I make with Isaac which Sara shall bere vnto the: even this tyme twelue moneth.
And God left of talkynge with him and departed vp from Abraham.
And Abraham toke Ismaell his sonne and all the servauntes borne in his housse and all that was bought with money as many as were menchildren amonge the me of Abrahas housse and circumcysed the foreskynne of their flesh even the selfe same daye as God had sayde vnto him.
Abraham was nynetie yere olde and .ix. when he cutt of the foreskynne of his flesh.
And Ismaell his sonne was .xiij. yere olde when the foreskynne of hys flesh was circumcysed.
The selfe same daye was Abraha circucised and Ismael his sonne.
And all the men in his housse whether they were borne in his housse or bought wyth money (though they were straungers) were circumcysed with him.