Give ear, ye heavens, and I will speak, and let the earth hear the words of my mouth.
My doctrine shall drop as the rain. My speech shall distil as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender grass, and as the showers upon the herb.
For I will proclaim the name of Jehovah. Ascribe ye greatness to our God.
The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice, a God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and right is he.
They have dealt corruptly with him. They are not his sons, it is their blemish, a perverse and crooked generation.
Do ye thus requite Jehovah, O foolish people and unwise? Is not he thy father who has bought thee? He has made thee, and established thee.
Remember the days of old. Consider the years of many generations. Ask thy father, and he will show thee, thine elders, and they will tell thee.
When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of men, he set the bounds of the peoples according to the number of the sons of Israel.
For Jehovah's portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance.
He found him in a desert land, and in the waste howling wilderness. He compassed him about. He cared for him. He kept him as the apple of his eye.
As an eagle that stirs up her nest, that flutters over her young, he spread abroad his wings. He took them. He bore them on his pinions.
Jehovah alone led him, and there was no foreign god with him.
He made him ride on the high places of the earth, and he ate the increase of the field, and he made him to suck honey out of the rock, and oil out of the flinty rock,
butter of the herd, and milk of the flock, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, with the finest of the wheat, and of the blood of the grape thou drank wine.
But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked. Thou have grown fat. Thou have grown thick. Thou have become sleek. Then he forsook God who made him, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his salvation.
They moved him to jealousy with strange gods. With abominations they provoked him to anger.
They sacrificed to demons, not God, to gods that they knew not, to new gods that came up of late, which your fathers did not dread.
Thou are unmindful of the Rock that begot thee, and have forgotten God who gave thee birth.
And Jehovah saw, and abhorred, because of the provocation of his sons and his daughters.
And he said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what their end shall be. For they are a very perverse generation, sons in whom is no faithfulness.
They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God. They have provoked me to anger with their vanities, and I will move them to jealousy with a non-nation. I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation.
For a fire is kindled in my anger, and burns to the lowest Sheol, and devours the earth with its increase, and sets on fire the foundations of the mountains.
I will heap evils upon them. I will spend my arrows upon them,
to be wasted with hunger, and devoured with burning heat and bitter destruction. And I will send upon them the teeth of beasts, with the poison of crawling things of the dust.
Outside the sword shall bereave, and in the chambers terror, to both young man and virgin, the suckling with the man of gray hairs.
I said, I would scatter them afar, I would make the remembrance of them to cease from among men,
were it not that I feared the provocation of the enemy, lest their adversaries should judge amiss, lest they should say, Our hand is exalted, and Jehovah has not done all this.
For they are a nation void of counsel, and there is no understanding in them.
Oh that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!
How should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight unless their Rock had sold them, and Jehovah had delivered them up?
For their rock is not as our Rock, even our enemies themselves being judges.
For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and of the fields of Gomorrah. Their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are bitter.
Their wine is the poison of serpents, and the cruel venom of asps.
Is not this laid up in store with me, sealed up among my treasures?
Vengeance is for me, and recompense at the time when their foot shall slide. For the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things that are to come upon them shall make haste.
For Jehovah will judge his people, and regrets for his servants, when he sees that their power is gone, and there is none remaining, shut up or left at large.
And he will say, Where are their gods, the rock in which they took refuge,
which ate the fat of their sacrifices, and drank the wine of their drink offering? Let them rise up and help you, let them be your protection.
See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god with me. I kill, and I make alive. I wound, and I heal. And there is none that can deliver out of my hand.
For I lift up my hand to heaven, and say, As I live forever,
if I whet my glittering sword, and my hand takes hold on judgment, I will render vengeance to my adversaries, and will recompense those who hate me.
I will make my arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall devour flesh, with the blood of the slain and the captives, from the head of the leaders of the enemy.
Rejoice, O ye Gentiles, with his people. For he will avenge the blood of his servants, and will render vengeance to his adversaries, and will recompense those who hate him, and will make expiation for his land, for his people.
And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Joshua the son of Nun.
And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel.
And he said to them, Set your heart to all the words which I testify to you this day, which ye shall command your sons to observe to do, even all the words of this law.
For it is no vain thing for you, because it is your life, and through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land where ye go over the Jordan to possess it.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses that selfsame day, saying,
Get thee up onto this mountain of Abarim, to mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is opposite Jericho, and behold the land of Canaan, which I give to the sons of Israel for a possession.
And die on the mount where thou go up, and be gathered to thy people, as Aaron thy brother died in mount Hor, and was gathered to his people,
because ye trespassed against me in the midst of the sons of Israel at the waters of Meribah of Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin, because ye did not sanctify me in the midst of the sons of Israel.
For thou shall see the land before thee, but thou shall not go there into the land which I give the sons of Israel.