Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every pollution of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Regard us cordially; we have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have made gain by no one.
I do not say this to condemn you; for I have said before, that you are in our hearts, so that we could die with you, and live with you.
Great is my plainness of speech to you, great is my boasting of you; I am filled with comfort, I am exceedingly joyful in all our affliction.
For when we came into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest; but we were oppressed on every side: without were battles, within were fears.
But God, who comforts those who are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
and not only by his coming, but also by the consolation with which he was comforted in you when he told us of your strong affection, your grief, your zeal for me; so that I rejoiced the more.
For although I caused you sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it. For I see that the same letter gave you sorrow, though but for a short time.
Now I rejoice not that you were made sorry, but that you sorrowed in order to repentance. For you sorrowed in a way acceptable to God, that you might in nothing receive injury from us.
For godly sorrow works repentance not to be regretted, which leads to salvation: but the sorrow of the world works death.
For behold this very thing, that you sorrowed in a godly manner; what earnestness it produced in you; what defense of yourselves; what indignation; what fear; what strong affection; what zeal; what assertion of right. In all respects you have shown yourselves to be blameless in this matter.
Therefore, though I wrote to you, it was not on account of him who did the wrong, nor on account of him who received the wrong; but that our diligent care for you, in the sight of God, might be made manifest to you.
For this reason, we have been comforted by means of your comfort: and we rejoiced exceedingly more indeed, on account of the joy of Titus, for his spirit was refreshed by you all.
For if I boasted of you to him, in any respect, I am not made ashamed; but as I have spoken all things to you in truth, so also has our boasting to Titus been found to be truth:
and his affection for you is the more abundant, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling.
I rejoice that I have confidence in you in all things.