In that day Tobit remembered concerning the money which he had left in trust with Gabael in Rages of Media,
and he said in himself, I have asked for death; why do I not call my son Tobias, that I may show to him of the money  before I die?
And he called him, and said,
My child,  when I die, bury me: and despise not your mother; honor her all the days of your life, and do that which is pleasing to her, and grieve her not.
Remember, my child, that she has seen many dangers for you, when you were  in her womb. When she is dead, bury her by me in one grave.
My child, be mindful of the Lord our God all your days, and let not your will be set to sin and to transgress his commandments: do righteousness all the days of your life, and follow not the ways of unrighteousness.
For if you do the truth, your doings shall prosperously succeed to you, and to all them that do righteousness.
Give alms of your substance; and when you give alms, let not your eye be envious: turn not away your face from any poor man, and the face of God shall not be turned away from you.
As your substance is, give alms of it according to your abundance: if you have little, be not afraid to give alms according to that little:
for you lay up a good treasure for yourself against the day of necessity:
because alms delivers from death, and suffers not to come into darkness.
Alms is a good gift in the sight of the Most High for all that give it.
Beware, my child, of all whoredom, and take first a wife of the seed of your fathers, and take not a strange wife, which is not of your father’s tribe: for we are the sons of the prophets. Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, our fathers of old time, remember, my child, that they all took wives of their brethren, and were blessed in their children, and their seed shall inherit the land.
And now, my child, love your brethren, and scorn not in your heart your brethren, and the sons and the daughters of your people, to take a wife of them: for in scornfulness is destruction and much trouble, and in naughtiness is decay and great lack: for naughtiness is the mother of famine.
Let not the wages of any man, which shall work for you, wait with you, but render it to him out of hand: and if you serve God, recompense shall be made to you. Take heed to yourself, my child, in all your works, and be discreet in all your behavior.
And what you yourself hate, do to no man. Drink not wine to drunkenness, and let not drunkenness go with you on your way.
Give of your bread to the hungry, and of your garments to them that are naked: of all your abundance give alms; and let not your eye be envious when you give alms.
Pour out your bread on the  burial of the just, and give nothing to sinners.
Ask counsel of every man that is wise, and despise not any counsel that is profitable.
And bless the Lord your God at all times, and ask of him that your ways may be made straight, and that all your paths and counsels may prosper: for every nation has not counsel; but the Lord himself gives all good things, and he humbles whom he will, as he will. And now, my child, remember my commandments, and let them not be blotted out of your mind.
And now I show you of the ten talents of silver, which I left in trust with Gabael the son of Gabrias at Rages of Media.
And fear not, my child, because we are made poor: you have much wealth, if you fear God, and depart from all sin, and do that which is pleasing in his sight.
