And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, so that having come, they might anoint him.
And very much early morning on the first day of the week, they come near to the sepulcher when the sun was risen.
And they said to themselves, Who will roll away the stone for us from the door of the sepulcher?
And having looked, they see that the stone has been rolled back, for it was very large.
And having entered into the sepulcher, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a white robe, and they were alarmed.
And he says to them, Be not alarmed. Ye seek Jesus, the man of Nazareth who was crucified. He was raised. He is not here. Behold, the place where they laid him.
But go, tell his disciples and Peter, that he goes before you into Galilee. Ye will see him there, just as he said to you.
And having come out, they fled from the sepulcher, and trembling and astonishment seized them. And they said nothing to any man, for they were afraid.
Now having risen early morning on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
That woman, having gone, informed those who became with him, as they mourned and wept.
And those men, when they heard that he is alive, and was seen by her, did not believe.
And after these things he appeared in a different form to two of them as they walked going into the countryside.
And those men having departed, they reported to the others. Neither did they believe those men.
Afterward he became visible to them, to the eleven, who were relaxing. And he upbraided their unbelief and hard heart, because they did not believe those who saw him after he was raised.
And he said to them, Having gone into all the world, preach ye the good news to the whole creation.
He who believes and is immersed will be saved, but he who does not believe will be damned.
And these signs will accompany those who believe: In my name they will cast out demons. They will speak in new tongues.
They will take up serpents, and if they drink anything deadly, it will, no, not harm them. They will lay hands on the feeble, and they will fare well.
Therefore indeed, the Lord, after he spoke to them, was taken up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God.
And those men, having gone forth, they preached everywhere, the Lord working jointly, and confirming the word by the signs that followed. Truly.