The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel;
To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;
To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity;
To give subtlety to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.
A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:
To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction.
My son, hear the instruction of your father, and forsake not the law of your mother:
For they shall be an ornament of grace unto your head, and chains about your neck.
My son, if sinners entice you, consent you not.
If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privately for the innocent without cause:
Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit:
We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil:
Cast in your lot among us; let us all have one purse:
My son, walk not you in the way with them; refrain your foot from their path:
For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood.
Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.
And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privately for their own lives.
So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which takes away the life of the owners thereof.
Wisdom cries without; she utters her voice in the streets:
She cries in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she utters her words, saying,
How long, all of you simple ones, will all of you love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?
Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you.
Because I have called, and all of you refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded;
But all of you have set at nothing all my counsel, and refused my reproof:
I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear comes;
When your fear comes as desolation, and your destruction comes as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish comes upon you.
Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me:
For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD:
They refused my counsel: they despised all my reproof.
Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices.
For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them.
But whoso hearkens unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.