And a man went from the house of Levi and took a daughter of Levi as his wife.
And the woman conceived and bore a son. And when she saw him, that he was beautiful, she hid him three months.
But when she could no longer hide him, she took an ark of papyrus for him, and daubed it with bitumen and with pitch, and put the child in it. And she laid it in the reeds by the river's edge.
And his sister stood afar off, to know what would be done to him.
And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river. And her maidens walked along by the riverside. And when she saw the ark among the reeds, she sent her slave-girl to bring it.
And she opened it, and she saw the child. And behold, a boy wept. And she had pity on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrews' sons.
And his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call a woman, a nurse of the Hebrew women for you, that she may nurse the child for you?
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the girl went and called the child's mother.
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give your wages. And the woman took the child and nursed it.
And the child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses. And she said, Because I took him out of the water.
And it happened in those days, when Moses was grown, he went out to his brothers and looked upon their burdens. And he saw an Egyptian striking a Hebrew, one of his brothers.
And he looked this way and that way, and when he did not see anyone, he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand.
And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together. And he said to the guilty one, Why do you strike your neighbor?
And he said, Who made you as a man, a ruler and a judge over us? Do you intend to kill me as you killed the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing is known.
And when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and lived in the land of Midian. And he sat down by a well.
And the priest of Midian had seven daughters. And they came and drew, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
And the shepherds came and drove them away. But Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock.
And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, Why have you hurried to come today?
And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew for us and watered the flock.
And he said to his daughters, And where is he? Why then have you left the man? Call him, that he may eat bread.
And Moses was content to live with the man. And he gave Moses his daughter Zipporah.
And she bore a son, and he called his name Gershom. For he said, I have been a stranger in a strange land.
And it happened after many days the king of Egypt died. And the sons of Israel sighed because of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up to God because of the bondage.
And God heard their groaning, and God remembered His covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
And God looked upon the sons of Israel, and God knew them.