Indeed, it is not profitable for me to boast. For I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
I know a man in Christ fourteen years before (whether in the body, I do not know; or outside of the body, I do not know; God knows) such a one was caught up to the third Heaven.
And I know such a man (whether in the body, or outside of the body, I do not know; God knows),
that he was caught up into Paradise and heard unspeakable words, which it is not allowed for a man to utter.
I will glory of such a one, yet I will not boast on my behalf, except in my weaknesses.
For if I desire to boast, I shall not be foolish. For I will speak the truth. But I spare, lest anyone should think of me as being beyond what he sees me, or hears of me;
and by the surpassing revelations, lest I not be made haughty, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be made haughty.
For this thing I besought the Lord three times, that it might depart from me.
And He said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for My power is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may overshadow me.
Therefore I am pleased in weaknesses, in insults, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake; for when I am weak, then I am powerful.
I have become foolish boasting. You compelled me. For I ought to be commended by you. For I lacked nothing of the highest apostles, though I am nothing.
Truly the signs of the apostles were worked out among you in all patience, in miracles and in wonders, and by works of power.
For what is it in which you were inferior to the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong.
Behold, a third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not burden you, for I do not seek your things, but you. For the children ought not to lay up treasure for the parents, but the parents for the children.
And I will very gladly spend and be spent for your souls, even if loving you more and more, I am loved the less.
But let it be so, I did not burden you. But being crafty, I caught you with bait.
By any whom I have sent to you, did I overreach you by him?
I begged Titus and sent with him the brother. Did Titus overreach you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps?
Again, do you think we are defending to you? We speak before God in Christ, but we do all things, dearly beloved, for your building up.
For I fear, lest somehow coming I might not find you as I wish, and that I shall be found by you such as you might not wish; lest somehow there be strifes, envyings, angers, contentions, backbitings, whisperings, proud thoughts, tumults;
lest in my coming again my God will humble me with you; and I shall mourn many who have already sinned, and not repenting over the uncleanness, and fornication, and lustfulness which they have practiced.