And the Feast of Unleavened Bread , being called Passover, drew near.
And the chief priests and the scribes sought how to destroy Him; for they feared the people.
And Satan entered into Judas, the one having been called Iscariot, being of the number of the Twelve.
And going, he talked with the chief priests and the commanders as to how he might betray Him.
And they exulted, and they agreed to give him silver.
And he fully consented and sought opportunity to betray Him to them, away from the crowd.
And the day of the Unleavened Bread came, on which the passover must be killed.
And He sent Peter and John, saying, Going, prepare for us the passover, that we may eat.
And they said to Him, Where do You desire that we prepare?
And He said to them, Behold, you going into the city, you will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him into the house where he goes in.
And you will say to the housemaster of that house, The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room where I may eat the passover with My disciples?
And that one will show you a large upper room which he has spread. Prepare there.
And going, they found as He had told them, and they prepared the passover.
And when the hour came, He reclined, and the twelve apostles with Him.
And He said to them, With desire I desired to eat this passover with you before My suffering.
For I say to you that never in any way I will eat of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And taking a cup, giving thanks, He said, Take this and divide it among yourselves.
For I say to you that in no way will I drink from the produce of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.
And taking a loaf, giving thanks, He broke, and gave to them, saying, This is My body being given for you. Do this for My remembrance.
And in the same way the cup, after having supped, saying, This cup is the New Covenant in My blood, which is being poured out for you.
But behold the hand of My betrayer on the table with Me!
And, indeed, the Son of man goes according as was determined, but woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!
And they began to examine themselves who then it may be of them, the one being about to do this.
And there was also a dispute among them, who of them seems to be greater.
And He said to them, The kings of the nations lord it over them, and those exercising authority over them are called benefactors.
But you be not so, but the greater among you, let him be as the lesser; and the one governing as the one serving.
For who is greater, the one serving, or the one reclining? Is it not the one reclining? But I am in your midst as One serving.
But you are those continuing with Me in My temptation.
And I appoint a kingdom to you, as My Father appointed to Me,
that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom; and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold! Satan asked for you, to sift you as wheat;
but I entreated concerning you, that your faith might not fail. And when you have turned back, confirm your brothers.
And he said to Him, Lord, I am ready to go both to prison and to death with You.
And He said, Peter, I say to you, a cock will not crow today before you will deny knowing Me three times.
And He said to them, When I sent you without a purse, or a wallet, or sandals, did you lack anything? And they said, Nothing.
Then He said to them, But now, the one having a purse, let him take it ; likewise also a wallet. And the one not having, let him sell his garment, and let him buy a sword.
For I say to you that this that has been written must yet be fulfilled in Me: "And He was numbered with the lawless." Isa. 53:12 For the things concerning Me also have an end.
And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And He said to them, It is enough.
And going out, according to His custom, He went to the Mount of Olives; and His disciples also followed Him.
And having come on the place, He said to them, Pray you will not enter into temptation.
And He was withdrawn from them, about a stone's throw. And placing the knees, He prayed,
saying, Father, if You will, take away this cup from Me; but let not My will be done, but Your will .
And an angel from Heaven appeared to Him, strengthening Him.
And being in an agony, He prayed more intently. And His sweat became as drops of blood falling down onto the earth.
And rising up from the prayer, coming to His disciples, He found them sleeping from grief.
And He said to them, Why do you sleep? Rising up, pray that you do not enter into temptation.
And as He was yet speaking, behold, a crowd! And the one called Judas, one of the Twelve, came in front of them and drew near to Jesus in order to kiss Him.
And Jesus said to him, Judas, do you betray the Son of man with a kiss?
And those around Him seeing that about to occur, they said to Him, Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
And a certain one of them struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
And answering, Jesus said, Allow it until this. And touching his ear, He healed him.
And Jesus said to those coming upon Him, chief priests, and commanders of the temple, and elders, Have you come out with swords and clubs as against a robber?
When I was with you day by day in the temple, you did not stretch out your hand on Me. But this is your hour and the authority of the darkness.
And laying hold of Him, they led Him away and led Him into the house of the high priest. And Peter followed at a distance.
And lighting a fire in the middle of the court, and they sitting down, Peter sat in their midst.
And a certain slave woman seeing him sitting near the light, and looking intently at him, she said, And this one was with him.
But he denied Him, saying, Woman, I do not know Him.
And after a while, another seeing him said, You also are of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not.
And about an hour intervening, a certain other one boldly charged, saying, Truly this one also was with him, for he also is a Galilean.
And Peter said, Man, I do not know what you say. And immediately, while he yet spoke, the cock crowed.
And turning, the Lord looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He told him, Before a cock would crow, you will deny Me three times.
And going outside, Peter wept bitterly.
And the men who were holding Jesus mocked Him, beating Him .
And blindfolding Him, they were striking His face and questioning Him, saying, Prophesy, who is the one stinging you?
And blaspheming, many other things they said to Him.
And when day came, the body of elders of the people, the chief priests and scribes, were gathered. And they led Him away into their sanhedrin, saying,
If you are the Christ, tell us. And He said to them, If I tell you, you will in no way believe.
And also if I ask, in no way will you answer Me, or let Me go.
From now on the Son of man will be sitting at the right of the power of God. Psa. 110:1
And they all said, Then are you the Son of God? And He said to them, You say it , because I AM!
And they said, Why do we yet have need of witness? For we ourselves heard it from his mouth.