And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the former heaven and the former earth had passed away: and the sea was no more.
And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven, from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a great voice out of heaven, saying: Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them: and they shall be his people, and God himself will be with them, their God.
And he will wipe every tear from their eyes, and there shall be no more death; neither shall there be any more sorrow, nor crying, nor pain; for the former things have passed away.
And he that sat upon the throne said: Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me: Write, for these words are true and faithful.
And he said to me: It is done; I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. To him that thirsts, I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely.
He that overcomes, shall inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.
But the fearful, and the unbelieving, and the detestable, and murderers and lewd persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, shall have their part in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
And there came one of the seven angels that had the seven cups full of the seven last plagues; and he talked with me, saying: Come hither, and I will show you the bride, the Lamb’s wife.
And he carried me away in spirit to a mountain, great and high, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
having the glory of God: that which gave it light was like a most costly stone, like jasper-stone, brilliant as crystal.
It had a wall, great and high; and it had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel;
on the east, three gates; on the north, three gates; on the south, three gates; and on the west, three gates.
And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And he that talked with me had a measure, a golden reed, that he might measure the city, and its gates, and its wall.
And the city lies square: and its length is as great as its breadth. And he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs: the length, and the breadth, and the hight of it are equal.
And he measured the wall of it, a hundred and forty-four cubits, the measure of a man, that is, of an angel.
And the wall of it was built of jasper; and the city was pure gold, like clear glass.
And the foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every costly stone: the first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;
the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, crysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, hyacinth; the twelfth, amethyst.
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; every gate was of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, like clear glass.
And I saw no temple in it: for the Lord God the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its temple.
And the city had no need of the sun, nor of the moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God gave it light, and the lamp of it is the Lamb.
And the nations shall walk by the light of it; and the kings of the earth bring their glory and their honor into it.
And its gates shall not be shut at all by day: for there shall be no night there.
And they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it.
And there shall not enter it any thing unclean, or that does what is detestable, or that makes a lie: but those who are written in the Lamb’s book of life.