And Tobias answered and said to him, Father, I will do all things, whatever you have commanded me:
but how shall I be able to receive the money, seeing I know him not?
And he gave him the handwriting, and said to him, Seek you a man which shall go with you, and I will give him wages, whiles I yet live: and go and receive the money.
And he went to seek a man, and found Raphael which was an angel;
and he knew it not; and he said to him, Can I go with you to Rages of Media? and know you the places well?
And the angel said to him, I will go with you, and I know the way well: and I have lodged with our brother Gabael.
And Tobias said to him, Wait for me, and I will tell my father.
And he said to him, Go, and wait not. And he went in and said to his father, Behold, I have found one which will go with me. But he said, Call him to me, that I may know of what tribe he is, and whether he be a trusty man to go with you.

And he called him, and he came in, and they saluted one another.
And Tobit said to him, Brother, of what tribe and of what family are you? Show me.
And he said to him, Seek you a tribe and a family, or a hired man which shall go with your son? And Tobit said to him, I would know, brother, your kindred and your name.
And he said, I am Azarias, the son of Ananias the great, of your brethren.
And he said to him, Welcome, brother; and be not angry with me, because I sought to know your tribe and family: and you are my brother, of an honest and good lineage: for I knew Ananias and Jathan, the sons of Shemaiah the great, when we went together to Jerusalem to worship, and offered the firstborn, and the tenths of our increase; and they went not astray in the error of our brethren: my brother, you are of a great stock.
But tell me, what wages shall I give you? a drachma a day, and those things that be necessary for you, as to my son?
And moreover, if you⌃ return safe and sound, I will add something to your wages.
And so they consented. And he said to Tobias, Prepare yourself for the journey, and God prosper you. And his son prepared what was needful for the journey, and his father said to him, Go you with this man; but God, which dwells in heaven, shall prosper your journey; and may his angel go with you. And they both went forth to depart, and the young man’s dog with them.

But Anna his mother wept, and said to Tobit, Why have you sent away our child? is he not the staff of our hand, in going in and out before us?
Be not greedy to add money to money: but let it be as refuse in respect of our child.
For as the Lord has given us to live, so does it suffice us.
And Tobit said to her, Take no care, my sister; he shall return safe and sound, and your eyes shall see him.
For a good angel shall go with him, and his journey shall be prospered, and he shall return safe and sound.
And she made an end of weeping.
