Come near, nations, to hear; and, you people, listen; let the earth hear, and its fullness; the world, and its offspring.
For the anger of the LORD is on all nations, and His fury on all their armies. He has completely destroyed them, He has delivered them to the slaughter.
Also their dead shall be thrown out, and their stink shall come up out of their dead bodies, and the mountains shall be melted with their blood.
And all the host of the heavens shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled like a scroll; and all their host shall droop, as a leaf falls off from the vine, and as the falling from the fig tree.
For My sword bathed in the heavens. Behold, it shall come down on Edom, and on the people of My curse for judgment.
The sword of the LORD is filled with blood; it is made fat with fatness, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams; for the LORD has a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
And the wild oxen shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls; and their land shall be soaked with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness.
For it is the day of the LORD's vengeance, the year to repay for the fighting against Zion.
And its streams shall be turned into pitch, and its dust to brimstone, and its land shall become burning pitch.
It shall not be put out night or day; its smoke shall go up forever. From generation to generation it shall lie waste; none passes through it forever and forever.
But the pelican and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also, and the raven, shall dwell in it. And He shall stretch out on it the line of shame, and the stones of emptiness.
They shall call its nobles to the kingdom, but none shall be there, and all her rulers shall be nothing.
And thorns shall come up in her palaces, nettles and thistles in its fortresses; and it shall be a home of jackals and a court for ostriches.
The wild beasts of the desert shall also meet with the howling beasts; and the shaggy goat shall cry to his fellow. The screech owl also shall rest there, and find for herself a place of rest.
There the snake shall nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shadow; there shall the vultures also be gathered, every one with her mate.
Seek out of the book of the LORD, and read; not one of these shall fail, none shall lack its mate; for My mouth has commanded, and His Spirit has gathered them.
And He has cast the lot for them, and His hand has divided it to them by line; they shall possess it forever, from generation to generation they shall dwell in it.