Then did all Israel gather themselves together to David, unto Hebron, saying,—Lo! thy bone and thy flesh, are we.
Moreover also, in time past even when Saul was king, thou, wast he that led out and brought in Israel,—and Yahweh thy God said unto thee, Thou, shalt shepherd my people Israel, Yea, thou, shalt be chief ruler, over my people Israel.
Thus came all the elders of Israel unto the king, to Hebron, and David solemnised to them a covenant in Hebron, before Yahweh,—and they anointed David to be king over Israel, according to the word of Yahweh, through Samuel.
Then went David and all Israel to Jerusalem, the same, was Jebus,—where were the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land.
And the inhabitants of Jebus said unto David, Thou shalt not come in hither,—But David captured the citadel of Zion, the same, is the city of David.
And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites, first, shall become a chief, and a ruler,—So then Joab son of Zeruiah, went up first, and became a chief.
And David dwelt in the citadel,—for this cause, did they call it, The City of David.
And he built the city round about, from Millo even as far as the circuit,—but, Joab, suffered the remainder of the city to live.
Thus did David wax greater and yet greater,—and, Yahweh of Hosts, was with him.
Now, these, are the chiefs of the heroes, that pertained to David, who held strongly with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to make him king,—according to the word of Yahweh, concerning Israel.
And, this, is the number of the heroes who pertained to David,—Jashobeam son of a Hachmonite, chief of the thirty, the same, brandished his spear over three hundred—slain at one time.
And, after him, was Eleazar son of Dodai, the Ahohite,—he, was among the three heroes;
he, was with David in Pas-dammim, where, the Philistines, were gathered together to battle, and there was a field-plot full of barley,—and, the people, fled, from before the Philistines;
so they took their stand in the midst of the plot and rescued it, and smote the Philistines,—and Yahweh wrought a great victory.
And three of the thirty chiefs went down upon the rock, unto David, into the cave of Adullam,—a host of Philistines, being encamped in the vale of Rephaim.
Now, David, then was in the stronghold,—and, a garrison of Philistines, then was in Bethlehem.
And David longed, and said—Who will give me to drink of the water, out of the well of Bethlehem, that is within the gate?
And the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem, that was within the gate, and bare it, and brought it in unto David,—yet would not David drink it, but poured it out unto Yahweh;
and said—Far be it from me, of my God, that I should do this! The blood of these men, shall I drink, with their lives? For, with their lives, have they brought it! So he would not drink it. These things, did the three heroes.
And, Abishai brother of Joab—he, was the chief of three, he, having brandished his spear against three hundred—who were slain,—and so, he, had a name among three.
Of the three in the second rank, was he honourable, therefore became he their captain,—though, unto the [first] three, did he not attain.
Benaiah, son of Jehoiada, son of a man of valour, hero of many a deed, from Kabziel—he, smote the two [sons] of Ariel of Moab, he, also went down and smote a lion in the midst of a pit, in time of snow;
he, also smote an Egyptian, a man of [great] stature, five cubits, and, in the hand of the Egyptian, was a spear like a weaver’s beam, so he went down unto him with a staff,—and wrested the spear out of the hand of the Egyptian, and slew him with his spear.
These things, did Benaiah son of Jehoiada, so, he, had a name among three heroes.
Among the thirty, lo! honourable, was he, but, unto the [first] three, did he not attain,—howbeit David set him over his council.
Now, the heroes of the forces, were,—Asahel, brother of Joab, Elhanan, son of Dodo, of Bethlehem;
Shammoth, the Harorite, Helez the Paltite;
Ira, son of Ikkesh, the Tekoite, Abiezer, the Anathothite;
Sibbecai, the Hushathite, Ilai, the Ahohite;
Maharai, the Netophathite, Heled, son of Baanah, the Netophathite;
Ithai, son of Ribai, of Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin,—Benaiah, the Pirathonite;
Hurai, of the torrents of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite;
Azmaveth, the Baharumite, Eliahba, the Shaalbonite;
the sons of Hashem, the Gizonite, Jonathan, son of Shageh, the Hararite;
Ahiam, son of Sacar, the Hararite, Eliphal, son of Ur;
Hepher, the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite;
Hezro, the Carmelite, Naarai, son of Ezbai;
Joel, brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Hagri;
Zelek, the Ammonite,—Naharai, the Berothite, the armour-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah;
Ira, the Ithrite, Gareb, the Ithrite;
Uriah, the Hittite, Zabad son of Ahlai;
Adina, son of Shiza, the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites and over the thirty;
Hanan, son of Maacah, and Joshaphat, the Mithnite;
Uzzia, the Ashterathite,—Shama, and Jeiel, sons of Hotham, the Aroerite;
Jediael, son of Shimri, and Joha, his brother, the Tizite;
Eliel, the Mahavite, and Jeribai and Joshaviah, sons of Elnaam,—and Ithmah the Moabite;
Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel, of Zobah.