In his days, came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon,—and Jehoiakim became his servant three years, then turned he and rebelled against him.
And Yahweh sent against him troops of Chaldeans, and troops of Syrians, and troops of Moabites, and troops of the sons of Ammon, yea he sent them against Judah, to destroy him,—according to the word of Yahweh, which he spake through his servants the prophets.
Surely, it was, because of the anger of Yahweh, that this came upon Judah, to remove them from his presence,—for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he had done:
moreover also, for the innocent blood that he had shed, so that he had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood,—which Yahweh was not willing to pardon.
Now, the rest of the story of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers,—and, Jehoiachin his son, reigned, in his stead.
And the king of Egypt came no more again out of his land,—for the king of Babylon had taken—from the ravine of Egypt, unto the river Euphrates, all that had belonged to the king of Egypt.
Eighteen years old, was Jehoiachin when he began to reign, and, three months, reigned he in Jerusalem,—and, his mother’s name, was Nehushta daughter of Elnathan, of Jerusalem.
And he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh,—according to all that, his father, had done.
At that time, came up the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem,—and the city came into the siege.
And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, and his servants were about to besiege it.
Then came out Jehoiachin king of Judah, unto the king of Babylon, he and his mother, and his servants, and his generals, and his courtiers,—and the king of Babylon took him, in the eighth year of his reign.
And he carried forth from thence, all the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the house of the king,—and he cut off all the fittings of gold, which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of Yahweh, according to all that, Yahweh, had spoken.
And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the generals, and all the mighty men of valour, ten thousand becoming captives, and all the artificers and the smiths,—none remained save the poorest of the people of the land.
And he carried away captive Jehoiachin, to Babylon,—and, the king’s mother, and the king’s wives, and his courtiers, and the nobles of the land, took he away captive, from Jerusalem to Babylon.
And, all the men of might—seven thousand, and artificers and smiths—a thousand, all who were valiant and ready to make war, the king of Babylon brought them captive to Babylon.
And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah, his relative, king in his stead,—and changed his name to Zedekiah.
Twenty-one years old, was Zedekiah when he began to reign, and, eleven years, reigned he in Jerusalem,—and, his mother’s name, was Hamutal, daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
And he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh,—according to all that, Jehoiakim, had done.
For, it was because the anger of Yahweh had come against Jerusalem, and against Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah rebelled, against the king of Babylon.