Come down, and sit on the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground. There is no throne for you, O daughter of the Chaldeans. For you shall no more be called tender and delicate.
Take the millstones and grind meal. Push back your veil, draw up your skirt, uncover your leg, pass over the rivers.
Your nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, your shame shall be seen; I will take vengeance and I will not meet you as a man.
Our Redeemer, the LORD of hosts is His name, the Holy One of Israel.
Sit silent, and go into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for you shall no more be called the mistress of kingdoms.
I was angry with My people, I have polluted My inheritance, and given them into your hand. You showed them no mercy; you have very heavily laid your yoke on the aged.
And you said, I shall be a mistress forever; so you did not lay these things to your heart, nor remembered the latter end of it.
Now then hear this, O pleasure seeker, who lives carelessly; who says in her heart, I am, and none else is; I shall not sit as a widow, nor shall I know the loss of children
But these two things shall come to you in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood. They shall come on you in their fullness for the multitude of your sorceries, and for the great power of your enchantments.
For you have trusted in your wickedness; you have said, No one sees me. Your wisdom and your knowledge, it has perverted you; and you have said in your heart, I am, and there is no one else.
But evil shall come on you; you shall not know its origin. And mischief shall fall on you; you shall not be able to put it off. And desolation shall come on you suddenly, you shall not know.
Stand now with your spells, and with the multitude of your sorceries, in which you have wearied yourself since your youth. Perhaps you will be able to profit; perhaps you may bring terror.
You are exhausted by your many plans; now let the astrologers, the stargazers, making known what is coming on you into the new moons.
Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame; there shall not be a coal to warm them; nor fire, to sit before it.
So they are to you with whom you labored, your merchants from your youth. Each one wanders to his own way; none shall save you.