And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon, for he had heard that they had anointed him king instead of his father. For Hiram was always a lover of David.
And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying,
You know how David my father could not build a house to the name of the LORD his God because of the wars which were around him on every side, until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet.
But now the LORD my God has given me rest all around. There is no foe nor evil happening.
And behold, I purpose to build a house to the name of the LORD my God, as the LORD spoke to David my father, saying, Your son whom I will set on your throne in your place; he shall build a house to My name.
And now command that they cut me cedar trees out of Lebanon, and my servants shall be with your servants. And I will give you hire for your servants according to all that you shall say. For you know that not a man among us can cut timber like the Sidonians.
And it happened when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly and said, Blessed be the LORD this day, who has given David a wise son over this great people.
And Hiram sent to Solomon saying, I have heard that for which you sent to me. I will do all your desire concerning timber of cedar, and concerning timber of fir.
My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon to the sea. And I will bring them by sea in floats to the place that you shall name. And I will cause them to be left there, and you shall receive them. And you shall fulfill my desire in giving food for my household.
And Hiram gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees, all his desire.
And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food for his household, and twenty measures of pure oil. So Solomon gave to Hiram year by year.
And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom, as He promised him. And there was peace between Hiram and Solomon. And the two of them made a treaty together.
And king Solomon raised a levy out of all Israel. And the labor force was thirty thousand men.
And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month, by courses. They were a month in Lebanon, and two months at home. And Adoniram was over the labor force.
And Solomon had seventy thousand who bore burdens, and eighty thousand woodcutters in the mountains,
besides the chief of Solomon's overseers who were over the work, thirty-three hundred, who ruled over the people who labored in the work.
And the king commanded, and they brought great stones, costly stones, cut stones, to lay the foundation of the house.
And Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders and the Giblites cut out and prepared the timber and the stones to build the house.