After these things, Jesus went away over the Sea of Galilee, the Tiberian Sea .
And a great crowd followed Him, for they saw His miracles which He did on the sick ones.
And Jesus went up into the mountain and sat there with His disciples.
And the Passover was near, the feast of the Jews.
Then Jesus lifting up His eyes and seeing that a great crowd is coming to Him, He said to Philip, From where may we buy loaves that these may eat?
But He said this to test him, for He knew what He was about to do.
Philip answered Him, Loaves for two hundred denarii are not enough for them, that each of them may receive a little.
One of His disciples said to Him, Andrew the brother of Simon Peter,
A little boy is here who has five barley loaves and two fish; but what are these for so many?
And Jesus said, Make the men to recline. And much grass was in the place. Then the men reclined, the number was about five thousand.
And Jesus took the loaves, and giving thanks distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to those reclining. And in the same way the fish, as much as they desired.
And when they were filled, He said to His disciples, Gather up the fragments left over, that not anything be lost.
Then they gathered and filled twelve hand baskets with fragments of the five barley loaves which were left over to those who had eaten.
Then seeing what miracle Jesus did, the men said, This is truly the Prophet, the one coming into the world.
Then knowing that they were about to come and seize Him, that they might make Him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain alone by Himself.
And when it became evening, His disciples went down on the sea.
And entering into the boat, they were going across the sea to Capernaum. And darkness had already occurred, and Jesus had not come to them.
And the sea was aroused by a great wind blowing.
Then having rowed about twenty five or thirty furlongs, they saw Jesus walking on the sea. And He having come near the boat, they were afraid.
But He said to them, I AM! Do not fear.
Then they desired to take Him into the boat. And the boat was instantly at the land to which they were going.
On the morrow, the crowd standing on the other side of the sea had seen that no other little boat was there except one, that one into which His disciples entered, and that Jesus did not go with His disciples into the small boat, but that the disciples went away alone.
But other small boats came from Tiberias near the place where they ate the loaves, the Lord having given thanks.
Therefore, when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there nor His disciples, they themselves also entered into the boats and came to Capernaum seeking Jesus.
And finding Him across the sea, they said to Him, Rabbi, when did you come here?
Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek Me not because you saw miracles, but because you ate of the loaves and were satisfied.
Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of man will give to you; for God the Father sealed this One.
Then they said to Him, What may we do that we may work the works of God?
Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe into Him whom that One sent.
Then they said to Him, Then what miracle do you do that we may see and may believe you? What do you work?
Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written "He gave them bread out of Heaven to eat." LXX-Psa. 77:24; MT-Psa. 78:24
Then Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses has not given you the bread out of Heaven, but My Father gives you the true bread out of Heaven.
For the bread of God is He coming down out of Heaven and giving life to the world.
Then they said to Him, Lord, always give us this bread.
Jesus said to them, I am the Bread of life; the one coming to Me will not at all hunger, and the one believing into Me will never ever thirst.
But I said to you that you also have seen Me and did not believe.
All that the Father gives to Me shall come to Me, and the one coming to Me I will in no way cast out.
For I have come down out of Heaven, not that I should do My will, but the will of Him who sent Me.
And this is the will of the Father sending Me, that of all that He has given Me, I shall not lose any of it, but shall raise it up in the last day.
And this is the will of the One sending Me, that everyone seeing the Son and believing into Him should have everlasting life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
Then the Jews murmured about Him, because He said, I am the Bread coming down out of Heaven.
And they said, Is this not Jesus the son of Joseph, of whom we know the father and the mother? How does this one now say, I have come down out of Heaven?
Then Jesus answered and said to them, Do not murmur with one another.
No one is able to come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him, and I will raise him up in the last day.
It has been written in the Prophets, They "shall" all "be taught of God." So then everyone who hears and learns from the Father comes to Me; Isa. 54:13
not that anyone has seen the Father, except the One being from God, He has seen the Father.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the one believing into Me has everlasting life.
I am the Bread of life.
Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and died.
This is the Bread coming down out of Heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.
I am the Living Bread that came down from Heaven. If anyone eats of this Bread, he will live forever. And indeed the bread which I will give is My flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
Then the Jews argued with one another, saying, How can this one give us his flesh to eat?
Then Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, except you eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink His blood, you do not have life in yourselves.
The one partaking of My flesh and drinking of My blood has everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
For My flesh is truly food, and My blood is truly drink.
The one partaking of My flesh and drinking of My blood abides in Me, and I in him.
Even as the living Father sent Me, and I live through the Father; also the one partaking Me, even that one will live through Me.
This is the Bread which came down out of Heaven, not as your fathers ate the manna and died; the one partaking of this Bread will live forever.
He said these things teaching in a synagogue in Capernaum.
Then many of His disciples having heard, they said, This word is hard; who is able to hear it?
But knowing in Himself that His disciples were murmuring about this, Jesus said to them, Does this offend you?
Then what if you see the Son of man going up where He was at first?
It is the Spirit that gives life. The flesh does not profit, nothing! The words which I speak to you are spirit and are life.
But there are some of you who are not believing. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were not believing, and who was the one betraying Him.
And He said, Because of this, I have told you that no one is able to come to Me except it is given to him from My Father.
From this time many of His disciples went away into the things behind, and no longer walked with Him.
Therefore, Jesus said to the Twelve, Do you also wish to go?
Then Simon Peter answered Him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of everlasting life.
And we have believed and have known that You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the Twelve? Yet one of you is a devil!
But He spoke of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, for this one was about to betray Him, being one of the Twelve.