Lo! all [this], hath mine own eye seen,—Mine ear hath heard and understood it:
Just as ye know, I too, know, I, fall not short, of you.
But indeed, I, unto the Almighty, would speak, and, to direct my argument unto GOD, would I be well pleased.
For, in truth, ye, do besmear with falsehood, Worthless physicians, all of you!
Oh that ye would, altogether hold your peace, and it should serve you for wisdom!
Hear, I pray you, the argument of my mouth, and, to the pleadings of my lips, give heed:—
Is it, for God, ye would speak perversely? And, for him, would ye speak deceit:
Even, for him, would ye be partial? Or, for GOD, would ye [so] plead?
Would it be well, when he searched you out? Or, as one might jest with a mortal, would ye jest, with him?
He will, severely rebuke, you, if ye are secretly partial.
Shall not, his majesty, overwhelm you? and, the dread of him, fall upon you?
Are not your memorable sayings, proverbs of ashes? Breastworks of clay, your breastworks?
Quietly let me alone, that, I, may speak out, then let come on me, what may.
In any case, I will take up my flesh in my teeth, and, my life, will I put in my hand:
Lo! he may slay me, [yet], for him, will I wait,—Nevertheless, my ways—unto his face, will I show to be right:
Even he, will be on my side—unto salvation, For, not before his face, shall any impious person come.
Hear ye patiently my speech, and be my declaration in your ears.
Lo! I pray you, I have set forth in order a plea, I know that, I, shall be found right.
Who is it that shall contend with me? For, now, if I should hold my peace, why! I should breathe my last!
Only, two things, do thou not with me, then, from thy face, will I not hide me:—
Thy hand—from off me, take thou far away, and, thy terror, let it not startle me!
Then call thou, and, I, will answer, Or I will speak, and reply thou unto me.
How many are mine iniquities and sins? My transgression and my sin, let me know!
Wherefore, thy face, shouldst thou hide? Or count me, as an enemy to thee?
A driven leaf, wilt thou cause to tremble? Or, dry stubble, wilt thou pursue?
For thou writest, against me, bitter things, and dost make me inherit the iniquities of my youth;
And thou dost put—in the stocks—my feet, and observest all my paths, Against the roots of my feet, thou dost cut out a bound;
And, a man himself, as a rotten thing, weareth out, as a garment which the moth hath eaten.