AT that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report of Jesus,
and said unto his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen from the dead, and therefore miracles are wrought by him.
For Herod having seized John, had bound him, and put him in prison, for the sake of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother.
For John said unto him, It is unlawful for thee to have her.
And though he wished to kill him, he was afraid of the multitude, for they held him as a prophet.
But when Herod’s birth-day was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced in the circle, and pleased Herod:
so that with an oath he promised to give her whatever she should ask.
And she, being previously urged on by her mother, said, Give me here, in a spacious dish, the head of John the Baptist.
And the king was grieved: but for his oath’s sake, and on account of those who were with him, he commanded it to be given her.
And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison.
And his head was brought on a large dish, and was given to the young lady: and she brought it to her mother.
And his disciples came and took the body, and buried it, and they came and told Jesus.
And when Jesus heard it, he withdrew from thence in a vessel into a desert place apart: and when the multitudes heard it, they followed him on foot from the cities.
And when Jesus was come forth, he saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion towards them, and healed their sick.
But when evening was come, his disciples came unto him, saying, The place is desert, and the day is far advanced; send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves provisions.
But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart: give ye them to eat.
And they said unto him, We have nothing here except five loaves and two fishes.
Then he said, Bring them hither to me.
And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and the two fishes, looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up the superabundance of the fragments, twelve baskets full.
And they who had eaten, were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
And immediately Jesus compelled his disciples to go on board the vessel, and pass before him to the other side, while he dismissed the people.
And when he had sent away the multitude, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when evening came, he was there alone.
But the vessel was already in the midst of the sea, tossed with the waves: for the wind was contrary.
Then at the fourth watch of the night came Jesus unto them, walking on the sea.
And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were greatly agitated, saying, It is his apparition. And they cried out with terror.
And immediately Jesus spake to them, saying, Be of good courage: it is I; be not terrified.
Then Peter answering, said, Lord, if it be thou, command me to come unto thee upon the waters.
And he said, Come. And descending from the vessel, Peter walked upon the waters to come to Jesus.
But seeing the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink in the deep, he cried out, saying, Lord save me.
Then immediately Jesus stretching out his hand, laid hold on him, and said to him, O thou of little faith, wherefore dost thou doubt?
And when they came aboard the vessel, the wind ceased.
And they who were in the vessel, came and worshipped him, saying, Truly thou art the Son of God.
And passing over, they came to the land of Gennesareth.
And when the men of that place knew him, they sent into all that neighbourhood, and brought to him all that had illnesses:
and they besought him that they might only touch the fringe of his garment: and as many as touched it were cured.