He that being often reproved stiffeneth his neck, suddenly shall be hurt, and there be no healing.
When the righteous become great, the people rejoice, but, when a lawless man beareth rule, a people sigh.
A man who loveth wisdom, gladdeneth his father, but, a companion of harlots, destroyeth wealth.
A king, by justice, shall establish a land,—but, a man open to bribes, bringeth it to ruin.
A man who flattereth his neighbour, spreadeth, a net, over his steps.
In the transgression of a wicked man, is a snare, but, the righteous, doth shout in triumph and rejoice.
The righteous doth acknowledge the plea of the poor, but, the lawless, regardeth not knowledge.
Men given to mockery, inflame a city,—but, wise men, turn away anger.
A wise man pleading with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no settlement.
Blood-thirsty men, hate the blameless man, and, as for the upright, they seek his life.
All his anger, doth a dullard let go, but, a wise man, by keeping it back, stilleth it.
When a ruler giveth heed to the word of falsehood, all his attendants, become lawless.
The poor man and the man of usury, meet together, he that enlighteneth the eyes of them both, is Yahweh.
When a king judgeth faithfully the poor, his throne, to futurity, shall be established.
A rod with rebuke, giveth wisdom, but, a youth unrestrained, bringeth shame to his mother.
When the lawless become great, transgression increaseth, but, the righteous, shall behold, their ruin.
Correct thy son, that he may give thee rest, that he may give delight to thy soul.
Where there is no vision, a people is let loose, but, he that keepeth instruction, how happy is he!
By words, a servant will not be corrected, though he perceiveth, yet is there no answer.
Thou hast seen a man hasty in his words,—there is, more hope of a dullard, than of him.
He that dealeth tenderly with his servant from childhood, in his after life, shall have him for a son.
A man given to anger, stirreth up strife, and, he that exceedeth in wrath, aboundeth in transgression.
The loftiness of a man, layeth him low,—but, one of a lowly spirit, shall attain unto honour.
He that shareth with a thief, hateth himself, an oath, he heareth, yet may not tell.
The fear of man, setteth a snare, but, he that trusteth in Yahweh, shall be placed on high.
Many, seek the face of a ruler, but, from Yahweh, is the sentence of each one.
An abomination to the righteous, is the man of perversity, and, an abomination to the lawless, is a man of straightforward way.