And the fifth angel sounded; and I saw a star fall from heaven to the earth; and there was given to him the key of the pit of the abyss;
and he opened the pit of the abyss; and there arose a smoke out of the pit, like the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the pit.
And out of the smoke there came locusts upon the earth; and power was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
And they were commanded not to hurt the grass of the earth, nor any green thing, nor any tree, but the men who have not the seal of God in their foreheads.
And they were permitted, not to kill them, but to torment them five months; and the torment inflicted by them was like the torment inflicted by a scorpion, when he stings a man.
And in those days men will seek for death, and shall not find it; and they will desire to die, and death shall flee from them.
And the shapes of the locusts were like horses prepared for battle; and on their heads were, as it were, crowns of gold; and their faces were like the faces of men.
And they had hair like the hair of women; and their teeth were like the teeth of lions.
And they had breastplates like breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle.
And they had tails like scorpions, and there were stings in their tails; and they had power to hurt men five months.
And they had over them a king, the angel of the abyss: his name, in Hebrew, is Abaddon, and, in Greek, he has the name Apollyon.
The first woe is past: behold, there are coming, after this, two woes more.
And the sixth angel sounded: and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar that is before God,
saying to the sixth angel, who had the trumpet: Loose the four angels that are bound at the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels were loosed, who were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, to slay the third part of men.
And the number of the armies of horsemen was two myriads of myriads: I heard the number of them.
And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and those who sat on them; they had breastplates, fiery, and hyacinthine, and sulphurous: and the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions, and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.
By these three plagues was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and the smoke, and the brimstone that issued out of their mouths.
For their power was in their mouth and in their tails; for their tails were like serpents, and had heads, and with them they do injury.
And the rest of men that were not killed by these plagues, repented not of the works of their hands, that they might not worship demons, and idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of stone, and of wood, which can neither see, nor hear, nor walk;
and they repented not of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their lewdness, nor of their thefts.