And the word of Jehovah came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
Since I have raised you up out of the dust, and made you ruler over My people Israel, and you have walked in the way of Jeroboam, and caused My people Israel to sin, to provoke Me to anger with their sins;
behold, I will utterly sweep away Baasha and his house; and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
Him who dies of Baasha in the city, the dogs shall eat; and whoever of his dies in the field, the birds of the heavens shall eat.
And the rest of the acts of Baasha, and that which he did, and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And Baasha lay with his fathers, and was buried in Tirzah. And his son Elah reigned in his place.
And also by the hand of Jehu the son of Hanani the prophet, the word of Jehovah came against Baasha, and against his house, and against all the evil that he did in the eyes of Jehovah to provoke Him to anger with the work of his hands, to be like the house of Jeroboam, and because he killed him.
In the twenty sixth year of Asa the king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah, two years.
And his servant Zimri, the captain of half of the chariots, conspired against him. And he was in Tirzah drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the house of Tirzah.
And Zimri came in and struck him, and killed him in the twenty seventh year of Asa the king of Judah, and reigned in his place.
And it happened, when he began to reign, as he sat on his throne, that he struck all the house of Baasha; he did not leave him one who urinated against the wall, nor of his kinsmen, nor of his friends.
And Zimri destroyed the whole house of Baasha, according to the word of Jehovah that He spoke as to Baasha, by the hand of Jehu the prophet;
concerning all the sins of Baasha and the sins of his son Elah that they sinned, and that they caused Israel to sin, to provoke to anger Jehovah the God of Israel with their vanities.
And the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
In the twenty seventh year of Asa the king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah. And the people were camped against Gibbethon, which was the Philistines'.
And the people who were encamped heard, saying, Zimri has conspired and has struck the king. And all Israel made Omri the commander of the army to rule over Israel on that day in the camp.
And Omri went up, and all Israel with him from Gibbethon, and they laid siege to Tirzah.
And it happened when Zimri saw that the city would be captured he came into a high place of the king and burned the house of the king with fire over him, and died,
for his sins that he sinned, to do the evil in the eyes of Jehovah, to walk in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin that he did, to cause Israel to sin.
And the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his conspiracy that he made, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath to cause him to reign, and the other half after Omri.
And the people that followed Omri were stronger than the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath; and Tibni died, and Omri reigned.
In the thirty first year of Asa the king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel, twelve years. He reigned six years in Tirzah;
then he bought the hill Samaria from Shemer with two talents of silver, and built the hill, and called the name of the city that he built by the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill, that is Samaria.
And Omri did that which was evil in the eyes of Jehovah, and did evil above all who were before him,
and walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and in his sin that he caused Israel to sin, to provoke to anger Jehovah the God of Israel with their vanities.
And the rest of the acts of Omri that he did, and his might that he attained, are they not written in the of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And Omri laid down with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria. And his son Ahab reigned in his place.
And in the thirty eighth year of Asa the king of Judah, Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel. And Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty two years;
and Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the eyes of Jehovah above all who were before him.
And it happened as if it were a light thing, that he walked in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took a wife, Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal, the king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal, and bowed himself to it.
And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria.
And Ahab made an Asherah, and Ahab did still more to provoke to anger Jehovah the God of Israel than all the kings of Israel that were before him.
In his days Hiel the man of Bethel built Jericho; he laid its foundation in his firstborn Abiram, and he set up its doors in Segub his youngest, according to the word of Jehovah that He spoke by the hand of Joshua the son of Nun.