A record of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
and Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez was the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram,
and Ram the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon,
and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed was the father of Jesse,
and Jesse the father of David the king. And David was the father of Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah;
and Solomon was the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asa;
and Asa the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah,
and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah;
and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amon, and Amon the father of Josiah,
and Josiah the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the exile to Babylon.
And after the exile to Babylon, Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
and Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor,
and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud,
and Eliud the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob,
and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, from whom was born Jesus, who is called the Messiah.
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David to the exile to Babylon fourteen generations; and from the carrying away to Babylon to the Messiah, fourteen generations.
Now the birth of Jesus Christ was like this; for after his mother, Mary, was engaged to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit.
And Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man, and not willing to make her a public example, intended to put her away secretly.
But when he thought about these things, behold, an angel of Jehovah appeared to him in a dream, saying, "Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to yourself Mary, your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit.
And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for it is he who shall save his people from their sins."
Now all this has happened, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Jehovah through the prophet, saying,
"Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son. They shall call his name Immanuel;" which is, being interpreted, "God with us."
And Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of Jehovah commanded him, and took his wife to himself;
and had no marital relations with her until she had brought forth a son; and he named him Jesus.