And it happened after these things, testing Abraham, God said to him, Abraham! And he said, Behold me.
And He said, Now take your son, Isaac, your only one whom you love, and go into the land of Moriah. And there offer him for a burnt offering on one of the mountains which I will say to you.
And Abraham started up early in the morning and saddled his ass, and he took two of his youths with him, and his son Isaac. And he split wood for a burnt offering, and rose up and went to the place which God had said to him.
And on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from a distance.
And Abraham said to his young men, You stay here with the ass. I and the boy will go on to that place , that we may worship, and may return to you.
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on his son Isaac; and he took the fire and the knife in his hand. And the two went together.
And Isaac spoke to his father Abraham and said, My father. And he said, Behold me. And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood! But where is the lamb for a burnt offering?
And Abraham said, My son, God will see to the lamb for Himself, for a burnt offering. And the two of them went together.
And they came to the place which God had said to him. And Abraham built there the altar, and arranged the wood. And he bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar, on the wood.
And Abraham put out his hand and took the knife to slay his son.
And the Angel of Jehovah called to him from the heavens and said, Abraham! And he said, Behold me.
And He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy, nor do anything to him. For now I know that you are a God-fearer, and you have not withheld your son, your only one, from Me.
And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked. And behold! A ram behind him was entangled in a thicket by its horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it for a burnt offering instead of his son.
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Will See; so that it is said until this day, In the mount of Jehovah it will be seen.
And the Angel of Jehovah called to Abraham out of the heavens a second time.
And He said, I have sworn by Myself, declares Jehovah, that on account of this thing you have done, and not have withheld your son, your only son,
that blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand which is on the shore of the sea. And your Seed shall possess the gate of His enemies.
And in your Seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed because you have obeyed My voice.
And Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba. And Abraham lived at Beersheba.
And it happened after these things it was told to Abraham, saying, Behold! Milcah, she also, has borne sons to your brother Nahor:
Uz, his firstborn, Buz, and his brother Kemuel, the father of Aram,
and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
And Bethuel fathered Rebekah. Milcah bore these eight to Nahor, the brother of Abraham.
And his concubine called Reumah, she also bore Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.