MASTERS, afford to your servants that which is just, and an equivalent, knowing that ye also have a Master in the heavens.
Persevere in prayer, watching therein with thanksgiving;
praying also at the same time for us, that God may open to us a door for the word, that I may speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains:
that I may make it evident, as I ought to speak.
Walk wisely with regard to those without, redeeming the time.
Let your discourse be always gracious, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to reply to every man.
All my affairs will Tychicus make known unto you, a beloved brother, and faithful minister, and fellow-servant in the Lord:
whom I have sent unto you for this very purpose, that he might know your affairs, and comfort your hearts;
with Onesimus, that faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you: they will make known unto you all things that have passed here.
There salute you Aristarchus my fellow-prisoner, and Mark nephew to Barnabas, concerning whom ye have received injunctions; if he come unto you, receive him,
and Jesus, who is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These only are my fellow-labourers for the kingdom of God, who have been a comfort to me.
Epaphras, one of you, saluteth you, a servant of Christ, always wrestling for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
For I bear him witness that he hath great zeal for you, and for those in Laodicea, and those in Hierapolis.
Luke, the beloved physician, saluteth you, and Demas.
Salute the brethren that are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church which is at his house.
And when this epistle hath been read among you, cause that it also be read in the church of the Laodiceans, and that ye also read that from Laodicea.
And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received from the Lord, that thou fulfil it.
The salutation of Paul with mine own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. Amen.   Written to the Colossians from Rome by Tychicus and Onesimus. \p