Then Zophar the Naamathite answered, and said,
Therefore my thoughts cause me to answer, even because of my haste that is in me.
I have heard the reproof which puts me to shame, and the spirit of my understanding answers me.
Know thou this of old time, since man was placed upon earth,
that the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the profane but for a moment?
Though his height mounts up to the heavens, and his head reaches to the clouds,
yet he shall perish forever like his own dung. Those who have seen him shall say, Where is he?
He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found. Yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night.
The eye which saw him shall see him no more, neither shall his place any more behold him.
His sons shall seek the favor of the poor, and his hands shall give back his wealth.
His bones are full of his youth, but it shall lie down with him in the dust.
Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his tongue,
though he spares it, and will not let it go, but keep it still within his mouth,
yet his food in his bowels is turned. It is the gall of asps within him.
He has swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again. God will cast them out of his belly.
He shall suck the poison of asps. The viper's tongue shall kill him.
He shall not look upon the rivers, the flowing streams of honey and butter.
That which he labored for shall he restore, and shall not swallow it down. According to the substance that he has gotten, he shall not rejoice.
For he has oppressed and forsaken the poor. He has violently taken away a house, and he shall not build it up.
Because he knew no quietness within him, he shall not save any of that in which he delights.
There was nothing left that he did not devour, therefore his prosperity shall not endure.
In the fullness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits. The hand of everyone who is in misery shall come upon him.
When he is about to fill his belly, God will cast the fierceness of his wrath upon him, and will rain it upon him while he is eating.
He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of brass shall strike him through.
He draws it forth, and it comes out of his body, yea, the glittering point comes out of his gall. Terrors are upon him.
All darkness is laid up for his treasures. A fire not blown shall devour him. It shall consume that which is left in his tent.
The heavens shall reveal his iniquity, and the earth shall rise up against him.
The increase of his house shall depart, flowed away in the day of his wrath.
This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage appointed to him by God.