In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
He was in the beginning with God.
All things came into being through Him, and without Him not even one thing came into being that has come into being.
In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overtake it.
There was a man sent from God; his name was John.
This one came as a witness, to bear witness concerning the Light, so that all might believe through him.
He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.
He was the true Light; He enlightens every man coming into the world.
He was in the world, and the world came into being through Him, and the world did not know Him.
He came to His own, and His own received Him not.
But as many as received Him, He gave to them authority to become the children of God, to those who believe on His name,
who were born, not of bloods, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but were born of God.
And the Word became flesh, and tabernacled among us. And we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and of truth.
John bore witness of Him and cried out, saying, This was He of whom I spoke: He who comes after me has been before me, for He was preceding me.
And out of His fullness we all have received, and grace for grace.
For the law came through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
No one has seen God at any time; the Only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, He has declared Him.
And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you?
And he confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ.
And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? And he says, I am not. Are you that prophet? And he answered, No.
Then they said to him, Who are you so that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say of yourself?
He said, I am "the voice of one crying in the wilderness: Make straight the way of the Lord," as the prophet Isaiah said.
And they who were sent were from the Pharisees.
And they asked him and said, Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor that Prophet?
John answered them, saying, I baptize with water, but One stands among you whom you do not know.
He it is who, coming after me, who has been before me; of whom I am not worthy to loosen the thong of His sandal.
These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day John sees Jesus coming to him and says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!
This is He of whom I said, After me comes a Man who has been before me, for He preceded me.
And I did not know Him, but that He be revealed to Israel, therefore I have come baptizing with water.
And John bore record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from Heaven like a dove, and He abode on Him.
And I did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize with water, that One said to me, Upon whom you shall see the Spirit descending, and remaining upon Him, He is the One who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.
And I saw and bore record that this is the Son of God.
Again, the next day afterward, John stood with two of his disciples.
And looking upon Jesus as He walked, he says, Behold the Lamb of God!
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
Then Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, What do you seek? They said to Him, Rabbi (which is called, being translated Teacher), where do you live?
He says to them, Come and see. They came and saw where He lived, and stayed with Him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
One of the two who heard John and followed Him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah (which is, being translated, the Christ).
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus saw him, He said, You are Simon the son of Jonah; you shall be called Cephas (which translated is, A stone).
The day after, Jesus desired to go forth into Galilee. And He found Philip and said to him, Follow Me.
Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip found Nathanael and said to him, We have found Him of whom Moses wrote in the law and the prophets, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
And Nathanael said to him, Can there be any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see.
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him and said of him, Behold an Israelite indeed in whom is no guile!
Nathanael said to Him, From where do You know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
Nathanael answered and said to Him, Rabbi, You are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel!
Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to you, I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You shall see greater things than these.
And He said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, Hereafter you shall see Heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.