Then were moved to prophesy, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah son of Iddo, the prophets, unto the Jews who were in Judaea and in Jerusalem,—in the name of the God of Israel, unto them.
Then arose—Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God, which was in Jerusalem,—and, with them, were the prophets of God, strengthening them.
At that time, came unto them Tattenai pasha Beyond the River, and Shethar-bozenai, and their associates,—and, thus, spake they unto them, Who hath issued unto you an edict, this house, to build, and, this wall, to complete?
Then, after this manner, spake we unto them,—What are the names of these men, who, this building, do rear?
Nevertheless, the eye of their God, was upon the elders of Judah, and they did not forbid them, until the matter, unto Darius, should come,—and, then, answer be returned by letter, concerning this.
A copy of the letter which Tattenai pasha Beyond the River, and Shethar-bozenai, and his associates, the Apharsachites, who were Beyond the Rivet, sent unto Darius the king:
a message, sent they unto him,—and, thus, was it written therein, Unto Darius the king, all prosperity!
Be it known unto the king, that we journeyed into the province of Judah, unto the house of the Great God, and, the same, is being built with large stones, and, timber, is being laid in the walls,—and, this work, with speed, is being done, and is prospering in their hands.
Then asked we of these elders, thus, we said to them,—Who hath issued to you an edict, this house, to build, and, this wall, to complete?
Yea, their names also, asked we of them, to certify thee,—that we might write the name, of the men who are at their head.
And, thus, returned they, answer, to us saying,—We, are servants of the God of the heavens and the earth, and are building the house which was built these many years ago, which, a great king of Israel, built and completed.
But, after that our fathers had provoked the God of the heavens to wrath, he delivered them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean,—and, this house, he destroyed, and, the people, he exiled to Babylon.
Howbeit, in the first year of Cyrus king of Babylon, Cyrus the king, issued an edict, this house of God, to build.
Moreover also, the utensils of the house of God, of gold and silver, which, Nebuchadnezzar, had brought forth out of the temple which was in Jerusalem, and had brought into the temple of Babylon, Cyrus the king, brought them forth, out of the temple of Babylon,—and they were delivered to one Sheshbazzar by name, whom he made, pasha;
and said to him—These utensils, take, go carry them into the temple that is in Jerusalem,—and let, the house of God, be built in its place.
Then, this Sheshbazzar, came, he laid the foundations of the house of God, which was in Jerusalem,—and, since then, even until now, it hath been in building, and is not finished.
Now, therefore, if, unto the king, it seem good, let search be made in the treasure-house of the king which is there, in Babylon, whether it be so, that, from Cyrus the king, issued an edict, to build this house of God, in Jerusalem,—and, the pleasure of the king concerning this, let him send unto us.