Truly, then, the first tabernacle also had ordinances of service, and the earthly holy place.
For the first tabernacle was prepared, in which was both the lampstand and the table, and the setting out of the loaves, which is called holy.
But behind the second veil is a tabernacle, that called Holy of Holies,
having a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant covered around on all sides with gold, in which was the golden pot having the manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tablets of the covenant;
and above it the cherubs of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat (about which now is not time to speak piece by piece).
And these having been prepared thus, the priests go into the first tabernacle through all, completing the services.
But into the second the high priest goes alone once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for himself and the ignorances of the people;
the Holy Spirit signifying by this that the way of the Holies has not yet been made manifest, the first tabernacle still having standing;
which was a parable for the present time, according to which both gifts and sacrifices are offered, but as regards conscience, not being able to perfect the one serving,
but only on foods and drinks, and various washings, and fleshly ordinances, until the time of setting things right has been imposed.
But Christ having appeared as a High Priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands, that is, not of this creation,
nor through the blood of goats and of calves, but through His own blood, He entered once for all into the Holy of Holies, having procured everlasting redemption.
For if the blood of bulls and goats, and ashes of a heifer sprinkling those having been defiled, sanctifies to the purity of the flesh,
by how much more the blood of Christ (who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God), will purify your conscience from dead works for the serving of the living God!
And because of this He is Mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having occurred for redemption of transgressions under the first covenant, those having been called out might receive the promise of the everlasting inheritance.
For where a covenant is , the death of him having covenanted must be offered.
For a covenant is affirmed over those dead, since it never has force when he who has covenanted is living.
From which neither the first covenant was dedicated without blood.
For when every command had been spoken according to Law by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and he sprinkled both the scroll and all the people,
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God enjoined to you." Ex. 24:8
And he likewise sprinkled both the tabernacle and all the service vessels with the blood.
And almost all things are cleansed by blood according to the Law; and apart from shedding of blood no remission occurs.
Then it was needful for the figures of the things in the heavens to be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves by better sacrifices than these.
For Christ did not enter into the Holy of Holies made by hands, types of the true things, but into Heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf,
not that often He should offer Himself even as the high priest enters into the Holy of Holies year by year with blood of others;
since He must often have suffered from the foundation of the world. But now once for all, at the completion of the ages, He has been manifested for putting away of sin through the sacrifice of Himself.
And as it is reserved to men once to die, and after this Judgment;
so being once offered "to bear the sins of many," Christ shall appear a second time without sin to those expecting Him for salvation. Isa. 53:12