AND when he drew nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany, to the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
and saith unto them, Go into the village opposite to you: and immediately as you enter it, you will find a foal tied, on which no man yet hath rode; loose him, and bring him hither.
And if any man say to you, Why do ye this? say, That the Lord hath need of it; and immediately he will send it hither.
And they went, and found the foal tied to a gate without, where two ways met; and they untie him.
Then some of those who stood by, said unto them, What are ye about, untying the colt?
Then they said unto them, as Jesus commanded them: and they permitted them to do it.
And they brought the colt to Jesus, and put on him their garments; and he rode upon it.
And multitudes spread their garments on the road: and others cut off boughs from the trees, and strewed them on the road.
And they who went before, and who followed after, cried, saying, Hosanna: blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Blessed be the kingdom of our father David, that is coming in the name of the Lord: hosanna in the highest.
And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and looking round about upon all things, it being now even-tide, he departed to Bethany with the twelve.
And on the morrow, as they were coming out of Bethany, he was hungry:
and seeing a fig-tree at a distance, full of leaves, he went to it, expecting probably that he might find some fruit upon it: and when he came to it, he found none, only leaves: for it was not a good season for figs.
And Jesus spake and said to it, Let no man eat fruit from thee henceforth for ever. And his disciples heard him.
And they came to Jerusalem and Jesus entered into the temple, and began to cast out those who sold and bought in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of those who sold doves;
and would not suffer that any person should carry a vessel through the temple.
And he taught them, saying, Is it not written, that “My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations?” but ye have made it a den of thieves.
And the scribes and chief priests heard him, and sought how they might destroy him: for they were afraid of him, because all the people were exceedingly struck with his teaching,
And when the evening came, he went away out of the city.
And in the morning, as they were passing by, they saw the fig-tree withered from the roots.
And Peter reminding him said, Rabbi, behold, the fig-tree which thou cursedst is withered away.
And Jesus answering said to them, Have faith in God.
For verily I say to you, That whosoever shall say to this mountain, Be thou lifted up, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall harbour no doubt in his heart, but believe that what he saith shall come to pass; whatsoever he may speak shall be done for him.
Therefore I say unto you, That all things whatever ye ask in prayer, believe that ye shall receive them, and they shall be given you.
And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have a matter against any man: that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.
But if ye forgive not, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses.
And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders, come to him,
and say to him, By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this authority, that thou shouldest do these things?
Then Jesus answering said unto them, I also will ask you one question; and answer me; and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The baptism of John, was it of heaven, or of men? answer me.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we reply, From heaven; he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?
but if we say of men―they feared the people: for all men held John to be in truth a prophet.
And they answering said to Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus in reply said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.