Elihu went on and said,
Wait for me a little, and I will show you that there are yet words for God.
I will bring my knowledge from afar, and I will credit righteousness to my Maker.
For truly my words are not false; He who is perfect in knowledge is with you.
Behold, God is mighty, and does not despise; He is mighty in strength of heart.
He will not keep alive one who is wicked, but gives right to the afflicted.
He withdraws not His eyes from the righteous, but they are like kings on the throne; yes, He causes them to sit forever, and they are very high.
And if they are bound in chains, and are held in cords of affliction,
then He shows them their work, and their sins, that they have behaved themselves proudly.
He also opens their ears to teaching, and commands that they return from iniquity.
If they obey and serve Him, they shall spend their days in blessedness, and their years in pleasures.
But if they do not obey, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.
But the ungodly in heart heap up wrath; they cry not when He binds them.
Their soul dies in youth, and their life ends among the sodomites.
He delivers the poor in his affliction, and opens their ears by oppression.
And He also would have lured you from the mouth of distress to a wide place not cramped; and the setting of your table would be full of fatness.
But you have fulfilled the judgment of the wicked; judgment and justice take hold;
For beware wrath, that He not lure you with His scorn; then a great ransom cannot turn you aside.
If your cry for help is set in order, then it will not be. in distress, but with all the forces of strength.
Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place.
Beware, do not turn to iniquity; for this you have chosen rather than affliction.
Behold, God is exalted in His power; who teaches like Him?
Who has appointed Him His way; or who can say, You have done wrong?
Remember that you magnify His work of which men have sung;
every man has seen it; man may see it afar off.
Behold, God is great, and we do not know; the number of His years cannot be searched out.
For He draws up the drops of water; they distill rain into mist,
which the clouds pour down and drop on man plentifully.
Also can any understand the spreading of the clouds, or the crashing of His canopy?
Behold, He spreads His light on it, and He covers the bottom of the sea.
For by them He judges the people; He gives plenty of food.
He covers His hands with the lightning, and commands it to strike the mark;
its thunder declares concerning Him, and the cattle, concerning what is coming.