Now, when morning came, all the High-priests and Elders of the people took, counsel, against Jesus, so as to put him to death:
and, binding him, they led him away, and delivered him up unto Pilate the governor.
Then, Judas who had delivered him up, seeing that he was condemned, being smitten with remorse, returned the thirty pieces of silver unto the High-priests and Elders,
saying—I have sinned, in delivering up righteous blood. But, they, said—What is that to us? thou, shalt see to it for thyself.
And, throwing the pieces of silver into the Temple, he withdrew, and, going away, hanged himself.
But, the High-priests, taking the pieces of silver, said—It is not allowed, to cast them into the treasury; since, a price of blood, they are.
And, taking counsel, they bought with them, the field of the potter, as a burial-place for strangers.
Wherefore, that field hath been called Field of Blood, until this day.
Then, was fulfilled, that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying: And they took the thirty pieces of silver, as the value of him whom they had valued, whom they had valued, of Israel’s sons,—
And gave them for the field of the potter, as, the Lord, directed me.
Now, Jesus, stood before the governor; and the governor questioned him, saying—Thou, art the king of the Jews? And, Jesus, said—Thou, sayest.
And, while he was being accused by the High-priests and Elders, he answered nothing.
Then, Pilate saith unto him—Hearest thou not how many things against thee they are bearing witness?
And he answered him, no not so much as a single word, so that the governor was marvelling exceedingly.
But, feast by feast, the governor had been wont to release one unto the multitude, a prisoner whom they were desiring.
Now they had at that time a distinguished prisoner, called, Barabbas.
They therefore having come together, Pilate, said to them—Whom will ye I should release unto you? Barabbas? or Jesus, who is called Christ?
For he knew that, for envy, they had delivered him up.
And, as he was sitting upon the judgment seat, his wife sent unto him, saying: Have thou nothing to do with that righteous man, for, many things, have I suffered this day, by dream, because of him.
But, the High-priests and the elders, persuaded the multitudes, that they should claim Barabbas, but, Jesus, should, destroy.
Now the governor, answering, said unto them—Which of the two desire ye I should release unto you? And they said—Barabbas!
Pilate saith unto them—What then shall I do unto Jesus, who is called Christ? They all say—Let him be crucified!
But, he, said—Indeed! what evil hath he done? But, they, vehemently, were crying aloud, saying—Let him be crucified!
And Pilate, seeing, that, nothing, it availed, but rather, a tumult, was arising, taking water, washed his hands of it before the multitude, saying—Innocent, am I, of the blood of this man,—Ye, shall see to it for yourselves.
And all the people, answering, said—His blood be upon us and upon our children!
Then released he unto them Barabbas, but, scourging, Jesus, delivered him up, that he might be crucified.
Then the soldiers of the governor, taking Jesus aside into the judgment-hall, gathered unto him all the band;
and, unclothing him, a scarlet scarf, put they about him,—
and, plaiting a crown out of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand,—and, kneeling before him, began to mock him, saying—Joy to thee, King of the Jews!
And, spitting upon him, they took the reed, and began striking upon his head.
And, when they had mocked him, they put off him the scarf, and put on him his garments, and led him away unto the crucifying.
And, as they were going forth, they found a man of Cyrene, by name, Simon,—the same, they impressed to bear his cross.
And, coming into a place called Golgotha, that is to say, Skull-place,
they gave him to drink, wine, with gall, mingled, and, tasting, he would not drink.
And, having crucified him, they parted among themselves his garments, casting a cloth;
and, being seated, were watching him there.
And they put up, over his head, his accusation, written—THIS, IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then, are crucified with him, two robbers,—one on the right hand, and one on the left.
And, they who were passing by, were reviling him, shaking their heads,
and saying—The man that taketh down the Temple and in three days buildeth it! Save, thyself! If thou art God’s, Son, come down from the cross.
Likewise, the High-priests, [also], mocking, with the Scribes and Elders, were saying: Others, he saved,—Himself, he cannot save:
Israel’s King, he is! Let him come down, now, from the cross,—and we will believe on him!
He hath put confidence upon God, Let him rescue him, now, if he desireth him; for he said, I am, God’s Son.
And, the same thing, the robbers also, who were crucified with him, were casting in his teeth.
Now, from the sixth hour, darkness, came upon all the land—until the ninth hour.
And, about the ninth hour, Jesus uttered a cry, with a loud voice, saying—Eloi! Eloi! lema sabachthanei? that is, My God! my God! to what end hast thou forsaken me?
Now certain of them who were there standing, when they heard, began to say—This man, calleth, Elijah.
And, straightway, one from among them, running, and taking a sponge, and filling it with vinegar and putting it on a reed, was giving him to drink;
but, the rest, said—Stay! let us see whether Elijah is coming, and will save him. [[But, another, taking a spear, pierced his side, and there came forth water and blood]].
And, Jesus, again crying out with a loud voice, dismissed the spirit.
And lo! the veil of the Temple, was rent, from top to bottom, into two; and, the earth, was shaken, and, the rocks, were rent;
and, the tombs, were opened and, many bodies of the holy ones who had fallen asleep, arose,—
and, coming forth out of the tombs after his arising, entered into, the holy city, and plainly appeared unto many.
Now, the centurion, and those with him watching Jesus, seeing the earthquake and the things coming to pass, were violently affrighted, saying—Truly, God’s Son, was, he!
Now there were there, many women, from afar, beholding, who indeed had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him;
among whom was Mary the Magdalene, also Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
And, when, evening, arrived, there came a rich man from Arimathaea, whose name was Joseph, who also, himself, had been discipled unto Jesus.
The same, going unto Pilate, claimed the body of Jesus. Then, Pilate commanded it to be given up.
And Joseph, taking the body, wrapped it up in a clean Indian-cloth,
and laid it in his new tomb, which he had hewn in the rock, and, rolling near a large stone unto the door of the tomb, departed.
Now there were there, Mary the Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre.
And, on the morrow, which is after the preparation, the High-priests and the Pharisee were gathered together unto Pilate,
saying—Sir! we have been put in mind that, that deceiver, said, while yet living,—After three days, will I, arise.
Command, therefore, that the sepulchre be made secure until the third day,—lest once the disciples should come and steal him, and say unto the people, He hath arisen from the dead! and, the last deception, shall be, worse than the first.
Pilate saith unto them—Ye have a guard: Go your way, secure it for yourselves, as ye know how.
And, they, went and secured for themselves the sepulchre, sealing the stone, with the guard.