And Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked. And behold, Esau came, and four hundred men with him. And he divided the children to Leah, and to Rachel, and to the two handmaids.
And he put the slave women and their children first, and Leah and her children afterward, and Rachel and Joseph last.
And he passed over in front of them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.
And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell upon his neck and kissed him. And they wept.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the boys, and said, Who are these with you? And he said, The boys which God has favored your servant.
Then the slave women came near, they and their boys, and they bowed themselves.
And Leah also, and her children, came near and bowed themselves. And afterward Joseph and Rachel came near and bowed.
He asked, Whose is all this camp which I met? And he said, To find grace in the sight of my lord.
And Esau said, I have enough, my brother. Keep what you have yourself.
And Jacob said, No, please, if now I have found grace in your sight, then receive my present at my hand. For therefore have I seen your face, as though I had seen the face of God, and you were pleased with me.
Please take my blessing that is brought to you, because God has dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him, and he accepted.
And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before you.
And he said to him, My lord knows that the boys are tender, and the flocks and herds with me are suckling. And if the men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.
Please let my lord pass over before his servant, and I will lead on softly, according as the flocks that go before me, and the boys, are able to endure, until I come to my lord to Seir.
And Esau said, Let me now leave with you some of the people with me. And he said, Why this? Let me find grace in the sight of my lord.
And Esau returned that day on his way to Seir.
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth and built himself a house, and made booths for his cattle. Therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.
And Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padan-aram. And he pitched his tent in front of the city.
And he bought a piece of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the sons of Hamor, Shechem's father, for a hundred pieces of silver.
And he erected there an altar, and called it El, the God of Israel.