Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,
to Timothy, my dearly beloved child. Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I remember you in my prayers night and day,
greatly desiring to see you, being mindful of your tears, so that I may be filled with joy,
taking recollection of the unfeigned faith that is in you, which first dwelt in your grandmother Lois, and in your mother Eunice. And I am persuaded that it is in you also.
Therefore I remind you to inflame anew the gift of God, which is in you by the putting on of my hands.
For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind.
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me His prisoner. But be partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God,
who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to His own purpose and grace which was given us in Christ Jesus before the eternal times.
But it is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has made death of no effect, bringing life and immortality to light through the gospel;
to which I am appointed a preacher and an apostle and a teacher of the nations.
For this cause I also suffer these things; but I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed to Him against that Day.
Hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
Guard the good Deposit given through the Holy Spirit indwelling in us.
This you know, that all those in Asia have turned away from me, of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
May the Lord give mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain.
But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me.
May the Lord grant to him that he may find mercy from the Lord in that Day. And in what things he ministered to me at Ephesus, you know very well.