In the meantime, when there had gathered together an innumerable crowd of people, so as to trample on one another, He began to say to His disciples first, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
For there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, nor anything hidden that shall not be known.
Therefore whatever you have spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light. And that which you have spoken in the ear in secret rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops.
And I say to you, My friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
But I will warn you of whom you shall fear: Fear Him who, after He has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yea, I say to you, fear Him.
Are not five sparrows sold for two assaria? And not one of them is forgotten before God.
But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Therefore do not fear, you are of more value than many sparrows.
Also I say to you, Whoever shall confess Me before men, the Son of man also shall confess him before the angels of God.
But he who denies Me before men shall be denied before the angels of God.
And whoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him. But to him who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven.
And when they bring you into the synagogues, and to rulers and authorities, take no thought as to how or what thing you shall answer, or what you shall say.
For the Holy Spirit shall teach you in the same hour what you ought to say.
And one of the company said to Him, Master, speak to my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
And He said to him, Man, who made Me a judge or a divider over you?
And He said to them, Watch and keep yourselves from covetousness. For a man's life is not in the abundance of the things which he possesses.
And He spoke a parable to them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully.
And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room in which to store my fruits?
And he said, I will do this. I will pull down my barns and build bigger ones, and I will store all my fruits and my goods there.
And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat drink and be merry.
But God said to him, Fool! This night your soul shall be required of you, then whose shall be those things which you have prepared?
So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.
And He said to His disciples, Therefore I say to you, Be not anxious as to your life, what you shall eat; nor for the body, what you shall put on.
Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing.
Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap, having neither storehouse nor barn, and God feeds them. How much more are you better than the birds?
And which of you by being anxious can add one cubit to his stature?
If then you are not able to do even the least, why are you anxious about the rest?
Consider the lilies, how they grow; they do not toil, they do not spin. And yet I say to you that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
If then God so clothes the grass (which today is in the field, and tomorrow is cast into the oven) how much more will He clothe you, O little-faiths?
And do not seek what you shall eat, nor what you shall drink, and stop being in anxiety.
For all these things the nations of the world seek after, and your Father knows that you have need of these things.
But rather seek the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added to you.
Do not fear, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
Sell what you have and give alms. Make for yourselves purses which do not become old, an unfailing treasure in Heaven, where no thief comes nor moth corrupts.
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning.
And you yourselves be like men who wait for their lord, whenever he shall return from the wedding, so that when he comes and knocks, they may open to him immediately.
Blessed are those servants whom the lord will find watching when he comes. Truly I say to you that he shall gird himself and make them recline; and coming up he will serve them.
And if he comes in the second watch, or comes in the third watch, and find it so, blessed are those servants.
And know this, that if the master of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched and would not have allowed his house to be dug through.
Therefore be ready also, for the Son of man comes at an hour when you think not.
And Peter said to Him, Lord, do You speak this parable to us or also to all?
And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward whom his lord shall set over his houseservants, to give them their portion of food in season?
Blessed is that servant when his lord comes and finds him so doing.
Truly I say to you that he will set him over all his possessions.
But if that servant says in his heart, My lord delays his coming, and shall begin to beat the male servants and women servants, and to eat and drink and to be drunk,
the lord of that servant will come in a day when he does not expect, and at an hour when he does not know. And he will cut him apart, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers.
And that servant who knew his lord's will and did not prepare, nor did according to His will, shall be beaten with many stripes.
But he not knowing, and doing things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For to whomever much is given, of him much shall be required. And to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more.
I have come to send fire on the earth. And what will I do if it is already kindled?
But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how I am pressed down until it is accomplished!
Do you suppose that I have come to give peace on earth? I tell you, no, but rather division.
For from now on, there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And He also said to the crowd, When you see a cloud rise out of the west, immediately you say, There is a shower coming. And so it is.
And when you see the south wind blow, you say, There will be heat; and it occurs.
Hypocrites! You know to discern the face of the heaven and the earth, but how is it that you do not discern this time?
And why, even of yourselves, do you not judge what is right?
For as you go with your adversary to the judge, give pains in the way to be set free from him, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and the officer cast you into the prison.
I tell you, you shall not depart from there until you have paid the very last lepton.