And the messenger of Yahweh came up from Gilgal, unto Bochim. And he said—I led you up out of Egypt, and brought you into the land, which I had sworn unto your fathers, And I said, I will not break my covenant with you, to times age-abiding;
But, ye, must not solemnise a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, Their altars, must ye tear down,—But ye have not hearkened unto my voice, what is this ye have done?
Wherefore also I said, I will not drive them out from before you,—but they shall be your adversaries, and, their gods, shall become unto you a snare.
And it came to pass, when the messenger of Yahweh had spoken these words unto all the sons of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So they called the name of that place, Bochim, and offered sacrifice there, unto Yahweh.
Now, when Joshua had let the people go, the sons of Israel went their way, every man to his inheritance, to take possession of the land.
And the people served Yahweh all the days of Joshua,—and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of Yahweh which he had wrought for Israel.
So then Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Yahweh, died,—being a hundred and ten years old.
And they buried him within the bounds of his inheritance, in Timnath-heres, in the hill country of Ephraim,—on the north of Mount Gaash.
All that generation also, were gathered unto their fathers,—and there arose another generation, after them, who had not known Yahweh, nor even the work which he had wrought for Israel.
So the sons of Israel did the thing that was wicked in the sight of Yahweh,—and served the Baals;
and forsook Yahweh, the God of their fathers, who brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, from among the gods of the peoples who were round about them, and bowed themselves down unto them,—and angered Yahweh.
Yea, they forsook Yahweh,—and did service unto the Baal and unto Ashtaroth.
Then kindled the anger of Yahweh upon Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers, who plundered them,—and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, so that they could no longer stand before their enemies.
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of Yahweh was found to be against them for misfortune, as spake Yahweh, and as sware Yahweh unto them,—and they were distressed exceedingly.
And, though Yahweh raised up judges,—who saved them out of the hand of them that plundered them,
yet, even unto their judges, did thy not hearken, for they went unchastely astray after other gods, and bowed themselves down to them,—they turned aside speedily out of the way wherein their fathers who hearkened unto the commandments of Yahweh, walked, they did not so.
And, when Yahweh raised them up judges, then was Yahweh with the judges, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies, all the days of the judge,—for Yahweh was grieved at their outcry, because of them who oppressed them, and ill-treated them.
But, when the judge was dead, they again broke faith more than their fathers, by going their way after other gods, by serving them, and bowing themselves down to them,—they ceased not from their doings nor from their stubborn way.
So then the anger of Yahweh kindled upon Israel, and he said—Forasmuch as this nation have transgressed my covenant, which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice,
I also, will no further dispossess a man from before them,—from among the nations which Joshua left remaining, when he died;
that I may, by them, put Israel to the proof,—whether they are going to be observant of the way of Yahweh, to walk therein as their fathers observed it, or not.
Thus then Yahweh left these nations, not dispossessing them speedily,—neither had he delivered them into the hand of Joshua