You shall not sacrifice to Jehovah your God an ox or sheep in which there is a blemish, any evil thing, for it is a hateful thing to Jehovah your God.
When there is found among you, in one of your gates which Jehovah your God is giving to you, a man or woman who does that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah your God, in transgressing His covenant,
and has gone and served other gods, and worshiped them; or the sun, or the moon, or of the host of the heavens, which I have not commanded;
and it has been revealed to you, and you have heard, and searching have searched; and, behold, it is true; and the thing is confirmed, that this hateful thing has been done in Israel,
Then you shall bring out to your gates that man or that woman who has done this evil thing, the man or the woman; and you shall stone them with stones, and they shall die.
At the mouth of two witnesses or three witnesses shall he that is to die be put to death. He shall not be put to death at the mouth of one witness.
The hand of the witnesses shall be first on him, to put him to death; and the hand of all the people last. And you shall put away the evil from among you.
If a matter is too hard for you in judgment, between blood and blood, between cause and cause, or between stroke and stroke, matters of strife within your gates, then you shall rise and go up to the place which Jehovah your God shall choose.
And you shall come in to the priest, of the Levites, and to the judge who is in those days, and shall inquire. And they shall declare the sentence of judgment to you.
And you shall do according to the word which they declare to you from that place which Jehovah shall choose. And you shall be careful to do according to all that they direct you.
You shall do according to the mouth of the law which they direct you, and according to the judgment which they deliver to you. You shall not turn aside from the word which they declare to you, right or left.
And the man who acts with pride so as not to listen to the priest who is standing to serve Jehovah your God there, or to the judge, even that man shall die; and you shall put away evil from Israel.
And all the people shall hear, and fear, and shall not presume any more.
When you come into the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you, and have possessed it, and settled in it; and you shall say, Let me set a king over me like all the nations around me,
then you shall certainly set a king over you. You may not set an alien over you, one who is not your brother.
Only, he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to turn back to Egypt so as to multiply horses, since Jehovah has said to you, You shall not again return in this way any more.
And he shall not multiply wives to himself, and his heart shall not turn aside. And he shall not greatly multiply to himself silver and gold.
And it shall be, when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself a copy of this law in a book, from before the priests, the Levites.
And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear Jehovah your God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them;
so that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he may not turn aside from the commandment, to the right or to the left; so that he may prolong his days over his kingdom, he and his sons in the midst of Israel.