AND Jesus departing was going his way from the temple: and his disciples came to him, to point out to his observation the buildings of the temple.
But Jesus said unto them, Do you not see all these things? I tell you of a certainty, There shall not be left here one stone upon another, which shall not be utterly thrown down.
Then as he was sitting upon the mount of Olives, his disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall there things be? and what is the sign of thy coming, and of the consummation of the age?
And Jesus answering said unto them, Beware that no man deceive you.
For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Messiah; and shall deceive multitudes.
And ye shall hear of wars, and rumours of wars: see that ye be not terrified: for these things must first be, but the end is not yet.
For nation shall be roused up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in diverse places.
Now all these things are the beginning of the travailing pangs.
Then shall they deliver you up to affliction, and shall kill you: and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name’s sake.
And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and hate one another.
And many false prophets shall arise, and shall deceive many.
And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many will grow cool.
But he that endureth to the end, that man will be saved.
And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached through the whole world for a testimony to all the nations: and then shall come the final close.
When therefore ye see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by the prophet Daniel, erected in the holy place, (let him that readeth, mark this,)
then let such as are in Judea flee into the mountains.
Let not him who is upon the roof go down to take any thing out of his house.
And he that is in the field, let him not turn back to take his garment.
But wo to those who are with child, and have an infant at their breasts in those days!
And pray that your flight be not in winter, nor on the sabbath.
For then the tribulation will be great, such as never was from the beginning of the world, and never more shall be.
And except those days were shortened, there would be no flesh saved: but for the elect’s sake these days shall be shortened.
Then if any man say unto you, Lo! here is the Messiah, or there; believe it not:
for false Messiahs and false prophets shall arise, and give out great signs and wonders; so as to deceive, if it were possible, even the elect.
Behold, I have forewarned you.
Therefore if they say to you, He is in the wilderness; go not out: lo! he is in the secret closets; believe it not.
For as the lightning cometh out from the east, and flashes to the west; so shall be the coming of the Son of man.
For wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together.
Then, immediately after the tribulation of those days, shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken.
And then shall the sign of the Son of man appear in the heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth lament bitterly, and they shall see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
And he shall send forth his angels with a trumpet, and a great shout, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the extremities of the heavens to the extremities of the same.
Learn then a parable from the fig-tree; when its branch is now tender, and the leaves shoot forth, ye know that summer is nigh:
just so ye, when ye behold these things, know that it is near, even at the gates.
Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away until all these things shall be done.
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall in no wise pass away.
But of that day and hour no man knoweth, not even the angels of heaven, but my Father alone.
But as the days of Noah were, so also shall the coming of the Son of man be.
For as they were in the days preceding the deluge, eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark,
and they knew it not till the deluge came, and swept them all away; such also shall the coming of the Son of man be.
Then two shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other dismissed.
Two women grinding at the mill; the one taken, the other dismissed.
Watch therefore: for ye know not at what hour your Master cometh.
And this observe, that if the master of the family had known in which watch of the night the thief would have come, he would have watched, and not have suffered him to break into his house.
Therefore be ye also prepared: for in an hour that ye think not, the Son of man cometh.
Who then is the faithful and provident servant, whom his Lord hath appointed over his household, to give them meat in the proper time?
Blessed is that servant whom his Lord when he cometh shall find thus occupied.
Verily I say unto you, that he will place him over all his substance.
But if that wicked servant say in his heart, My master will be a long while ere he comes;
and shall begin to beat his fellow-servants, and to eat and drink with the drunken;
the master of that servant will come in a day that he doth not expect him, and at an hour which he knoweth not.
And will cut him asunder, and give him his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.