Pursue love, and be zealous for the spiritual things, but more that ye may prophesy.
For he who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men, but to God, for no man hears, but in spirit he speaks mysteries.
But he who prophesies speaks to men edification and encouragement and comfort.
He who speaks in a tongue builds himself up, but he who prophesies builds up the congregation.
Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but more that ye may prophesy. For greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, so that the congregation may receive edification.
But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I benefit you, unless I would speak to you either in a revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophesying, or in doctrine?
Likewise lifeless things that give a sound, whether flute or harp, if they give no distinction in the sounds, how will it be known what is being piped or harped?
For also if a trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for battle?
So also ye, unless ye give understandable speech by the tongue, how will that which is spoken be known? For ye will be talking into the air.
Since there are perhaps, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is without significance.
If therefore I know not the force of the voice, I will be a foreigner to him who speaks, and he who speaks will be a foreigner to me.
So also ye, since ye are zealots of spirits, seek so that ye may excel for the edification of the church.
Therefore let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
For if I pray in a tongue my spirit prays, but my intellect is unfruitful.
What is it therefore? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the intellect also. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the intellect also.
Otherwise if thou would bless with the spirit, how will the man who fills the place of the unlearned, say the Truly at thy thanksgiving, since he knows not what thou say?
For thou indeed express thanks well, but the other man is not edified.
I thank my God that I speak in tongues more than all of you.
Yet in an assembly I would rather speak five words with my intellect, so that I might also make others understand, than countless words in a tongue.
Brothers, become not children in your thoughts. Instead be childlike in wickedness, but in your thoughts become mature.
In the law it is written, In other tongues and in other lips I will speak to this people, and not even so will they hear me, says the Lord.
Therefore tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to the unbelieving. But prophesying is not to the unbelieving, but to those who believe.
If therefore the whole congregation comes together in the same place, and all speak in tongues, and unlearned or unbelieving men come in, will they not say that ye are mad?
But if all prophesy, and some unbelieving or unlearned man comes in, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all.
And so the secrets of his heart are made manifest. And so having fallen down on his face he will worship God, declaring that God is really among you.
What is it therefore, brothers? When ye come together, each of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification.
If any man speaks in a tongue, be according to two, or at the most three, and in succession. And let one interpret.
But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silence in an assembly, and let him speak to himself and to God.
And let two or three prophets speak, and let the other men pass judgment.
But if it should be revealed to another man who is seated, let the first be silent.
For ye can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn, and all may be encouraged.
And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets,
for God is not a God of confusion, but of peace.
As in all the churches of the sanctified, let the women keep silent in the churches. For it is not permitted for them to speak, but to be subordinate, as the law also says.
And if they want to learn anything, let them question their own husbands at home, for it is an ugly thing for women to speak in an assembly.
Or did the word of God come forth from you? Or did it come to you only?
If any man presumes to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge what I write to you, that they are commandments of the Lord.
But if any man is ignorant, let him be ignorant.
Therefore brothers, be zealous for prophesying, and do not forbid to speak in tongues.
Let all things be done decently and in order.