But, a certain man in Caesarea, by name Cornelius, a centurion of the band called Italian,—
Devout, and fearing God with all his house, doing many alms unto the people, and supplicating God continually,
Saw, in a vision, manifestly, as if about the ninth hour of the day, a messenger of God, coming in unto him, and saying unto him—Cornelius!
And he, looking steadfastly at him, and becoming full of fear, said—What is it, Lord? And he said unto him—Thy prayers and thine alms, have gone up for a memorial before God.
Now, therefore, send men unto Joppa, and fetch one Simon who is surnamed Peter,—
The same is a guest with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea.
And, when the messenger who had been speaking with him had departed, calling two of the domestics, and a devout soldier of them that constantly attended him,
And relating everything unto them, he sent them off unto Joppa.
Now, on the morrow, as those men were journeying, and, unto the city, drawing near, Peter went up on the housetop to pray, about the sixth hour;
But he became hungry, and wished to eat,—and, while they were making ready, there came upon him a trance;
And he beholdeth heaven opened, and, corning down, a kind of vessel, like a large linen cloth, by its four corners, being let down upon the earth,
In which were all the quadrupeds and creeping things of earth and birds of heaven.
And there came a voice unto him—Rise, Peter! slay and eat.
But Peter said—By no means, Lord! because, at no time, have I eaten anything common or unclean.
And a voice [came] again, a second time, unto him—What things, God, hath cleansed, be not, thou, making common.
Now, this, took place thrice; and, straightway, was the vessel taken up into heaven.
And, as within himself Peter was doubting what the vision which he had seen might mean, lo! the men who had been sent by Cornelius, having sought out the house of Simon, stood at the gate,
And, calling, enquired whether, Simon who was surnamed Peter, was there being entertained.
And, as Peter was pondering over the vision, the Spirit said—Lo! two men, seeking thee.
But rise, go down, and be journeying with them, nothing, doubting; because, I, have sent them.
And Peter, going down unto the men, said—Lo! I, am he whom ye are seeking: What is the cause, for which ye are come?
And they said—Cornelius, a centurion, a man righteous and fearing God, well-attested by the whole nation of the Jews, hath been divinely instructed by a holy messenger to send for thee unto his house, and to hear words from thee.
Inviting them in, therefore, he entertained them; but, on the morrow, he rose up and went forth with them, and certain of the brethren who were from Joppa went with him;
And, on the morrow, he entered into Caesarea. And, Cornelius, was expecting them, having called together his kinsfolk and intimate friends.
And, when it came about that Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and, falling at his feet, did homage.
But, Peter, raised him up, saying—Arise! I also myself, am, a man.
And, conversing with him, he went in, and findeth many come together;
And said unto the—Ye, well know, how unlawful it is, for, a Jew, to be joining himself or coming in unto one of another race. And yet, unto me, hath God pointed out that I should be calling no man, common or unclean.
Wherefore, even without gainsaying, came I when sent for. I ask, therefore, for what reason ye sent for me.
And Cornelius said—Four days ago, counting unto this very hour, I was keeping, the ninth hour, as one of prayer, in my house. And lo! a man stood before me, in bright clothing,
And saith—Cornelius! thy prayer hath been heard, and, thine alms, have been remembered before God.
Send, therefore, unto Joppa, and fetch Simon, who is surnamed Peter. The same is being entertained in the house of one Simon a tanner, by the sea.
Immediately, therefore, I sent unto thee: Thou, also hast, well, done in coming. Now, therefore, all we, before God are present, to hear all things that have been enjoined upon thee by the Lord.
And Peter, opening his mouth, said—Of a truth, I find that God is no respecter of persons;
But, in every nation, he that feareth him and worketh righteousness, is acceptable unto him.
As touching the word he hath sent unto the sons of Israel, announcing the glad tidings of peace through Jesus Christ—the same, is Lord, of all,
Ye yourselves, know what hath come to pass throughout the whole of Judaea, beginning from Galilee, after the immersion which John proclaimed, respecting Jesus who was of Nazareth:—
How God anointed him with Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed by the adversary, because, God, was with him.
We also, are witnesses of all things which he did, both in the country of the Jews and Jerusalem; whom they even slew by suspending upon a tree;—
The same, God raised up on the third day, and gave him to become, manifest,
Not unto all the people, but unto witnesses who had been fore-appointed by God, unto us, who, indeed, did eat and drink with him after his rising from among the dead.
And he charged us to proclaim unto the people, and bear full witness, that—This, is he that hath been marked out by God to be judge of living and dead.
Unto the same, do all the prophets bear witness, That, remission of sins, is to be received through his name, by every one that believeth on him.
While Peter was yet speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all who were hearing the word.
And the faithful, of the circumcision, who had come with Peter, were amazed,—in that, upon the nations also, the free-gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out;
For they heard them speaking with tongues, and magnifying God. Then answered Peter—
Surely then, the water, can no man forbid, that these should not be immersed,—seeing that, the Holy Spirit, they have received, as well as we.
And he commanded them in the name of Jesus Christ to be immersed. Then, requested they him, to abide still some days.