And these were the ones who came to David to Ziklag, while banned from the face of Saul the son of Kish. And they were among the mighty men, helpers of the war,
right and left-handed, armed with bows, with stones, and with arrows, with the bow from the brothers of Saul, of Benjamin
The chief was Ahiezer, and Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite, and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth, and Berachah, and Jehu of Anathoth
and Ismaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty, and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad the Gederathite,
Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite,
Elkanah, and Jesiah, and Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korhites,
and Joelah, and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.
And of the Gadites mighty men separated themselves to David into the stronghold in the wilderness, men of the army for battle, setting in order shield and buckler, and their faces were the faces of a lion, and as gazelles on the heights for swiftness:
Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,
Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,
Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,
Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,
Jeremiah the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh.
These were the sons of Gad, captains of the army. One of the least was over a hundred, and the greatest over a thousand.
These were they who went over Jordan in the first month, when it had overflowed all its banks. And they put all those of the valleys to flight, toward the east and toward the west.
And some of the sons of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David.
And David went out to meet them, and answered and said to them, If you have come to me in peace, to help me, my heart shall be knit to you. But if you come to betray me to my enemies, since there is no wrong in my hands, let the God of our fathers look on it and rebuke it.
And the Spirit came on Amasai, chief of the Thirty. And he said, We are yours, David, and on your side, son of Jesse. Peace, peace be on you, and peace on your helpers. For your God has helped you. And David received them and made them captains of the band.
And some from Manasseh fell to David when he came with the Philistines to battle against Saul. (But they did not help them. For the lords of the Philistines sent him away on advice, saying, He will fall to his master Saul with our heads.)
As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him these from Manasseh, Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai, captains of the thousands who were from Manasseh.
And they helped David against the band, for they were all mighty men of power, and were commanders in the army.
For at that time they came to David day by day to help him, until it was a great army, like an army of God.
And these were the numbers of the chiefs of those armed for war who came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of the Lord.
The sons of Judah bearing shield and spear were six thousand and eight hundred, armed for war.
From the sons of Simeon the mighty men of power for the war, seven thousand and one hundred.
From the sons of Levi were four thousand and six hundred.
And Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, and with him were three thousand and seven hundred.
And Zadok, a young man mighty in power, and of his fathers' house were twenty-two captains.
And the sons of Benjamin, the kindred of Saul were three thousand. And before, the most of them had kept their allegiance to the house of Saul.
And of the sons of Ephraim were twenty thousand and eight hundred, mighty men of valor, famous throughout the house of their fathers.
And from the half tribe of Manasseh were eighteen thousand, who were chosen by name to come and make David king.
And from the sons of Issachar, men who had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, the heads of them were two hundred. And all their brothers were at their command.
From Zebulun, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, with all the weapons of war, fifty thousand who could keep rank. They were not of a double heart.
And from Naphtali, a thousand captains; and with them with shield and spear were thirty-seven thousand.
And of the Danites, expert in war, were twenty-eight thousand, six hundred.
And of Asher, going out to the army to set in order the battle were forty thousand.
And on the other side of Jordan, from the Reubenites, and of the Gadites, and from the half tribe of Manasseh, with all of the weapons of war for battle were a hundred and twenty thousand.
All these were men of war, keeping rank, they came with a perfect heart to Hebron, to make David king over Israel. And also all the rest of Israel was of one heart to make David king.
And they were with David three days, eating and drinking. For their brothers had prepared food for them.
And also those who were near them, even to Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought bread on asses, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen. And they brought food, meal, cakes of figs and bunches of raisins, and wine and oil, and oxen and sheep abundantly. For there was joy in Israel.