And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing, that he shall be brought to the priest.
And the priest shall go out to the outside of the camp. And the priest shall look; and, behold, if the plague of leprosy is healed in the leper,
then the priest shall command, and he shall take for him who is to be cleansed two clean living birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop.
And the priest shall command, and he shall kill the one bird on an earthen vessel, over running water;
he shall take the living bird, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the slain bird, over the running water.
And he shall sprinkle on him who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and shall pronounce him clean. And he shall send out the living bird into the open field.
And he who is to be cleansed shall wash his garments, and shall shave all his hair, and shall bathe with water, and shall be clean. And afterwards he shall come into the camp, and shall live on the outside of his tent seven days.
And it shall be on the seventh day, he shall shave all his hair, his head, and his beard, and his eyebrows; he shall even shave all his hair. And he shall wash his garments, and shall bathe his flesh with water, and shall be clean.
And on the eighth day he shall take two male lambs, perfect ones, and one ewe lamb, daughter of a year, a perfect one, and three tenth parts of flour for a food offering, mixed with oil, and one log of oil.
And the priest who is cleansing, and the man who is to be cleansed, shall stand with them before Jehovah, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the priest shall take the one male lamb and shall bring it near for a guilt offering, and the log of oil, and shall wave them as a wave offering before Jehovah.
And he shall kill the lamb in the place where he killed the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the holy place. For like the sin offering, the guilt offering belongs to the priest; it is most holy.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the guilt offering; and the priest shall put on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot.
And the priest shall take of the log of oil and shall pour on the left palm of the priest.
And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil on his left palm and shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times before Jehovah.
And of the rest of the oil on his palm, the priest shall put on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot, on the blood of the guilt offering;
and the rest of the oil on the palm of the priest, he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed. And the priest shall make atonement for him before Jehovah.
And the priest shall make a sin offering, and shall atone for him who is to be cleansed from his uncleanness. And afterwards he shall slaughter the burnt offering;
and the priest shall offer the burnt offering, and the food offering, on the altar; and the priest shall make atonement for him; and he shall be clean.
And if he is poor, and his hand is not able to reach these things , then he shall take one lamb as a guilt offering, for a wave offering, to atone for himself, and one tenth part of flour mixed with oil for a food offering, and a log of oil,
and two turtledoves, or two young doves, which his hand can reach; and one shall be a sin offering, and the other a burnt offering.
And he shall bring them in to the priest on the eighth day for his cleansing, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, before Jehovah.
And the priest shall take the lamb of the guilt offering, and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them as a wave offering before Jehovah;
and he shall kill the lamb of the guilt offering; and the priest shall take of the blood of the guilt offering, and he shall put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot.
And the priest shall pour the oil on the left palm of the priest;
and the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger of the oil on his palm, seven times before Jehovah.
And the priest shall put of the oil on his palm on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of the right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the guilt offering.
And the rest of the oil on the priest's palm he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed, to atone for him, before Jehovah.
And he shall offer one of the turtledoves, or of the young doves, from that which he is able to reach;
that which his hand has reached out to, the one a sin offering, and the other a burnt offering, besides the food offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him who is to be cleansed before Jehovah.
This is the law of him in whom is a plague of leprosy whose hand could not reach to his cleansing.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
When you come into the land of Canaan, which I am giving to you for a possession, and I have put a plague of leprosy in the house in the land of your possession;
Then if he who owns the house shall come in and declare to the priest, saying, I have seen a plague in the house.
And the priest shall command, and they shall turn out the house before the priest comes in to see the plague that all in the house may not be unclean; and afterwards the priest shall come in to see the house.
And he shall look upon the plague; and, behold, if the plague is in the walls of the house with depressions greenish or reddish, and the appearance of it is lower than the wall;
Then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the house, and shut up the house seven days.
And the priest shall come again the seventh day, and shall look; and, behold, if the plague has spread in the walls of the house;
Then the priest shall command that they take out the stones in which the plague is , and throw them into an unclean place outside the city.
And he shall cause the house to be scraped inside all around, and they shall pour out the dust which they have scraped off at the outside of the city, at an unclean place.
And they shall take other stones and bring them in to the place of the stones; and he shall take other clay and shall plaster the house.
And if the plague returns and breaks out in the house after he has taken away the stones, and after he has scraped the house, and after it has been plastered,
then the priest shall come in and look; and, behold, if the plague has spread in the house, it is a corroding leprosy in the house; it is unclean.
And he shall break down the house; its stones, and its wood, and all the clay of the house; and he shall carry out to the outside of the city, to an unclean place.
And he who goes into the house all the days he has shut it up shall be unclean until the evening.
And he who lies in the house shall wash his clothes and he who eats in the house shall wash his clothes.
And if the priest shall come in and carefully look, and, behold, the plague has not spread in the house after the house has been plastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean; for the plague has been healed.
And he shall take two birds for the cleansing of the house, and cedar wood, and scarlet dye , and hyssop;
and he shall kill the one bird on an earthen vessel, over running water;
and he shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and shall dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and shall sprinkle on the house seven times.
And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, and with the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the scarlet dye ;
and he shall send away the living bird to the outside of the city, to the open field, and shall atone for the house; and it shall be clean.
This is the law for every plague of the leprosy and for scabs;
and for leprosy of a garment, and of a house,
and for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot;
to teach when it is unclean and when it is clean; this is the law of leprosy.