And He called His twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases.
And He sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
And He said to them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staffs, nor a bag, nor bread, nor money, nor each to have two tunics.
And whatever house you enter into, abide there and depart from there.
And whoever will not receive you, when you go out of that city shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
And they departed and went through the towns, proclaiming the gospel and healing everywhere.
And Herod the tetrarch heard of all the things happening by Him. And he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had risen from the dead;
and by some, that Elijah had appeared; and by others, that one of the old prophets had risen again.
And Herod said, John I have beheaded, but who is this of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see Him.
And returning, the apostles told Him all that they had done. And He took them and went aside privately into a deserted place of a city called Bethsaida.
But knowing this, the crowds followed Him. And He received them and spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and He healed those who had need of healing.
But the day began to wear away, and coming up the Twelve said to Him, Send the crowd away so that they may go into the villages and farms all around, and lodge, and get food. For we are here in a deserted place.
But He said to them, You give them something to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go and buy food for all these people.
(For they were about five thousand men.) And He said to His disciples, Make them recline by fifties in a company.
And they did so, and made them all recline.
And He took the five loaves and the two fish. And looking up to Heaven, He blessed them and broke, and He gave to the disciples to set before the crowd.
And they ate and were all filled. And there was taken up twelve hand baskets full of fragments of that left over to them.
And it happened as He was alone praying, the disciples were with Him. And He asked them, saying, Whom do the crowds say that I am?
Answering, they said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elijah, and others say that one of the old prophets has risen again.
He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Answering, Peter said, The Christ of God.
And He strictly charged them and commanded to tell no one this,
saying, The Son of man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day.
And He said to all, If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow Me.
For whoever will save his life shall lose it, but whoever will lose his life for My sake, he shall save it.
For what is a man profited if he gains the whole world and loses himself, or is cast away?
For whoever shall be ashamed of Me and of My words, the Son of man shall be ashamed of him when He shall come in His own and in His Father's glory, and that of the holy angels.
But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who shall not taste of death until they see the kingdom of God.
And about eight days after these sayings, He took Peter and John and James and went up into a mountain to pray.
And as He prayed, the appearance of His countenance was altered, and His clothing was dazzling white.
And behold, two men talked with Him, who were Moses and Elijah,
who appeared in glory and spoke of His exodus, which He was about to accomplish at Jerusalem.
But Peter and those with him were heavy with sleep. But fully awakening, they saw His glory, and the two men who stood with Him.
And in their parting from Him, it happened that Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here. And let us make three tabernacles, one for You and one for Moses and one for Elijah; not knowing what he said.
And as he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them. And they feared as they entered into the cloud.
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is My Son, the Beloved, hear Him.
And when the voice occurred, Jesus was found alone. And they were silent, and told no one in those days anything which they had seen.
And it happened on the next day, they coming down from the mountain, a huge crowd met Him.
And behold, a man cried aloud from the crowd, saying, Teacher, I beseech You, look on my son, for he is my only-born son.
And lo, a spirit takes him, and he suddenly cries out. And it throws him into convulsions, with foaming, and with pain departs from him, bruising him.
And I begged Your disciples to cast him out, and they could not.
And answering, Jesus said, O unbelieving generation, one having been perverted, how long shall I be with you and endure you? Bring your son here.
And as he was still coming, the demon violently convulsed and tore him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the child and delivered him again to his father.
And they were all amazed at the majesty of God. But as all were marveling at all things which Jesus did, He said to His disciples,
Let these words sink down into your ears. For the Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men.
But they did not understand this thing, and it was hidden from them so that they did not perceive it. And they feared to ask Him of this word.
And an argument came in among them, who might be the greater of them.
And seeing the argument of their heart, Jesus took a child and set him beside Him.
And He said to them, Whoever shall receive this child in My name receives Me. And whoever shall receive Me receives Him who sent Me. For he who is least among you all, he shall be great.
And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out demons in Your name. And we prevented him, because he does not follow us.
And Jesus said to him, Do not prevent him, for he who is not against us is for us.
And it happened in the fulfilling of the days of His taking up, He steadfastly set His face to go to Jerusalem.
And He sent messengers before His face. And they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to make ready for Him.
And they did not receive Him, because His face was going toward Jerusalem.
And seeing, His disciples James and John said, Lord, do You desire that we command fire to come down from Heaven and consume them, even as Elijah did?
But He turned and rebuked them and said, You do not know of what spirit you are.
For the Son of man has not come to destroy men's lives, but to save. And they went to another village.
And it happened as they were going in the way, one said to Him, Lord, I will follow You wherever You go.
And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay His head.
And He said to another, Follow Me! But he said, Lord, first allow me to go and bury my father.
Jesus said to him, Let the dead bury their dead, but you go and proclaim the kingdom of God.
And another also said, Lord, I will follow You, but first allow me to take leave of those in my house.
And Jesus said to him, No one, having put his hand to the plow and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.