And so it was, when the word of Samuel had reached all Israel, that Israel went forth to meet the Philistines in battle, and they encamped near Eben-ezer, while, the Philistines, encamped in Aphek.
And the Philistines set themselves in array to meet Israel, and, when the battle spread, then was Israel smitten before the Philistines,—and there were slain of the army in the field about four thousand men.
And, when the people came into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Yahweh smitten us to-day, before the Philistines? Let us fetch unto us, out of Shiloh, the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, that, when it cometh into our midst, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and bare from thence the ark of the covenant of Yahweh of hosts, who inhabiteth the cherubim,—and, there, were the two sons of Eli, with the ark of the covenant of God, namely, Hophni and Phinehas.
And so it was, when the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came into the camp, that all Israel brake out into a loud shout of joy,—so that the earth rang again.
And, when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said—What meaneth the noise of this loud shout of joy in the camp of the Hebrews? And they learned that, the ark of Yahweh, had come into the camp.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said—God hath come into the camp. And they said—Woe to us! for there hath not happened the like of this, heretofore.
Woe to us! Who shall rescue us out of the hand of these majestic gods? These, are the gods, who smote the Egyptians with all manner of smiting in the desert!
Take courage, and quit yourselves like men, ye Philistines, lest ye come into bondage to the Hebrews, as they have been in bondage unto you,—therefore must ye quit yourselves like men, and fight.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man to his home; and the slaughter became exceeding great,—and there fell of Israel—thirty thousand footmen.
And, the ark of God, was taken,—and, the two sons of Eli, were slain, Hophni and Phinehas.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and entered Shiloh on the same day,—with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
And, when he entered, lo! Eli was sitting upon his chair, by the wayside, watching, for his heart was trembling for the ark of God,—and, the man, entered to tell the news in the city, and all the city made outcry.
And, when Eli heard the noise of the outcry, he said—What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And, the man, hasted, and came, and told Eli.
Now, Eli, was ninety-eight years old; and his eyes were fixed, that he could not see.
So the man said unto Eli, I, am he that came in from the army, yea, I, from the army, fled to-day. And he said—What is the thing that hath happened, my son?
And the bearer of tidings answered, and said—Israel hath fled before the Philistines, Moreover also, a great smiting, hath taken place among the people,—Moreover also, thy two sons, are slain, Hophni and Phinehas, And, the ark of God, is taken.
And it came to pass, when he mentioned the ark of God, that he fell from off his seat backwards, at the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died, for, old, was the man, and, heavy,—and, he had judged Israel forty years.
Now, his daughter-in-law, wife of Phinehas, was with child, ready to give birth, and, when she heard the tidings, as to the taking of the ark of God, and the death of her father-in-law, and her husband, she bowed herself and gave birth, for her pains had seized her.
And, about the time of her death, the women that stood by her said: Do not fear, for, to a son, hast thou given birth. But she neither answered nor regarded.
And she called the boy I-chabod [="Where’s the glory?"]! saying, Exiled is the glory from Israel,—In regard to the taking of the ark of God, and to her father-in-law, and to her husband.
So she said—Exiled is the glory from Israel,—For the ark of God hath been taken.