For, behold, in those days and in that time, when I will bring again the exiles of Judah and Jerusalem,
I will also gather all nations and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat. And I will fight with them there for My people and for My inheritance Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations, and divided My land.
And they have cast lots for My people, and have given a boy for a prostitute, and sold a girl for wine, so that they might drink.
Yea, and what have you to do with Me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the borders of Philistia? Will you give Me a reward? And if you reward Me, swiftly and speedily I will turn your reward on your own head,
because you have taken My silver and My gold, and have carried My good treasures into your temples.
You have also sold the sons of Judah and the sons of Jerusalem to the sons of the Greeks, that you might remove them far from their border.
Behold, I am rising them out of the place where you have sold them, and will turn your reward on your own head.
And I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the sons of Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people far off; for the LORD has spoken it.
Proclaim this among the nations: Prepare war, wake up the mighty men, let all the men of war draw near; let them come up.
Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, I am strong.
Gather yourselves and come, all you nations, and gather yourselves together all around; cause Your mighty ones to come down there, O LORD.
Let the nations be awakened and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat; for there I will sit to judge all the nations all around.
Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Come, come down; for the press is full; the vats overflow, for their wickedness is great.
Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision; for the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision!
The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall gather in their light.
The LORD shall also roar out of Zion and utter His voice from Jerusalem. And the heavens and the earth shall shake. But the LORD will be the hope of His people and the strength of the sons of Israel.
So you shall know that I am the LORD your God dwelling in Zion, My holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be a holy thing, and no aliens shall pass through her any more.
And it shall be, in that day the mountains shall drop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the rivers of Judah shall flow with waters; and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the LORD, and shall water the valley of Shittim.
Egypt shall be a ruin, and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness, from violence done to the sons of Judah, whose innocent blood they poured out in their land.
But Judah will dwell forever, and Jerusalem to generation and generation.
And I will cleanse their blood which I did not cleanse; and the LORD is dwelling in Zion.