The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem:
Vanity of vanities, says the Preacher, vanity of vanities! All is vanity!
What is the profit to a man in all his labor which he labors under the sun?
A generation passes away, and another generation comes; but the earth stands forever.
The sun also arises, and the sun goes hurrying to its place; it arises there again .
The wind goes toward the south, and turning around to the north; the wind is going around and around. And the wind returns on its circuits.
All the rivers are going to the sea; yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers are going, there they are returning to go again .
All words are wearisome; a man is not able to utter it. The eye is not satisfied to see, nor is the ear filled from hearing.
That which has been, it is that which shall be. And that which has been done, it is that which will be done. And there is no new thing under the sun.
Is there a thing of which one might say, See this, it is new? It has already been for the ages which were before us.
There is no memory of former things ; yea, nor is there any memory for them of things which will be afterward, with those who will be at the last.
I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.
And I gave my heart to seek and to investigate by wisdom concerning all which is done under the heavens. It is an evil task God has given to the sons of men, to be afflicted by it.
I have seen all the works which are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and striving after wind!
What is crooked cannot be made straight; and that lacking cannot be numbered.
I spoke with my heart, saying, Lo, I have become great and have increased wisdom over all that have been over Jerusalem before me. Yea, my heart has seen much wisdom and knowledge.
And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness, and folly. I know that this also, it is striving after wind.
For in much wisdom is much grief; and he who increases knowledge increases pain.