And instead of a friend become not an enemy;
For an evil name shall inherit shame and reproach:
Even so shall the sinner that has a double tongue.

Exalt not yourself in the counsel of your soul;
That your soul be not torn in pieces as a bull:

You shall eat up your leaves, and destroy your fruits,
And leave yourself as a dry tree.

A wicked soul shall destroy him that has gotten it,
And shall make him  a laughing stock to his enemies.

Sweet words will multiply  a man’s friends;
And a fair-speaking tongue will multiply courtesies.

Let those that are at peace with you be many;
But your counselors one of a thousand.

If you would get you a friend, get him  by proving,
And be not in haste to trust him.

For there is a friend that is so  for his own occasion;
And he will not continue in the day of your affliction.

And there is a friend that turns to enmity;
And he will discover strife to your reproach.

And there is a friend that is a companion at the table;
And he will not continue in the day of your affliction.

And in your prosperity he will be as yourself,
And will be bold over your servants:

If you shall be brought low, he will be against you,
And will hide himself from your face.

Separate yourself from your enemies;
And beware of your friends.

A faithful friend is a strong  defence;
And he that has found him has found a treasure.

There is nothing that can be taken in exchange for a faithful friend;
And his excellency is beyond  price.

A faithful friend is a medicine of life;
And they that fear the Lord shall find him.

He that fears the Lord directs his friendship aright;
For as he is, so is his neighbor also.

My son, gather instruction from your youth up:
And even to hoar hairs you shall find wisdom.

Come to her as one that plows and sows,
And wait for her good fruits;
For your toil shall be little in the tillage of her,
And you shall eat of her fruits right soon.

How exceeding harsh is she to the unlearned!
And he that is without understanding will not abide in her.

As a mighty stone of trial shall she rest upon him;
And he will not delay to cast her from him.

For wisdom is according to her name; and she is not manifest to many.

Give ear, my son, and accept my judgement,
And refuse not my counsel,

And bring your feet into her fetters,
And your neck into her chain.

Put your shoulder under her, and bear her,
And be not grieved with her bonds.

Come to her with all your soul,
And keep her ways with your whole power.

Search, and seek, and she shall be made known to you;
And when you have got hold of her, let her not go.

For at the last you shall find her rest;
And  she shall be turned for you into gladness.

And her fetters shall be to you for a covering of strength,
And her chains for a robe of glory.

For there is a golden ornament upon her,
And her bands are  a riband of blue.

You shall put her on as  a robe of glory,
And shall array you with her as  a crown of rejoicing.

My son, if you will, you shall be instructed;
And if you will yield your soul, you shall be  prudent.

If you love to hear, you shall receive;
And if you incline your ear, you shall be wise.

Stand you in the multitude of the elders;
And whoso is wise, cleave you to him.

Be willing to listen to every godly discourse;
And let not the proverbs of understanding escape you.

If you see a man of understanding, get you betimes to him,
And let your foot wear out the steps of his doors.

Let your mind dwell upon the ordinances of the Lord,
And meditate continually in his commandments:
He shall establish your heart,
And your desire of wisdom shall be given to you.
