And seeing the multitudes, he went up into the mountain; and when he had sat down, his disciples came to him;
and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying:
Blessed are the poor in spirit; for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are they that mourn; for they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek; for they shall inherit the earth.
Blessed are they that hunger and thirst for righteousness; for they shall be filled.
Blessed are the merciful; for they shall receive mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart; for they shall see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called sons of God.
Blessed are they that are persecuted on account of righteousness; for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are you, when they shall reproach you, and persecute you, and say every evil thing against you, falsely, on my account.
Rejoice, and leap for joy; for great is your reward in heaven: for so did they persecute the prophets who were before you.
You are the salt of the earth: but if the salt has become tasteless, by what means shall it become salt again? It is then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trod upon by men.
You are the light of the world: a city that lies upon a mountain can not be hid:
neither do men light a lamp and place it under the measure, but on the lamp-stand, and it gives light to all that are in the house.
In this way let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
Think not that I have come to make the law or the prophets of no effect. I have not come to make them of no effect, but to give them their full efficiency.
For verily I say to you, Till heaven and earth pass away, one yod or one point shall in no way pass from the law till all be fulfilled.
Whoever, therefore, shall make void one of the least of these commandments, and shall teach men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever shall do and teach, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
For I say to you, That, unless your righteousness excel that of the scribes and Pharisees, you can by no means enter into the kingdom of heaven.
You have heard that it was said to the ancients: You shall not kill; and whoever shall kill, shall be liable to the sentence of the judges.
But I say to you, Whoever is angry with his brother without a cause, shall be liable to the sentence of the judges. And whoever shall say to his brother, Worthless fellow, shall be liable to the sentence of the Sanhedrin. But who ever shall say, Impious wretch, shall be in danger of hell-fire.
If, therefore, you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has any thing against you,
leave your gift there before the altar, and go, first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
Come to an agreement with your opponent at law quickly, while you are on the road with him, lest your opponent at law deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be thrown into prison.
Verily, I say to you, You shall by no means come out thence, till you have paid the last farthing.
You have heard that it was said: You shall not commit adultery.
But I say to you, Whoever looks upon a woman to cherish desire for her, has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
If, then, your right eye ensnare you, tear it out, and throw it from you; for it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be thrown into hell.
And if your right hand ensnare you, cut it off, and throw it from you; for it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be thrown into hell.
It has been said: Whoever will put away his wife, let him give her a bill of divorce.
But I say to you, Whoever shall put away his wife, unless on account of lewdness, causes her to commit adultery: and whoever marries her that is divorced, commits adultery.
Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients: You shall not swear falsely, but shall pay to the Lord your vows.
But I say to you, Swear not at all: neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God;
nor by the earth, for it is his footstool; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King:
neither shall you swear by your head, for you can not make one hair white or black.
But let your word be, Yes, yes; No, no; for whatever is more than these is of the Evil One.
You have heard that it was said: An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
But I say to you, Resist not the injurious. But whoever will smite you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.
And to him that will go to law with you, and take away your coat, give your mantle also.
And whoever will compel you to go one mile, go with him two.
Give to him that asks of you; and from him that would borrow of you, turn not away.
You have heard that it was said: You shall love your neighbor, and hate your enemy.
But I say to you, Love your enemies: bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who insult you and persecute you:
that you may be the sons of your Father who is in heaven; for he makes his sun to rise upon the evil and the good, and causes it to rain on the just and on the unjust.
For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the publicans the same?
And if you salute your brethren only, in what do you excel? Do not even the publicans so?
Be you therefore perfect, as your Father who is in heaven is perfect.