And when they that were in the tents heard, they were amazed at the thing that was come to pass.
And trembling and fear fell upon them, and no man dared abide any more in the sight of his neighbor, but rushing out with one accord, they fled into every way of the plain and of the hill country.
And they that had encamped in the hill country round about Bethulia fled away. And then the children of Israel, every one that was a warrior among them, rushed out upon them.
And Ozias sent to Betomasthaim, and Bebai, and Chobai, and Chola, and to every coast of Israel, such as should tell concerning the things that had been accomplished, and that all should rush forth upon their enemies to destroy them.
But wnen the children of Israel heard, they all fell upon them with one accord, and struck them to Chobai: yes, and in like manner also they of Jerusalem and of all the hill country came (for men had told them what things were come to pass in the camp of their enemies), and they that were in Gilead and in Galilee fell upon their flank with a great slaughter, until they were past Damascus and the borders thereof.
But the residue, that lived at Bethulia, fell upon the camp of Asshur, and spoiled them, and were enriched exceedingly.
But the children of Israel returned from the slaughter, and got possession of that which remained; and the villages and the cities, that were in the hill country and in the plain country, took many spoils: for there was an exceeding great store.

And Joakim the high priest, and the senate of the children of Israel that lived in Jerusalem, came to behold the good things which the Lord had showed to Israel, and to see Judith, and to salute her.
But when they came to her, they all blessed her with one accord, and said to her, You are the exaltation of Jerusalem, you are the great glory of Israel, you are the great rejoicing of our race:
you have done all these things by your hand: you have done with Israel the things that are good, and God is pleased therewith: blessed be you with the Almighty Lord for evermore. And all the people said, So be it.
And the people spoiled the camp for the space of thirty days: and they gave to Judith Holofernes’ tent, and all his silver cups, and his beds, and his vessels, and all his furniture: and she took them, and placed them on her mule, and made ready her wagons, and heaped them thereon.

And all the women of Israel ran together to see her; and they blessed her, and made a dance among them for her; and she took  branches in her hand, and gave to the women that were with her.
And they made themselves garlands of olive, she and they that were with her, and she went before all the people in the dance, leading all the women: and all the men of Israel followed in their armor with garlands, and with songs in their mouths.
