And the Pharisees and Sadducees came to tempt him, and asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
But he answered and said to them: When it is evening, you say, Fair weather; for the sky is red.
And in the morning, A storm to-day; for the sky is red and lowering. Hypocrites! you know how to judge of the face of the sky; but you can not judge of the signs of the times.
A wicked and adulterous generation seeks for a sign: and no sign shall be given it but the sign of Jonah the prophet. And he left them and departed.
And his disciples came to the other side, and had forgotten to take bread.
And Jesus said to them: Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying: It is because we took no bread.
And Jesus perceiving it, said to them: O you of little faith! why are you reasoning among yourselves because you took no bread?
Do you not yet understand, nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
How is it that you do not understand, that I did not speak of bread when I commanded you to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
Then they understood that he did not bid them beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
When Jesus came into the regions of Cæsarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying: Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am?
They replied: Some say that thou art John the Immerser; others, Elijah; others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
He said to them: But who say you that I am?
Simon Peter answered and said: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And Jesus answered and said to him: Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah; for flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
And I say to you, That you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church: and the gates of hades shall not prevail against it.
And I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatever you shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatever you shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
Then he charged his disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ.
From that time Jesus began to tell his disciples plainly, that he must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things from the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be put to death, and be raised again the third day.
And Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying: Be it far from thee, Lord: this shall not be to thee.
But he turned and said to Peter: Get behind me, adversary; you are a snare to me: for you are not thinking of the things of God; but of the things of men.
Then Jesus said to his disciples: If any one determines to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever will save his life, shall lose it. But whoever will lose his life for my sake, shall find it.
For what is a man profited, if he gain the whole world, but lose his own life? Or, what will a man give as the ransom of his life?
For the Son of man will come in the glory of his Father, with his angels; and then he will reward every one according to his deeds.
Verily I say to you, There are some standing here that shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.