And I saw on the right of the One sitting on the throne a scroll having been written within and on the back, having been sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a great voice: Who is worthy to open the scroll, and to loosen its seals?
And no one in Heaven was able to open the scroll nor to see it, neither on the earth, nor underneath the earth.
And I wept much, because no one worthy was found to open and to read the scroll, nor to see it.
And one of the elders said to me, Do not weep, Behold, the Lion being of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, overcame so as to open the scroll, and to loose its seven seals.
And I saw, and behold, in the midst of the throne, and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, was a Lamb standing, as having been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, having been sent out into all the earth.
And He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him sitting on the throne.
And when He took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one having harps, and golden bowls full of incenses, which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sing a new song, saying, Worthy are You to receive the scroll, and to open its seals, because You were slain, and by Your blood purchased us to God out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation,
and made us kings and priests to our God; and we shall reign over the earth.
And I saw, and I heard a sound of many angels around the throne, and the living creatures, and the elders, and their number was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands,
saying with a great voice, Worthy is the Lamb having been slain to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
And every creature which is in Heaven, and in the earth, and underneath the earth, and the things that are on the sea, and the things in all of them, I heard saying: To Him sitting on the throne, and to the Lamb be the blessing and the honor and the glory and the might forever and ever.
And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the twenty four elders fell down and worshiped the One living forever and ever.