My God, my God! why hast thou forsaken me? Why so far from mine aid, and from the words of my cry?
O my God! I cry during the day, but thou hearest not; In the night also, but I have no rest.
And yet thou art holy, Dwelling amid the praises of Israel!
Our fathers trusted in thee; They trusted, and thou didst save them.
They called upon thee, and were delivered; They trusted in thee, and were not put to shame.
But I am a worm, and not a man; The reproach of men, and the scorn of the people.
All who see me scoff at me; They open wide the lips; they shake the head.
"He trusted in the LORD, let him help him; Let him deliver him, since he delighted in him!"
Surely thou art he that didst bring me into the world; Thou didst make me lie secure upon my mother’s breast!
Upon thee have I cast myself from my birth; Thou hast been my God from my earliest breath!
Oh, be not far from me, for trouble is near; For there is none to help!
Many bulls surround me; Strong bulls of Bashan close me in on every side.
They open their mouths wide against me, Like a ravening and roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint; My heart is become like wax; It melteth in my bosom.
My strength is dried up like an earthen vessel, And my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; Thou hast brought me to the dust of death!
For dogs have surrounded me; Bands of evil-doers have encompassed me,—Like lions my hands and my feet.
I can count all my bones; They gaze, and feast their eyes upon me.
They divide my garments among them, And for my vesture they cast lots.
But be not thou far from me, O LORD! O my strength! make haste to mine aid!
Deliver my life from the sword; My blood from the power of the dog;
Save me from the lion’s mouth; Shield me from the horns of the buffaloes!
I will proclaim thy name to my brethren; In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.
Praise him, ye worshippers of Jehovah! Extol him, all ye race of Jacob. And fear him, all ye race of Israel!
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the misery of the afflicted. Nor hath he hid his face from him; But when he cried unto him, he heard.
My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation; I will pay my vows before them that fear him!
The afflicted shall eat, and be satisfied; They that seek the LORD shall praise him; Your hearts shall be glad for ever and ever!
All the ends of the earth shall remember, and turn to Jehovah; All the families of the nations shall worship before thee!
For the kingdom is Jehovah’s; He is the governor of the nations.
All the rich of the earth shall eat and worship; Before him shall they also bow, who are going down to the dust, Who cannot keep themselves alive.
The future generation shall serve him; The race which is to come shall hear of Jehovah.
They shall come, and declare his righteousness; His mighty deeds to the people that shall be born.