The word that came unto Jeremiah from Yahweh saying:
Hear ye the words of this covenant,—and speak ye unto the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
and say thou unto them, Thus, saith Yahweh God of Israel,—Accursed, is the man who will not hear the words of this covenant;
which I commanded your fathers—in the day when I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt out of the smelting-pot of iron—saying, Hearken unto my voice and do them, According to all that I may command you,—So shall ye become my people, And, I, will become, your God:
That the oath may be established which I sware to your fathers, To give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as at this day. Then answered I and said, Amen, O Yahweh!
And Yahweh said unto me,—Proclaim thou all, these words, throughout the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem saying,—Hear ye the words of this covenant, and do them,
For I, solemnly took your fathers to witness, in the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt—even until this day, betimes, taking them to witness saying,—Hearken ye unto my voice.
Howbeit they hearkened not neither inclined their ear, but walked severally in the stubbornness of their wicked heart,—so then I brought upon them all the words of this covenant which I commanded them to do, but they did them not.
Yahweh therefore said unto me,—There is found a conspiracy, among the men of Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem:
They have turned back unto the iniquities of their first fathers who refused to hear my words, yea, they themselves, have walked after other gods to serve them,—the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant which I solemnised with their fathers.
Therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh, Behold me! bringing upon them calamity, which they shall not be able to escape,—and though they make outcry unto me, yet will I not hearken unto them.
Then shall the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, go and make outcry unto the gods to whom they have been burning incense,—but they will not at all, save, them in the time of their calamity;
for according to the number of thy cities, have become thy gods O Judah,—and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem, have ye set up altars to the Shameful thing, altars for burning incense to Baal.
Thou, therefore do not pray for this people, Neither lift thou up for them cry or prayer,—For I am not going to hear in the time that they cry unto me concerning their calamity.
Why hath the beloved in mine own house, done an abomination? Shall, vows and holy flesh, take away from thee thy wickednesses, or shalt thou by these, escape?
A green olive-tree, fair with goodly fruit, did Yahweh call thy name,—with the noise of a great tumult, hath he kindled fire upon it, and the branches thereof shall be broken.
But, Yahweh of hosts, who planted thee hath pronounced against thee calamity,—on account of the wickedness of the house of Israel and of the house of Judah which they have wrought for themselves, provoking me to anger by burning incense to Baal.
Now when Yahweh, let me know and I did know, then, didst thou shew me their doings.
But, I, was as a gentle lamb that is to be led to the slaughter,—and I knew not that against me, they had devised devices [saying] —Let us destroy the tree with its fruit Yea let us cut him off out of the land of the living, And, his name, shall be remembered no more!
But, O Yahweh of hosts Who judgest righteously, Who triest affections and intellect,—Let me see thine avenging upon them, For unto thee, have I revealed my cause.
Therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh Concerning the men of Anathoth, who are seeking thy life, saying,—Thou shalt not prophesy in the name of Yahweh, So shalt thou not die by our hand:
Therefore, Thus saith Yahweh of hosts,—Behold me! bringing punishment upon them, The young men, shall die by the sword, Their sons and their daughters, shall die by famine;
And remnant, shall they have none,—For I will bring calamity against the men of Anathoth, in the year of their visitation.