Now it happened that, while Apollo was at Corinth, Paul, after he had journeyed through the upper regions, arrived at Ephesus. And he met with certain disciples.
And he said to them, “After believing, have you received the Holy Spirit?” But they said to him, “We have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.”
Yet truly, he said, “Then with what have you been baptized?” And they said, “With the baptism of John.”
Then Paul said: “John baptized the people with the baptism of repentance, saying that they should believe in the One who is to come after him, that is, in Jesus.”
Upon hearing these things, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when Paul had imposed his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came over them. And they were speaking in tongues and prophesying.
Now the men were about twelve in all.
Then, upon entering the synagogue, he was speaking faithfully for three months, disputing and persuading them about the kingdom of God.
But when certain ones became hardened and would not believe, cursing the Way of the Lord in the presence of the multitude, Paul, withdrawing from them, separated the disciples, disputing daily in a certain school of Tyrannus.
Now this was done throughout two years, so that all who were living in Asia listened to the Word of the Lord, both Jews and Gentiles.
And God was accomplishing powerful and uncommon miracles by the hand of Paul,
so much so that even when small cloths and wrappings were brought from his body to the sick, the illnesses withdrew from them and the wicked spirits departed.
Then, even some of the traveling Jewish exorcists had attempted to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, “I bind you by oath through Jesus, whom Paul preaches.”
And there were certain Jews, the seven sons of Sceva, leaders among the priests, who were acting in this way.
But a wicked spirit responded by saying to them: “Jesus I know, and Paul I know. But who are you?”
And the man, in whom there was a wicked spirit, leaping at them and getting the better of them both, prevailed against them, so that they fled from that house, naked and wounded.
And so, this became known to all the Jews and Gentiles who were living at Ephesus. And a fear fell over them all. And the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
And many believers were arriving, confessing, and announcing their deeds.
Then many of those who had followed odd sects brought together their books, and they burned them in the sight of all. And after determining the value of these, they found the price to be fifty thousand denarii.
In this way, the Word of God was increasing strongly and was being confirmed.
Then, when these things were completed, Paul decided in the Spirit, after crossing through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying, “Then, after I have been there, it is necessary for me to see Rome also.”
But sending two of those who were ministering to him, Timothy and Erastus, into Macedonia, he himself remained for a time in Asia.
Now at that time, there occurred no small disturbance concerning the Way of the Lord.
For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith making silver shrines for Diana, was providing no small profit to craftsmen.
And calling them together, with those who were employed in the same way, he said: “Men, you know that our income is from this craft.
And you are seeing and hearing that this man Paul, by persuasion, has turned away a great multitude, not only from Ephesus, but from nearly all of Asia, saying, ‘These things are not gods which have been made by hands.’
Thus, not only is this, our occupation, in danger of being brought into repudiation, but also the temple of the great Diana will be reputed as nothing! Then even her majesty, whom all of Asia and the world worships, will begin to be destroyed.”
Upon hearing this, they were filled with anger, and they cried out, saying, “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!”
And the city was filled with confusion. And having seized Gaius and Aristarchus of Macedonia, companions of Paul, they rushed violently, with one accord, into the amphitheater.
Then, when Paul wanted to enter to the people, the disciples would not permit him.
And some of the leaders from Asia, who were his friends, also sent to him, requesting that he not present himself in the amphitheater.
But others were crying out various things. For the assembly was in confusion, and most did not know the reason they had been called together.
So they dragged Alexander from the crowd, while the Jews were propelling him forward. And Alexander, gesturing with his hand for silence, wanted to give the people an explanation.
But as soon as they realized him to be a Jew, all with one voice, for about two hours, were crying out, “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!”
And when the scribe had calmed the crowds, he said: “Men of Ephesus, now what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is in the service of the great Diana and of the offspring of Jupiter?
Therefore, since these things are not able to be contradicted, it is necessary for you to be calm and to do nothing rash.
For you have brought forward these men, who are neither sacrilegious nor blasphemers against your goddess.
But if Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have a case against anyone, they can convene in the courts, and there are proconsuls. Let them accuse one another.
But if you would inquire about other things, this can be decided in a lawful assembly.
For now we are in peril of being convicted of sedition over today’s events, since there is no one guilty (against whom we are able to provide evidence) in this gathering.” And when he had said this, he dismissed the assembly.