Now it came to pass, while the multitude pressed upon him to hear the word of God, and having stood still, he was beside the lake of Gennesaret.
And he saw two boats standing by the lake, but the fishermen having gone out of them, were washing their nets.
And having entered into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And having sat down, he taught the crowds from the boat.
And when he stopped speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the depth, and let down your nets for a catch.
And having answered, Simon said to him, Master, having toiled through the whole night, we took nothing, but at thy saying, I will let down the net.
And having done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, and their net was tearing.
And they beckoned to their partners in the other boat, after coming, to assist them. And they came and filled both the boats, so as for them to be sunk down.
But Simon Peter having seen, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, because I am a sinful man, Lord.
For astonishment surrounded him, and all those with him, at the catch of the fishes that they caught,
and likewise also James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou will be catching men.
And when they brought their boats to land, after forsaking all, they followed him.
And it came to pass while he was in one of the cities, behold, a man full of leprosy. And having seen Jesus, having fallen on his face, he besought him, saying, Lord, if thou will, thou can make me clean.
And having stretched forth his hand, he touched him, having said, I will, be thou clean. And straightaway the leprosy departed from him.
And he commanded him to tell no man, but, After going, show thyself to the priest, and bring concerning thy cleansing, just as Moses commanded for a testimony to them.
But the report about him went through more, and many multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him from their infirmities.
But he himself was withdrawing into the desolate regions, and praying.
And it came to pass during one of those days, he was also teaching. And there were seated Pharisees and law teachers, who were men having come out of every town of Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was to heal them.
And behold, men bringing a man on a bed who was paralyzed. And they sought to bring him in, and to lay him before him.
And not having found how they might bring him in because of the multitude, after going up upon the housetop, they let him down through the tiles with the small bed into the midst in front of Jesus.
And having seen their faith, he said to him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.
And the scholars and the Pharisees began to deliberate, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, except God alone?
But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, having responded, he said to them, Why do ye deliberate in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say, Thy sins are forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and walk?
But that ye may know that the Son of man has authority upon earth to forgive sins (he said to the paralyzed man), I say to thee, Arise, and after taking up thy small bed, go to thy house.
And immediately having risen up before them, after taking up that on which he lay, he departed to his house glorifying God.
And amazement gripped all, and they glorified God. And they were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things today.
And after these things he went forth and saw a tax collector, named Levi, sitting at the tax office. And he said to him, Follow me.
And after leaving behind all, having risen up, he followed him.
And Levi made a great feast for him in his house, and there was a large crowd of tax collectors and others who were relaxing with them.
And their scholars and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?
And having answered, Jesus said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those faring badly.
I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance.
And they said to him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make supplications, and likewise those of the Pharisees, but thine eat and drink.
And he said to them, Ye cannot make the sons of the wedding hall fast while the bridegroom is with them.
But the days will also come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, then they will fast in those days.
And he also spoke a parable to them. No man puts a patch of a new garment on an old garment, otherwise both the new tears, and that from the new will not blend with the old.
And no man puts new wine into old wineskins, otherwise the new wine will burst the wineskins, and will itself be spilled, and the wineskins will be ruined.
But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved together.
And no man having drunk old straightaway desires new, for he says, The old is better.