And Jehovah spoke to Moses in Mount Sinai, saying.
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When you come into the land which I am giving to you, then the land shall keep a sabbath to Jehovah.
You shall sow your field six years, and you shall prune your vineyard six years, and shall gather its produce.
And in the seventh year shall be a sabbath of rest to the land, a sabbath to Jehovah. You shall not sow your field, and you shall not prune your vineyard.
You shall not reap that which grows of itself of your harvest; and you shall not gather the grapes of your unkept vine; it shall be a year of rest to the land.
And the sabbath of the land shall be to you for food, to you, and to your male slave, and to you female slave, and to your hired one, and to your tenant, those living among you;
and to your livestock, and to the animal in your land, all its produce shall be for food.
And you shall number to yourself seven sabbaths of years, seven years times seven, and all the days of the seven sabbaths of years shall be to you forty nine years.
And you shall let a ram's horn resound, a signal in the seventh month, in the tenth of the month; in the day of atonement, less a ram's horn pass throughout all your land;
and you shall make the fiftieth year holy, a year. And you shall proclaim liberty in the land to all its inhabitants; it shall be a jubilee to you. And you shall return every man to his possession; yea, you shall turn back each to his family.
It is a jubilee, the fiftieth year; it is a year to you. You shall not sow, nor reap that which grows of itself, nor gather from its unkept vines;
for it is a jubilee, it is holy to you; you shall eat its increase out of the field.
In the year of jubilee you shall return each one to his possession.
And if you sell anything to your neighbor, or buy from the hand of your neighbor, you shall not each man oppress his brother.
By the number of years after the jubilee you shall buy from your neighbor; by the number of the years of increase he shall sell to you;
according to the many years you shall increase its price; and by the fewness of the years you shall diminish its price, for he is selling to you the number of crops.
And you shall not oppress each man his neighbor, and you shall fear your God, for I am Jehovah your God.
And you shall do My statutes, and you shall keep my judgments and shall do them; and you shall live on the land securely.
And the land shall give its fruit, and you shall eat to satisfaction; and you shall dwell securely on it.
And when you say, What shall we eat in the seventh year; for, lo, we may not sow nor gather our increase?
Then I have commanded My blessing on you in the sixth year, and it shall produce the increase for three years;
and you shall sow the eighth year, and shall eat of the old crop until the ninth year, until the coming in of its crop; you shall eat of the old.
And the land shall not be sold in perpetuity; for the land is Mine; for you are aliens and tenants with Me.
And you shall grant a redemption for the land in all the land of your possession.
If your brother has become poor and has sold his possessions then his kinsman redeemer shall come, and he shall redeem the thing his brother sold.
But when a man has no redeemer, and his own hand has reached out, and he has enough for its redemption,
then he shall count the years since its sale, and shall give back the surplus to the man to whom he sold; and he shall return to his possession.
And if his hand has not found enough to give back to him, then the thing he sold shall be in the hand of him who buys it until the year of jubilee. And it shall go out in the jubilee, and he shall return to his possession.
And when a man sells a dwelling house in a walled city, then his right of redemption shall be the end of the year of its sale; his right of redemption shall be a year of days
And if it is not redeemed until a full year is complete, then the house in the walled city shall be established to perpetuity to its buyer, throughout his generations; it shall not go out in the jubilee.
But the houses of the villages which have no walls all around shall be counted as the field of the country; there are redemption rights to it. And it shall go out in the jubilee.
As to the cities of the Levites, houses of the cities of their possession, never ending redemption rights shall be to the Levites.
And that which one redeems from the Levites, both the sale of a house, and the city of his possession, shall go out in the jubilee. For the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession in the midst of the sons of Israel.
And the field, the open land of their cities, shall not be sold; for it is a never ending possession to them.
And when your brother has become poor, and his hand has failed with you, then you shall help him. He shall live with you as an alien and a tenant.
You shall take no interest from him, or increase; and you shall fear your God; and the life of your brother is with you.
You shall not give silver to him with interest, and you shall not give your food for increase.
I am Jehovah who has brought you out of the land of Egypt, to give to you the land of Canaan, to become your God.
And when your brother becomes poor with you, and he has been sold to you, you shall not lay on him the service of a slave.
He shall be with you as a hireling, as a tenant he shall be with you; he shall serve with you until the year of jubilee;
then he shall go out from you, he and his sons with him, and shall return to his family; he shall even return to the possession of his father.
For they are My servants, whom I have brought out from the land of Egypt; they shall not be sold with the sale of a slave.
You shall not rule over him with severity, and you shall fear your God.
And your male slave and your female slave whom you have shall be from the nations who are all around you, you shall buy them as male slave or female slave;
and also you may buy of the sons of the tenants who are sojourning with you, and of their families who are with you, which they have fathered in your land. And they shall be a possession to you.
And you shall take them for inheritance to your sons after you, to hold for a possession; you may lay service on them forever. But on your brothers, the sons of Israel, one over another, you shall not rule over him with severity.
And if lifts up a hand of an alien or a tenant with you, and your brother grows poor with him, and he sells himself to an alien, a tenant with you, or to the offshoot of the family of an alien,
after he has been sold, there is a redemption to him; one of his brothers may redeem him,
or his uncle, or a son of his uncle, may redeem him, or any of his fleshly relations of his family may redeem him. Or, if his own hand has reached out to gain , then he may be redeemed.
And he shall count with his buyer from the year of his being sold to him until the year of jubilee, and the silver of his sale shall be by the number of years. As the days of a hireling, it shall be with him.
If there are yet many years according to them, he shall give back his redemption, from the silver of his purchase.
And if few are left of the years till the year of jubilee, then he shall count with him according to his years he shall give back his redemption price.
As a hireling, year by year, he shall be with him, and he shall not rule him with severity before your eyes.
And if he is not redeemed in this way, then he shall go out in the year of jubilee, he and his sons with him.
For the sons of Israel are servants to Me; they are My servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt; I am Jehovah your God.