These things have I spoken to you, that you may not be ensnared.
They will put you out of the synagogues; indeed, the time is coming, when he that kills you, will think that he is offering service to God.
And these things they will do, because they know neither the Father nor me.
But these things I have told you, that, when the time has come, you may remember that I told you of them. But these things I did not tell you at the beginning, because I was with you.
And now I go to him that sent me, and no one of you asks me, Whither goest thou?
But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
But yet I tell you the truth: it is profitable for you that I go away. For if I go not away, the Paraclete will not come to you. But if I go away, I will send him to you.
And when he has come, he will convince the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment.
Of sin, because they believe not on me;
of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and you see me no more;
of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged.
I have yet many things to say to you; but you can not bear them now.
But when he, the Spirit of the truth, has come, he will guide you into all the truth; for he will not speak of himself; but what he hears, that will he speak, and he will show you things to come.
He will glorify me; for he will take of mine, and show it to you.
All things that the Father has are mine; for this reason I said, that he will take of mine, and show it to you.
A little while, and you will not see me; and again, a little while, and you will see me, because I go to the Father.
Then some of his disciples said one to another: What is this that he says to us, A little while, and you will not see me; and again, a little while, and you will see me? and, Be cause I go to the Father?
Therefore they said: What is this that he says, The little while? We know not what he says.
Then Jesus knew that they wished to ask him; and he said to them: Are you inquiring of one another about this, because I said, A little while and you will not see me; and again, a little while, and you will see me?
Verily, verily I say to you, you shall weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow, be cause her hour has come; but when the child is born, she no longer remembers the pain, for joy that a man is born into the world.
You, therefore, have sorrow now; but I shall see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one takes from you.
And in that day you shall ask nothing of me; verily, verily I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give you.
Till this time you have asked for nothing in my name; ask, and you shall receive, that your joy may be full.
These things I have spoken to you in parables; the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in parables, but will teach you plainly concerning the Father.
In that day you shall ask in my name; and I say not to you, that I will ask the Father in your behalf;
for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God.
I came forth from the Father, and have come into the world: again I leave the world, and go to the Father.
His disciples said to him: Lo, now thou speakest plainly, and speakest no parable.
Now we know that thou knowest all things, and hast no need that any one should ask thee. By this we believe that thou hast come forth from God.
Jesus answered them: Do you now believe?
Behold, the hour is coming, and has now come, in which you shall be scattered, each one to his own home, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
These things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you shall have affliction, but be of good courage; I have overcome the world.