In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar, a vision appeared to me, Daniel, after that which appeared to me at the first.
And I looked in the vision, and it happened when I looked that I was at Shushan the palace, which is in the province of Elam. And in a vision I looked, and I was by the Ulai Canal.
Then I lifted up my eyes and looked. And behold! A ram was standing before the canal, having two horns. And the two horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last.
I saw the ram pushing westward and northward and southward, so that no beasts could stand before him, and none could deliver out of his hand. But he did according to his will and became great.
And I was considering. And behold! A male of the goats came from the west, over the face of all the earth and did not touch the ground. And the he goat had an outstanding horn between his eyes.
And he came to the ram with two horns which I had seen standing before the canal. And he ran to it in the fury of his power.
And I saw him touched beside the ram. And he was moved with anger against him. And he struck the ram and shattered his two horns. And there was no power in the ram to stand before him. But he threw him down to the ground and trampled him. And no one could deliver the ram from his hand.
Then the he goat became very great. And when he was mighty, the great horn was broken. And in its place came up four outstanding ones toward the four winds of the heavens.
And out of one of them came a little horn which became very great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the bountiful land .
And it became great, even to the host of the heavens. And it caused some of the host and of the stars to fall to the ground, and it trampled them.
Yea, he magnified himself even to the leader of the host. And the regular sacrifice was taken away by him, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down.
And a host was given with the regular sacrifice because of transgression. And it threw the truth down to the ground, and it worked and prospered.
Then I heard a certain holy one speaking, and another holy one said to that one who spoke, Until when is the vision, the regular sacrifice and the desolating transgression, to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trampled?
And he said to me, For two thousand, three hundred evenings and mornings, then the sanctuary will be vindicated.
And it happened when I, Daniel, had seen the vision, then I sought the meaning. And, behold, the form of a man stood before me.
And I heard a man's voice between the banks of Ulai, and he called and said, Gabriel, make this one understand the vision.
And he came beside my place. And when he came, I feared and fell on my face. But he said to me, O son of man, understand, for the vision is for the time of the end.
And while he was speaking with me, I was stunned and on my face toward the ground. But he touched me and made me stand.
And he said, Behold, I will make you know what shall happen in the last end of the indignation. For it is for the time appointed for the end.
The ram which you saw with two horns are the kings of Media and Persia.
And the shaggy goat is the king of Greece. And the great horn between his eyes is the first king.
And as for that which was broken, and four stood up in its place, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not in its power.
And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors have come to the full, a king, strong of face and skilled at intrigues, shall stand up.
And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power. And he shall destroy wondrously, and he shall prosper, and work, and destroy the mighty, and the holy people.
And also through his skill he will make deceit succeed in his land. And he will lift himself up in his heart, and be at ease; he shall destroy many. He shall also stand up against the Ruler of rulers, but he shall be broken without a hand.
And the morning and evening vision that was told is true. But you shall shut up the vision, for it shall be for many days.
And I, Daniel, was faint. And I was sick for days. Afterwards, I got up and did the king's business. And I was amazed at the vision. But there was no understanding.