After these things, Jesus went away across the sea of Galilee, that is, of Tiberias;
and there was following him a great multitude, because they had been viewing the signs which he did upon such as were sick.
But Jesus had gone up into the mountain, and, there, was sitting with his disciples.
Now the passover was near, the feast of the Jews.
So then Jesus, lifting up his eyes, and beholding that a great multitude was coming unto him, saith unto Philip—Whence are we to buy loaves, that these may eat?
But, this, he was saying, to test him; for, he himself, knew, what he was about to do.
Philip answered him—Two hundred denaries-worth of loaves, are not sufficient for them, that, each one, may take, a little.
One from among his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, saith unto him—
There is a little lad here, that hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes,—but, these,—what are they, for such numbers?
Jesus said—Make the people recline. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men reclined, to the number of about five thousand.
Jesus therefore took the loaves, and, giving thanks, went on distributing unto them that reclined; in like manner, of the small fishes also: as much as they were wishing.
And, when they were well-filled, he saith unto his disciples—Gather up the broken pieces left over, that nothing be lost.
So they gathered them up, and filled twelve baskets, with broken pieces out of the five barley loaves,—which were left over by them who had eaten.
The people, therefore, seeing what signs he wrought, began to say—This, is, of a truth, the prophet who was to come into the world.
Jesus, therefore, getting to know that they were about to come, and seize him, that they might make him king, retired again into the mountain, himself, alone.
But, when evening came, his disciples went down unto the sea;
and, entering into a boat, were going across the sea into Capernaum. And, dark, already, had it become, and, not yet, had Jesus reached them;
moreover the sea, by reason of a great wind that blew, was rising high.
Having therefore rowed about twenty-five or thirty furlongs, they observe Jesus, walking upon the sea, and, near the boat, coming; and they were affrighted.
But, he, saith unto them—It is, I: be not affrighted!
They were willing, therefore, to receive him into the boat; and, straightway, the boat was at land, whither they had been slowly going.
On the morrow, the multitude that was standing on the other side of the sea, saw that there was not, another small-boat, there, save one,—and that Jesus entered not, along with his disciples, unto the boat, but that, alone, his disciples departed:—
howbeit there came boats out of Tiberias, near the place where they did eat the bread, after the Lord had given thanks:—
When, therefore, the multitude saw, that, Jesus, was not there, nor yet his disciples, they themselves, got into the small boats, and came unto Capernaum, seeking Jesus;
and, finding him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him—Rabbi! when, camest thou, hither?
Jesus answered them, and said—Verily, verily, I say unto you: Ye seek me, not because ye saw signs, but because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled.
Be working, not for the food that perisheth, but for the food that endureth unto life age-abiding,—which, the Son of Man, unto you, will give; for upon, the same, hath the Father, even God, set his seal.
They said, therefore, unto him—What are we to do, that we may be working the works of God?
Jesus answered, and said unto them—This, is the work of God: that ye believe on him whom, he, hath sent forth.
They said, therefore, unto him—What, then, art, thou, doing, by way of sign, that we may see, and believe in thee: what art thou working?
Our fathers, did eat, the manna, in the desert,—just as it is written: Bread out of heaven, he gave them to eat.
Jesus said unto them—Verily, verily, I say unto you: Not Moses, gave you the bread out of heaven; but, my Father, giveth you the real bread out of heaven.
For, the bread of God, is that which is coming down out of heaven, and giving, life, unto the world.
They said, therefore, unto him—Sir! Evermore, give us this bread.
Jesus said unto them—I, am the bread of life: he that cometh unto me, in nowise shall hunger, and, he that believeth on me, in nowise shall thirst, any more.
But I told you—Ye have even seen [me], and yet do not believe.
All that which the Father is giving me, unto me, will have come, and, him that cometh unto me, in nowise will I cast out,—
Because I have come down from heaven,—Not that I should be doing my own will, but the will of him that sent me.
And, this, is the will of him that sent me, That, of all that which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day.
For, this, is the will of my Father, That, every one that vieweth the Son, and believeth on him, should have life age-abiding, and, I, should raise him up, at the last day.
The Jews, therefore, began to murmur concerning him, because he said—I, am the bread that came down out of heaven;
and were saying—Is not, this, Jesus, the son of Joseph,—of whom, we, know the father and the mother! How is it then, that he, now, saith: Out of heaven, have I come down?
Jesus answered, and said unto them—Be not murmuring, one with another:
No one, can come unto me, except, the Father who sent me, draw him,—and, I, will raise him up, in the last day.
It is written in the prophets,—And they shall be, all, the instructed of God: Every one who hath heard of the Father, and learned, cometh unto me.
Not that any one hath seen, the Father, save he who is from God,—this one, hath seen the Father.
Verily, verily, I say unto you: He that believeth, hath life age-abiding.
I am the bread of life:—
Your fathers, did eat, in the desert, the manna,—and died:
This, is the bread which, out of heaven, cometh down, that one, thereof, may eat,—and not die.
I, am the living bread, which, out of heaven, came down: If one eat of this bread, he shall live unto times age-abiding; and, the bread, moreover, which, I, will give, is, my flesh—for the world’s life.
The Jews, therefore, began to strive one with another, saying—How can this one, unto us, give his flesh to eat?
Jesus, therefore, said unto them—Verily, verily, I say unto you—Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man, and drink his blood, ye have not life within yourselves.
He that feedeth upon my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath life age-abiding, and, I, will raise him up at the last day;
For, my flesh, is, true, food, and, my blood, is, true, drink:
He that feedeth upon my flesh, and drinketh my blood, in me, abideth, and, I, in him.
Just as the living Father sent me,—and I live by reason of the Father, he also that feedeth upon me, even he, shall live by reason of me.
This, is the bread, which, out of heaven, came down:—Not just as your fathers did eat—and died! He that feedeth upon this bread, shall live unto times age-abiding.
These things, said he, as, in a synagogue, he was teaching, in Capernaum.
Many, of his disciples, therefore, when they heard, said—Hard, is this discourse,—Who can, thereunto, hearken?
But Jesus, knowing within himself that his disciples were murmuring concerning this, said unto them—Doth, this, cause, you, to stumble?
[What] then, if ye should view the Son of Man ascending where he was before? …
The spirit, it is, that giveth life,—the flesh, profiteth, nothing: The declarations which, I, have spoken unto you, are, spirit, and, are, life.
But there are some from among you, who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning, who they were that did not believe, and who it was would deliver him up;—
and he went on to say—For this cause, have I said unto you: No one, can come unto me, except it have been given him, of the Father.
Because of this, many from among his disciples, went away back, and, no longer, with him, were walking.
Jesus, therefore, said unto the twelve—Are, ye also, wishing to withdraw?
Simon Peter answered him—Lord! unto whom, shall we go? Declarations of life age-abiding, thou hast;
And, we, have believed, and come to know,—that, thou, art the Holy One of God.
Jesus answered them—Did not, I, make choice, of you, the twelve? And yet, from among you, one, is, an adversary.
Now he was speaking of Judas, son of Simon Iscariot: for, the same, was about to deliver him up,—one of the twelve.