A Psalm of David. Strive, O HaShem, with them that strive with me; fight against them that fight against me.
Take hold of shield and buckler, and rise up to my help.
Draw out also the spear, and the battle-axe, against them that pursue me; say unto my soul: 'I am Thy salvation.'
Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion that seek after my soul; let them be turned back and be abashed that devise my hurt.
Let them be as chaff before the wind, the angel of HaShem thrusting them.
Let their way be dark and slippery, the angel of HaShem pursuing them.
For without cause have they hid for me the pit, even their net, without cause have they digged for my soul.
Let destruction come upon him unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself; with destruction let him fall therein.
And my soul shall be joyful in HaShem; it shall rejoice in His salvation.
All my bones shall say: 'HaShem, who is like unto Thee, who deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him?'
Unrighteous witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I know not.
They repay me evil for good; bereavement is come to my soul.
But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth, I afflicted my soul with fasting; and my prayer, may it return into mine own bosom.
I went about as though it had been my friend or my brother; I bowed down mournful, as one that mourneth for his mother.
But when I halt they rejoice, and gather themselves together; the abjects gather themselves together against me, and those whom I know not; they tear me, and cease not;
With the profanest mockeries of backbiting they gnash at me with their teeth.
L-rd, how long wilt Thou look on? Rescue my soul from their destructions, mine only one from the lions.
I will give Thee thanks in the great congregation; I will praise Thee among a numerous people.
Let not them that are wrongfully mine enemies rejoice over me; neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.
For they speak not peace; but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land.
Yea, they open their mouth wide against me; they say: 'Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it.'
Thou hast seen, O HaShem; keep not silence; O L-rd, be not far from me.
Rouse Thee, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my G-d and my L-rd.
Judge me, O HaShem my G-d, according to Thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me.
Let them not say in their heart: 'Aha, we have our desire'; let them not say: 'We have swallowed him up.'
Let them be ashamed and abashed together that rejoice at my hurt; let them be clothed with shame and confusion that magnify themselves against me.
Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that delight in my righteousness; yea, let them say continually: 'Magnified be HaShem, who delighteth in the peace of His servant.'
And my tongue shall speak of Thy righteousness, and of Thy praise all the day.