For the rest, my brethren—rejoice in the Lord. To be writing, the same things, unto you, to me, is not irksome, while, for you, is safe:—
Beware of the dogs, beware of mischievous workers, beware of the mutilation;
For, we, are the circumcision, who in the Spirit of God, are doing divine service, and are boasting in Christ Jesus, and, not in flesh, having confidence,—
Although, indeed, I, might have confidence even in flesh. If any other thinketh to have confidence in flesh, I, more:—
Circumcised, the eighth day, of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews,—regarding law, a Pharisee,
Regarding zeal, persecuting the assembly, regarding the righteousness that is in law, having become blameless.
But, whatever things, unto me, were gain, the same, have I accounted, for the Christ’s sake, loss;
Yea, doubtless! and I account all things to be, loss, because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for the sake of whom, the loss, of all things, have I suffered, and do account them refuse, in order that, Christ, I may win,
And be found in him—not having a righteousness of my own, that which is by law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is, of God, upon my faith,—
To get to know him, and the power of his resurrection and fellowship of his sufferings, becoming conformed unto his death,—
If by any means I may advance to the earlier resurrection, which is from among the dead:
Not that I have, already, received, or have, already, reached perfection, but I am pressing on—if I may even lay hold of that for which I have also been laid hold of by Christ [Jesus]:—
Brethren! I, as to myself, reckon that I have, not yet, laid hold; one thing, however,—the things behind, forgetting, and, unto the things before, eagerly reaching out,
With the goal in view, I press on for the prize of the upward calling of God in Christ Jesus.
As many, therefore, as are full-grown, let, this, be our resolve; and, if, somewhat differently, ye are resolved, this, also, shall, God, unto you reveal.
Nevertheless, whereunto we have advanced, in the same rank, stepping along.
Imitators together of me, become ye, brethren, and keep an eye on them who, thus, are walking,—even as ye have, us, for, an ensample.
For, many, are walking—of whom I have often been telling you, and, now, even weeping, am telling,—the enemies of the cross of the Christ;
Whose, end, is destruction, whose, God, is the belly, and [whose], glory, is in their shame, who, upon the earthly things, are resolved.
For, our citizenship, in the heavens, hath its rise; wherefore, a Saviour also, do we ardently await,—The Lord Jesus Christ,—
Who will transfigure our humbled body, into conformity with his glorified body, according to the energy wherewith he is able even to subdue, unto himself, all things.