Then therefore Pilate took Jesus and scourged him.
And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and put on him a purple robe, and approached him
and said, Hail, king of the Jews! and they gave him blows on the face.
Again Pilate went forth, and saith to them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find nothing criminal in him.
Jesus therefore came forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And [Pilate] saith to them, Behold the man!
When therefore the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify! crucify! Pilate saith to them, Take him yourselves, and crucify him; for I find nothing criminal in him.
The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to the law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God.
When Pilate therefore heard this, he was the more afraid;
and went again into the palace, and saith to Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.
Pilate saith to him, Dost thou not speak to me? Dost thou not know that I have power to release thee, and have power to crucify thee?
Jesus answered, Thou wouldst have no power against me, unless it had been given thee from above; for this cause he that delivered me up to thee hath the greater sin.
From this time Pilate sought to release him. But the Jews cried out, saying, If thou release this man, thou art not a friend of Caesar. Every one that maketh himself a king, setteth himself against Caesar.
When therefore Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down on the judgment-seat, in a place called the Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
Now it was the preparation of the passover. It was about the sixth hour. And he saith to the Jews, Behold your king!
Upon this they cried out, Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him! Pilate saith to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar.
Then therefore he delivered him up to them to be crucified. They therefore took Jesus;
and bearing his own cross, he went forth into the place called Place of a Skull; in Hebrew, Golgotha;
where they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus in the midst.
And Pilate wrote an inscription also, and put it on the cross. And the writing was, "Jesus the Nazarene, the king of the Jews."
This inscription therefore was read by many of the Jews; for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek.
Therefore the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Write not, The king of the Jews; but that he said, I am king of the Jews.
Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part, and also his coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.
They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. That the scripture might be fulfilled: "They parted my garments among them, and for my vesture they cast lots." These things the soldiers did.
Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary the Magdalene.
Jesus therefore, when he saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing by, saith to his mother, Woman, behold thy son!
Then he saith to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home.
After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now finished, in order that the Scripture might be accomplished, saith, I thirst.
A vessel was brought full of vinegar; and putting a sponge filled with vinegar upon a stalk of hyssop, they raised it to his mouth.
When therefore he had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished! and he bowed his head, and yielded up his spirit.
The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the bodies might not remain upon the cross on the sabbath, for that sabbath was a great day, besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.
So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with him.
But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was already dead, they broke not his legs;
but one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and immediately there came out blood and water.
And he that hath seen hath borne witness, and his witness is true; and he knoweth that he saith what is true, that ye also may believe.
For these things came to pass, that the scripture might be fulfilled, "A bone of him shall not be broken."
And again another scripture saith, "They shall look on him whom they pierced."
And after this, Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but concealing it for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus; and Pilate gave him leave. They came therefore and took him away.
Nicodemus also, he who at the first went to him by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds weight.
Then they took the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the manner of the Jews in preparing for burial.
Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had ever been laid.
There then, on account of the Jews’ preparation-day, they laid Jesus; for the tomb was at hand.