Thou thyself, therefore bring near unto thee—Aaron thy brother and his sons with him out of the midst of the sons of Israel, that they may minister as priests unto me,—Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar sons of Aaron.
And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother,—for glory and for beauty.
Thou thyself, therefore, shalt speak unto all the wise-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom,—and they shall make Aaron’s garments, to hallow him for ministering as priest unto me.
These, therefore are the garments which they shall make—a breastpiece, and an ephod and a robe, and a tunic of checker work, a turban and a girdle,—so shall they make holy garments for Aaron thy brother and for his sons, for ministering as priests unto me.
They themselves, therefore, shall take the gold, and the blue and the purple,—and the crimson, and the fine linen.
And they shall make the ephod,—of gold, blue and purple crimson and fine-twined linen, the work of a skilful weaver.
Two joining shoulderpieces, shall there be to it upon the two extremities thereof that it may be joined together,
And the curious band for fastening it, that is upon it, like the work thereof of the same, shall it be,—of gold blue and purple and crimson and fine-twined linen,
And thou shalt take two onyx stones,—and engrave upon them the names of the sons of Israel:
six of their names, on the one stone,—and the names of the six that remain, on the second stone according to their births:
with the work of a stone engraver, like seal-ring engravings, shalt thou engrave the two stones, after the names of the sons of Israel,—to be encircled with settings of gold, shalt thou make them.
And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulderpieces of the ephod, as stones of memorial for the sons of Israel,—so shall Aaron bear their names before Yahweh upon his two shoulders, for a memorial.
And thou shalt make ouches of gold;
and two chains of pure gold, like cord, shalt thou make them, of wreathen work, and thou shalt put the wreathen chains on the ouches.
And thou shalt make a breastpiece for giving sentence the work of a skilful weaver, like the work of the ephod, shalt thou make it, of gold, blue, and purple and crimson and fine-twined linen, shalt thou make it.
Four-square, shall it be double,—a span the length thereof and a span the breadth thereof.
And thou shalt set therein a setting of stones, four rows of stones,—one row—a sardius, a topaz and an emerald, the first row;
and the second row a carbuncle a sapphire and a diamond;
and the third row an opal, an agate, and an amethyst;
and the fourth row, a Tarshish stone, a sardonyx, and a jasper,—enclosed with gold, shall they be when they are set.
And the stones shall be after the names of the sons of Israel—twelve, after their names,—as the engravings of a seal-ring everyone after his name, shall they be, for the twelve tribes,
And thou shalt make, upon the breastpiece, chains like cords of wreathen work,—of pure gold.
And thou shalt make, upon the breastpiece, two rings of gold,—and thou shalt place the two rings, upon the two ends of the breastpiece.
And thou shalt hang the two wreathen chains of gold upon the two rings,—upon the ends of the breastpiece;
and the other two ends of the two wreathen chains, shalt thou fasten upon the two ouches, so shalt thou hang them upon the shoulderpieces of the ephod, in the forefront thereof.
And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends of the breastpiece upon the border thereof, which is on the side of the ephod inwards.
And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and place them upon the two shoulderpieces of the ephod beneath, on the front of the face thereof, over against its joining, above the curious band of the ephod:
that they may bind the breastpiece by the rings thereof unto the rings of the ephod with a cord of blue, so that it may remain upon the curious band of the ephod, and the breastpiece not be removed from of the ephod.
So shall Aaron bear the names of the sons of Israel in the breastpiece for giving sentence upon his heart when he goeth into the holy place,—for a memorial before Yahweh continually.
Thus shalt thou place, in the breastpiece for giving sentence, the lights and the perfections, so shall they be upon the heart of Aaron when he goeth in before Yahweh,—so shall Aaron bear the sentence of the sons of Israel, upon his heart before Yahweh continually.
And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod wholly of blue;
and the opening for his head shall be in the midst thereof,—a border, shall there be to the opening thereof round about the work of a weaver, like the opening of a coat of mail, shall there be to it, it must not be rent.
And thou shalt make upon the skirts thereof pomegranates of blue and purple and crimson, upon the skirts thereof round about—and bells of gold in the midst of them round about:
a bell of gold and a pomegranate, a bell of gold, and a pomegranate,—upon the skirts of the robe, round about.
And it shall be upon Aaron, for ministering,—so shall be heard the sound of him—when he goeth into the holy place, before Yahweh, and cometh out, and dieth not.
And thou shalt make a burnished plate, of pure gold,—and shalt engrave thereupon, like the engravings of a seal-ring, Holiness to Yahweh.
And thou shalt put it upon a cord of blue, so shall it be upon the turban,—upon the forefront of the turban, shall it be.
So shall it be upon the forehead of Aaron, and Aaron shall bear the iniquity of the hallowed things, which the sons of Israel shall hallow, for all their hallowed gift,—and it shall be upon his forehead continually, that there may be acceptance for them before Yahweh.
And thou shalt weave, in checker work the tunic of fine linen, and shalt make a turban of fine linen,—and, a girdle, shalt thou make the work of an embroiderer.
And, for the sons of Aaron, shalt thou make tunics, and shalt make for them girdles,—and caps, shalt thou make for them, for glory and for beauty.
And thou shalt clothe therewith Aaron thy brother, and his sons, with him,—and shalt anoint them and install them, and hallow them, so shall they minister as priests unto me.
And thou shalt make for them breeches of linen, to cover their unseemliness, from the loins even unto the thighs, shall they be;
so shall they be upon Aaron and upon his sons, when they go into the tent of meeting, or when they approach unto the altar, to minister in the holy place, lest they bear iniquity, and die,—a statute age-abiding, to him and to his seed after him.