Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest we let them glide away.
For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just punishment,
how shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation? which at first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed to us by those who heard him;
God also bearing testimony with them by signs and wonders, and by various mighty deeds, and by distributions of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will.
For not to angels has he subjected the world to come of which we speak.
But one in a certain place testified, saying: What is man, that thou art mindful of him; or the son of man, that thou dost visit him?
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; thou hast crowned him with glory and honor;
thou hast put all things under his feet. For, in putting all things under him, he left nothing that is not put under him: but now we do not yet see all things put under him.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, that he might, by the grace of God, taste death for every man―we see him, on account of his having suffered death, crowned with glory and honor.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
For both he that sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, are all of one Father: for which reason, he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying:
I will declare thy name among my brethren; in the midst of the assembly, will I sing hymns to thee.
And again: I will put my trust in him. And again: Behold, I, and the children that God has given me.
Since, then, the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also, in like manner, partook of the same, that, through his death, he might deprive of power him that has the power of death, that is, the devil;
and might set free those who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
For, verily, he does not take hold of angels, but he takes hold of the posterity of Abraham.
Wherefore, it behooved him to be made like his brethren in all things, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, in order to make expiation for the sins of the people.
For, inasmuch as he himself has suffered in being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.