Be ye therefore imitators of God, as dear children
and walk in charity even as the Christ also has loved us and has given himself for us [as] an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savour.
But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becomes saints,
neither dishonest words nor foolishness nor low jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks.
For this ye know, that no fornicator nor unclean person nor covetous man, who is [also] an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Let no one deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.
Be not ye, therefore, partakers with them.
For in another time ye were darkness, but now [ye are] light in the Lord: walk as children of light;
(For the fruit of the Spirit [is] in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
approving what is well pleasing unto the Lord.
And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove [them].
For it is a shame even to speak of those things which they do in secret.
But all these things when they are reproved by the light are made manifest, for the light is that which manifests everything.
Therefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest and arise from the dead, and the Christ shall shine upon thee.
See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
Therefore, be ye not unwise, but understanding of what the will of the Lord [is].
And be not drunk with wine, in which there is excess, but be filled with the Spirit,
speaking among yourselves with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and praising the Lord in your hearts,
giving thanks always for all things unto the God and Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God.
Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husband, as unto the Lord.
For the husband is the head of the wife even as the Christ is head of the church, and it is he who gives saving health to the body.
Therefore, as the church is subject unto the Christ, so [let] the wives [be] to their own husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives even as the Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her,
that he might sanctify and cleanse her in the washing of water by the word,
that he might present her glorious for himself, a church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish.
So ought husbands to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loves his wife loves himself.
For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it even as the Lord with his church:
For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and shall be joined unto his wife, and they shall be two in one flesh.
This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church.
Nevertheless, let each one of you do likewise, let each one so love his wife even as himself, and let the wife [see] that she reverences [her] husband.: