And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,
being tempted forty days by the devil. And he ate nothing in those days, and when they were ended, afterward he was hungry.
And the devil said to him, If thou are the Son of God, speak to this stone that it may become bread.
And Jesus answered, saying to him, It is written, Man will not live on bread alone, but on every saying of God.
And having brought him onto a high mountain, the devil showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
And the devil said to him, I will give to thee all this authority, and the glory of them, because it has been delivered to me, and to whomever I want I give it.
If therefore thou will worship before me, it will all be thine.
And having answered, Jesus said to him, Go thee behind me, Satan. It is written, Thou shall worship the Lord thy God, and him only shall thou serve.
And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and he said to him, If thou are the Son of God, cast thyself down from here,
for it is written, He will give his agents orders about thee, to protect thee,
and, They will take thee up on their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.
And having answered, Jesus said to him, It is said, Thou shall not challenge the Lord thy God.
And when the devil ended every temptation, he withdrew from him until a time.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And a report went out about him through the entire region around.
And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
And he came to Nazareth, where he was brought up. And according to that which was customary to him, he entered into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up to read.
And the book of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. And having opened the book, he found the place where it was written,
The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to heal the broken hearted, to proclaim deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to sent forth in deliverance those who have been broken,
to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord.
And having closed the book, having given it back to the attendant, he sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were focused on him.
And he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your ears.
And all witnessed to him, and wondered at the words of grace that proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is this not the son of Joseph?
And he said to them, Ye will doubtless say to me this proverb: Physician, heal thyself. How many things we heard that happened at Capernaum, do also here in thy fatherland.
And he said, Truly I say to you, that not one prophet is acceptable in his fatherland.
But in truth I say to you, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months, when a great famine occurred on all the land.
And Elijah was sent to none of them, except to Zarephath, to a widow woman of Sidon.
And many lepers were in Israel near Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, except Naaman the Syrian.
And all in the synagogue were filled with rage, having heard these things.
And having risen up, they thrust him outside of the city, and brought him as far as the brow of the hill on which their city had been built, in order to throw him down headlong.
But he, having passed through the midst of them, departed.
And he came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the sabbath day,
and they were astonished at his teaching, for his word was with authority.
And in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean deity. And it cried out in a great voice, saying,
Oh no! What is with us and with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? Did thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou are, the Holy man of God.
And Jesus rebuked it, saying, Be thou muzzled, and come out of him. And the demon having thrown him down in the midst, it came out of him, not having harm him.
And amazement developed in all, and they spoke among each other, saying, What is this word? Because with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out.
And a report about him went forth into every place of the region around.
And having arisen from the synagogue, he entered into the house of Simon. And Simon's mother-in-law was gripped by a great fever, and they besought him about her.
And having stood over her, he rebuked the fever. And it left her, and immediately after rising up, she served them.
And when the sun was setting, all, as many as had those who were incapacitated with various diseases, brought them to him. And having laid his hands on each one of them, he healed them.
And also demons came out from many, crying out, and saying, Thou are the Christ, the Son of God. And rebuking them, he did not allow them to speak, because they knew him to be the Christ.
And when it became day, having departed, he went to a desolate place. And the multitudes sought him, and they came to him, and were restraining him not depart from them.
But he said to them, I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because I was sent for this.
And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.