Praise yee the Lord, because he is good: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Let Israel now say, That his mercy endureth for euer.
Let the house of Aaron nowe say, That his mercy endureth for euer.
Let them, that feare the Lord, nowe say, That his mercie endureth for euer.
I called vpon the Lord in trouble, and the Lord heard me, and set me at large.
The Lord is with mee: therefore I will not feare what man can doe vnto me.
The Lord is with mee among them that helpe me: therefore shall I see my desire vpon mine enemies.
It is better to trust in the Lord, then to haue confidence in man.
It is better to trust in the Lord, then to haue confidence in princes.
All nations haue compassed me: but in the Name of the Lord shall I destroy them.
They haue compassed mee, yea, they haue compassed mee: but in the Name of the Lord I shall destroy them.
They came about mee like bees, but they were quenched as a fire of thornes: for in the Name of the Lord I shall destroy them.
Thou hast thrust sore at me, that I might fall: but the Lord hath holpen me.
The Lord is my strength and song: for he hath beene my deliuerance.
The voice of ioy and deliuerance shall be in the tabernacles of the righteous, saying, The right hand of the Lord hath done valiantly.
The right hand of the Lord is exalted: the right hand of the Lord hath done valiantly.
I shall not die, but liue, and declare the woorkes of the Lord.
The Lord hath chastened me sore, but he hath not deliuered me to death.
Open ye vnto me the gates of righteousnes, that I may goe into them, and praise the Lord.
This is the gate of the Lord: the righteous shall enter into it.
I will praise thee: for thou hast heard mee, and hast beene my deliuerance.
The stone, which the builders refused, is the head of the corner.
This was the Lordes doing, and it is marueilous in our eyes.
This is the day, which the Lord hath made: let vs reioyce and be glad in it.
O Lord, I praie thee, saue now: O Lord, I praie thee nowe giue prosperitie.
Blessed be he, that commeth in the Name of the Lord: wee haue blessed you out of the house of the Lord.
The Lord is mightie, and hath giuen vs light: binde the sacrifice with cordes vnto the hornes of the altar.
Thou art my God, and I will praise thee, euen my God: therefore I will exalt thee.
Praise ye the Lord, because he is good: for his mercie endureth for euer.