And rising up from there, He came into the borders of Judea by the other side of the Jordan. And again crowds came together to Him, and as He usually did, He again taught them.
And coming near, the Pharisees asked Him if it is lawful for a man to put away a wife, testing Him.
But answering, He said to them, What did Moses command you?
And they said, Moses allowed "to write a bill of divorce, and to put away." Deut. 24:1
And answering, Jesus said to them, With respect to your hardheartedness he wrote this command to you.
But from the beginning of creation "God made them male and female." Gen. 1:27
"Because of this, a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife,
and the two shall be one flesh;" so that they no longer are two, but one flesh. Gen. 2:24
Therefore, what God yoked together, let not man put apart.
And again, in the house His disciples asked Him about the same.
And He said to them, Whoever shall puts away his wife and marries another commits adultery against her.
And if a woman puts away her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.
And they brought children to Him, that He might touch them. But the disciples rebuked those carrying them .
But seeing, Jesus was indignant. And He said to them, Allow the children to come to Me, and do not hinder them. For of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, Whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a child may in no way enter into it.
And having taken them in His arms, laying hands on them, He blessed them.
And He having gone out into the highway, running up and kneeling down to Him, one questioned Him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
But Jesus said to him, Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One, God.
You know the commandments: Do not commit adultery, do not commit murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother. Ex. 20:12-16
And answering, he said to Him, Teacher, I observed all these from my youth.
And looking at him, Jesus loved him, and said to him, One thing is lacking to you. Go, sell what things you have, and give to the poor. And you will have treasure in Heaven. And come, follow Me, taking up the cross.
But being sad at the word, he went away grieving; for he had many possessions.
And looking around, Jesus said to His disciples, How hardly those having riches will enter into the kingdom of God!
And the disciples were astonished at His words. And answering again, Jesus said to them, Children, how hard it is for those trusting on riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of the needle, than for a rich one to enter into the kingdom of God.
And they were exceedingly astonished, saying to themselves, And who is able to be saved?
But looking at them, Jesus said, From men it is impossible, but not from God. For all things are possible from God.
And Peter began to say to Him, Behold, we left all and followed You.
But answering, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, There is no one who forsook house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for My sake and the gospel,
that will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children, and lands, with persecutions; and in the coming age, eternal life.
But many first shall be last, and the last shall be first.
And they were in the highway, going up to Jerusalem. And Jesus was going before them, and following they were astonished and were afraid. And taking the Twelve again, He began to tell them the things about to happen to Him:
Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes. And they will condemn Him to death and will betray Him to the nations.
And they will mock Him and will flog Him and will spit at Him, and will kill Him. And on the third day He will rise again.
And coming up to Him, James and John, the sons of Zebedee, said, Teacher, we desire that whatever we may ask You would do for us.
And He said to them, What do you desire for Me to do for you?
And they said to Him, Give us that we may sit one off the right of You and one off the left of You in Your glory.
But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup which I drink, and to be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with ?
And they said to Him, We are able. But Jesus said to them, Indeed you will drink the cup which I drink, and you will be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized.
But to sit off My right and off My left is not Mine to give, but for whom it has been prepared.
And hearing, the ten began to be indignant about James and John.
But having called them near, Jesus said to them, You know that those seeming to rule the nations lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
But it shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant.
And whoever of you desires to become first, he shall be slave of all.
For even the Son of man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many.
And they came to Jericho. And He and His disciples and a large crowd going out from Jericho, a son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus the blind, sat beside the highway begging.
And hearing that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and to say, Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me!
And many warned him that he be quiet. But he much more cried out, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And standing still, Jesus said for him to be called. And they called the blind one , saying to him, Be comforted, rise up, He calls you.
And throwing away his garment, rising up, he came to Jesus.
And answering, Jesus said to him, What do you desire I should do to you? And the blind one said to Him, My Lord, that I may see again.
And Jesus said to him, Go, your faith has healed you. And instantly he saw again, and followed Jesus in the highway.