Now, the serpent, was more crafty than any living thing of the field which Yahweh God had made, so he said unto the woman, Can it really be that God hath said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?
And the woman said unto the serpent,—Of the fruit of the trees of the garden, we may eat;
but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said Ye shall not eat of it neither shall ye touch it,—lest ye die.
And the serpent said unto the woman,—Ye shall not die,
For God doth know, that in the day ye eat thereof, then shall your eyes be opened,—and ye shall become like God, knowing good and evil.
And, when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was desirable to the eyes and the tree was pleasant to make one knowing, then took she of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and she gave to her husband also, along with her, and he did eat.
Then were opened the eyes of them both, and they knew that, naked, they were,—so they tacked together fig-leaves, and made for themselves girdles,
Then heard they the sound of Yahweh God, walking to and fro in the garden at the breeze of the day,—so he hid himself—the man with his wife, from the face of Yahweh God, amid the trees of the garden.
And Yahweh God called unto the man,—and said to him, Where art thou?
And he said, The sound of thee, heard I in the garden, and I was afraid, for, naked, was I, so I hid myself.
And he said, Who told thee that, naked, thou wast? Of the tree whereof I commanded thee not to eat, hast thou eaten?
And the man said,—The woman whom thou didst put with me, she, gave me of the tree, so I did eat.
Then said Yahweh God to the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, the serpent, deceived me, so I did eat.
Then said Yahweh God unto the serpent—Because thou hast done this, Accursed, art thou above every tame-beast, and above every wild-beast of the field,—on thy belly, shalt thou go, and dust, shalt thou eat all the days of thy life.
And enmity, will I put between thee, and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed,—He shall crush thy head, but, thou, shalt crush his heel.
Unto the woman, he said, I will, increase, thy pain of pregnancy, In pain, shalt thou bear children,—Yet, unto thy husband, shall be thy longing, Though, he, rule over thee.
And, to the man, he said, Because thou didst hearken to the voice of thy wife, and so didst eat of the tree as to which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it, Accursed be the ground for thy sake, In pain, shalt thou eat of it, all the days of thy life;
Thorn also and thistle, shall it shoot forth to thee,—when thou hast come to eat of the herb of the field:
In the sweat of thy face, shalt thou eat bread, until thou return to the ground, because therefrom, wast thou taken,—For, dust, thou art, And, unto dust, shalt thou return.
So the man called the name of his wife, Eve,—in that, she, was made mother of every one living.
And Yahweh God made for the man—and for his wife—tunics of skin and clothed them.
Then said Yahweh God—Lo! man, hath become like one of us, in respect of knowing good and evil,—Now, therefore, lest he thrust forth his hand, and take even of the tree of life, and eat, and live to times age-abiding,—
So Yahweh God put him forth from the garden of Eden,—to till the ground wherefrom he had been taken.
So he expelled the man,—and caused to dwell—in front of the garden of Eden—cherubim and a brandishing sword—flame, to keep the way to the tree of life.