To the angel of the church in Ephesus, write: These things says he that holds the seven stars in his right hand, that walks in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks;
I know your works, and your labor, and your patience; and that you can not bear with those who are evil, and that you have tried those who say they are apostles, and are not, and have found them liars;
and that you have patience, and have endured for my name’s sake, and have not fainted.
But I have this against you, that you have left your first love.
Remember, therefore, whence you have fallen, and repent, and do your first works; if not, I will come to you quickly, and I will remove your candlestick from its place, unless you repent.
But you have this, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.
He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches: To him that overcomes, I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.
And to the angel of the church in Smyrna, write: These things says the First and the Last, who was dead, and is alive:
I know your works, and your affliction, and your poverty, (but you are rich,) and the impious words of those who say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan.
Fear none of the things which you are about to suffer; behold, the devil will throw some of you into prison, that you may be tried: and you shall have affliction ten days. Be faithful till death, and I will give you the crown of life.
He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He that overcomes shall not be hurt by the second death.
And to the angel of the church in Pergamos, write: These things says he that has the sharp, two-edged sword;
I know your works, and where you dwell, even where the throne of Satan is: and yet you hold fast my name, and have not denied my faith, even in those days in which Antipas was my faithful witness, who was slain among you, where Satan dwells.
Yet I have a few things against you, that you have there those who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling-block before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to practice lewdness.
So, also, you have those who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitanes.
Repent, therefore; if not, I will come to you quickly, and I will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him that overcomes, I will give of the hidden manna; and I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he that receives it.
And to the angel of the church in Thyatira, write: These things, says the Son of God, who has his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet like fine brass;
I know your works, and your love, and your faith, and your service, and your patience, and your works, the last greater than the first.
But I have against you that you suffer that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and teaches and deceives my servants to practice lewdness, and to eat things sacrificed to idols.
And I have given her time to repent; and she will not repent of her lewdness.
Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her into great affliction, unless they repent of their deeds.
And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches shall know that I am he that searches the reins and the hearts: and I will give to every one of you according to your works.
But I say to you, the rest who are in Thyatira, as many as have not this teaching, and who have not known the depths of Satan, (as they call them,) I will lay on you no other burden:
but what you have, hold fast till I come.
And to him that overcomes, and keeps my works to the end, will I give authority over the nations;
and he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken in pieces, as I have received from my Father:
and I will give him the morning star.
He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.