The word which came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, when king Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchijah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, saying,
Inquire, I pray thee, of Jehovah for us. For Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon makes war against us. Perhaps Jehovah will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that he may go up from us.
Then Jeremiah said to them, Thus ye shall say to Zedekiah:
Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel: Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, with which ye fight against the king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans who besiege you, outside the walls. And I will gather them into the midst of this city.
And I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a strong arm, even in anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation.
And I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast. They shall die of a great pestilence.
And afterward, says Jehovah, I will deliver Zedekiah king of Judah, and his servants, and the people, even such as are left in this city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life, and he shall smite them with the edge of the sword. He shall not spare them, nor have pity, nor have mercy.
And thou shall say to this people, Thus says Jehovah: Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death.
He who abides in this city shall die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence. But he who goes out, and passes over to the Chaldeans who besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall be to him for a prey.
For I have set my face upon this city for evil, and not for good, says Jehovah. It shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
And concerning the house of the king of Judah, hear ye the word of Jehovah.
O house of David, thus says Jehovah: Execute justice in the morning, and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.
Behold, I am against thee, O inhabitant of the valley, and of the rock of the plain, says Jehovah, you who say, Who shall come down against us? Or who shall enter into our habitations?
And I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, says Jehovah. And I will kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all that is round about her.