And having risen from there, he comes into the borders of Judea through the other side of the Jordan. And multitudes come together to him again, and, as he has practiced, he taught them again.
And the Pharisees having approached, they demanded of him if it is permitted for a man to divorce a wife, testing him.
And having answered, he said to them, What did Moses command you?
And they said, Moses permitted to write a document of divorce, and to divorce her.
But having answered, Jesus said to them, For your hard heart he wrote for you this commandment.
But from the beginning of creation God made them male and female.
Because of this a man will leave his father and mother behind, and will be bonded with his wife,
and the two will be in one flesh. So then they are no more two, but one flesh.
What therefore God has joined together, no man shall separate.
And in the house the disciples questioned him again about the same thing.
And he says to them, Whoever may divorce his wife, and will marry another, commits adultery against her.
And if a woman should divorce her husband, and will be married to another, she commits adultery.
And they brought children to him, so that he would touch them. And the disciples rebuked those who were bringing them.
But when Jesus saw it, he was displeased, and said to them, Allow the children to come to me. Forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say to you, whoever will not receive the kingdom of God as a child, he will, no, not enter it.
And having embraced them, while laying his hands upon them, he blessed them.
And as he was going forth on the way, one man having ran to him, and having knelt to him, questioned him, Good teacher, what should I do that I may inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said to him, Why do thou call me good? None is good except one, God.
Thou know the commandments. Thou shall not commit adultery. Thou shall not murder. Thou shall not steal. Thou shall not testify falsely. Thou shall not defraud. Thou shall honor thy father and mother.
And having answered, he said to him, Teacher, all these things I have observed from my youth.
And having looked at him, Jesus loved him, and said to him, One thing thou lack. Go thou, sell as many things as thou have, and give to the poor, and thou will have treasure in heaven. And after taking up the cross, come, follow me.
But having become somber at the saying, he went away sorrowing, for he was a man who has many possessions.
And Jesus having looked around, he says to his disciples, How difficultly those who have riches will enter into the kingdom of God.
And the disciples were astonished at his words. But again having answered, Jesus says to them, Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God.
It is easier for a camel to go through the hole of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And they were exceedingly astonished, saying among themselves, Then who can be saved?
And having looked at them, Jesus says, With men, impossible, but not with God. For with God all things are possible.
Peter began to say to him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee.
And having answered, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, there is no man who has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, because of me, and because of the good news,
but he will receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands-with persecutions-and in the coming age, eternal life.
But many first will be last, and the last first.
And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going ahead of them. And they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And again having summoned the twelve, he began to tell them the things that were going to happen to him.
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. And the Son of man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scholars. And they will condemn him to death, and will deliver him to the Gentiles.
And they will mock him, and will scourge, and will spit upon him, and will kill him. And the third day he will rise.
And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come to him, saying, Teacher, we wish that thou would do for us whatever we ask.
And he said to them, What do ye want me to do for you?
And they said to him, Grant to us that we may sit, one at thy right hand, and one at thy left hand, in thy glory.
But Jesus said to them, Ye know not what ye are asking. Are ye able to drink the cup that I drink? And to be immersed the immersion that I am immersed?
And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, Ye will indeed drink the cup that I drink, and the immersion that I am immersed ye will be immersed.
But to sit at my right hand or at my left hand is not mine to give, but for whom it has been prepared.
And when the ten heard it they began to indignant about James and John.
And having summoned them, Jesus says to them, Ye know that those who presume to rule over the Gentiles, lord over them, and their great men have power over them.
But it is not so among you. Instead, whoever may want to become great among you, will be your helper,
and whoever of you may want to become first, will be a bondman of all.
For the Son of man also came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.
And they come to Jericho. And as he went out from Jericho, and his disciples and a considerable crowd, Bartimaeus, the blind son of Timaeus, was sitting by the road begging.
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, be merciful to me.
And many rebuked him, that he would be quiet, but he cried out much more, Thou son of David, be merciful to me.
And having stood still, Jesus said for him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying to him, Cheer up. Arise, he calls thee.
And he, having thrown off his garment, having risen, came to Jesus.
And having answered, Jesus says to him, What do thou want I would do to thee? And the blind man said to him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said to him, Go thou, thy faith has healed thee. And straightaway he received his sight, and followed him on the way.