So says Jehovah to the sons of Ammon: Has Israel no sons? Or has he no heir? Why does their king inherit Gad, and his people dwell in its cities?
So, behold, the days come, declares Jehovah, that I will cause a shout of war to be heard in Rabbah of the sons of Ammon. And it shall be a heap, a ruin, and her daughter villages shall be burned with fire. Then Israel shall inherit his inheritance, says Jehovah.
Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is spoiled! Cry, daughters of Rabbah, gird yourselves with sackcloth; mourn, and run to and fro in the walls. For their king shall go into exile, his priests and his rulers together.
Why do you glory in your valleys, your flowing valley, O backsliding daughter? She trusted in her treasures, saying , Who shall come to me?
Behold, I will bring a dread on you, declares Jehovah of Hosts, from all those who are around you. And you shall be driven out, each man before him. And there shall be none to gather up the runaways.
And after this I will bring again the prisoners of the sons of Ammon, declares Jehovah.
So says Jehovah of hosts concerning Edom: Is wisdom no more in Teman? Has counsel perished from the prudent? Has their wisdom vanished?
Flee, turn back, go deep to dwell, O people of Dedan. For I will bring the calamity of Esau on him in the time I will visit him.
If the grape gatherers come to you, would they not leave gleanings? If thieves come by night, will they ruin more than enough for them?
But I have stripped Esau, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself. His seed is ravaged, also his brothers and his neighbors, and he is not.
Leave your orphans, I will keep them alive. And let your widows trust in Me.
For so says Jehovah: Behold, those whose judgment was not to drink of the cup have surely drunk. And are you to be entirely acquitted? You shall not be acquitted, but you shall surely drink.
For I have sworn by Myself, declares Jehovah, that Bozrah shall become a ruin, a reproach, a waste, and a curse. And all its cities shall be wastes forever.
I have heard a message from Jehovah, and a herald is sent to the nations: Gather together and come against her, and rise up to the battle.
For, behold, I will make you small among the nations, despised among men.
Your fearfulness has deceived you, the pride of your heart, you who live in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill. Though you should make your nest as high as the eagle, I will bring you down from there, declares Jehovah.
And Edom shall be a ruin, everyone who goes by it shall be amazed and shall hiss at all its plagues.
As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, and its neighbor, declares Jehovah, no man shall remain there, a son of man shall not live in it.
Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan against the home of the strong. But I will suddenly make him run away from it. And who is the chosen one I shall appoint over it? For who is like Me? And who will summon Me? And who then is a shepherd who will stand before Me?
So then, hear the counsel of Jehovah which He has planned against Edom, and His purposes which He has purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall drag them, the least of the flock. Surely He shall make their dwellings desolate over them.
The earth is shaken at the noise of their fall. When they cried, the noise of it was heard in the Sea of Reeds.
Behold, he shall come up and fly like the eagle and spread his wings over Bozrah. And at that day the heart of the mighty men of Edom shall be like the heart of a woman in her pangs.
Concerning Damascus: Hamath and Arpad are put to shame, for they have heard bad news, they are melted; anxiety is in the sea, it cannot be quiet.
Damascus has become feeble; she has turned to flee, and trembling has seized her ; anguish and sorrows have taken her like a woman in labor.
How is the city of praise not forsaken, the city of my joy!
So her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be silenced in that day, says Jehovah of Hosts.
And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus; and it shall burn up the palaces of Ben-hadad.
So says Jehovah concerning Kedar, and concerning the kingdoms of Hazor which Nebu-chadnezzar, the king of Babylon, struck: Rise up, go up to Kedar, and strip the sons of the east.
They shall take their tents and their flocks. They shall take their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels, to themselves. And they shall cry to them, Fear is all around.
Flee, go far away, go deep to dwell, O inhabitants of Hazor, declares Jehovah. For Nebu-chadnezzar, the king of Babylon, has taken counsel against you, and has plotted a scheme against you.
Rise up, go up to the nation at ease, who dwells securely, declares Jehovah; neither gates nor bars are on it, and they dwell alone.
And their camels shall be a prize, and the multitude of their cattle a prey. And I will scatter them to all winds, those who cut the corners. And I will bring their calamity from all sides of it, says Jehovah.
And Hazor shall be a dwelling for jackals, a ruin forever. No man shall live there, nor any son of man stay in it.
The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah the prophet against Elam in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, saying,
So says Jehovah of Hosts, Behold I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.
And I will bring the four winds from the four ends of the heavens on Elam, and will scatter them toward all those winds. And there shall be no nation where the outcasts of Elam shall not come.
And I will cause Elam to be afraid before their enemies and before those seeking their life. And I will bring evil on them, the burning of My anger, declares Jehovah. And I will send the sword after them until I have destroyed them.
And I will set My throne in Elam, and I will destroy the king and the rulers from there, declares Jehovah.
But it shall happen in the latter days; I will bring again the exile of Elam, declares Jehovah.