In you, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in your righteousness.
Bow down your ear to me; deliver me speedily: be you my strong rock, for an house of defence to save me.
For you are my rock and my fortress; therefore for your name's sake lead me, and guide me.
Pull me out of the net that they have laid privately for me: for you are my strength.
Into your hand I commit my spirit: you have redeemed me, O LORD God of truth.
I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the LORD.
I will be glad and rejoice in your mercy: for you have considered my trouble; you have known my soul in adversities;
And have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: you have set my feet in a large room.
Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength fails because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.
I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me.
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.
For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life.
But I trusted in you, O LORD: I said, You are my God.
My times are in your hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.
Make your face to shine upon your servant: save me for your mercies' sake.
Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon you: let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.
Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.
Oh how great is your goodness, which you have laid up for them that fear you; which you have wrought for them that trust in you before the sons of men!
You shall hide them in the secret of your presence from the pride of man: you shall keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be the LORD: for he has showed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city.
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before your eyes: nevertheless you heard the voice of my supplications when I cried unto you.
O love the LORD, all you his saints: for the LORD perserves the faithful, and plentifully rewards the proud doer.
Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all you that hope in the LORD.