And certain ones who came down from Judea taught the brothers, saying, Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.
Therefore dissension and not a little disputation occurring by Paul and Barnabas, they appointed Paul and Barnabas and certain others of them to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders about this question.
And indeed being set forward by the church, they passed through Phoenicia and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the nations. And they caused great joy to all the brothers.
And arriving in Jerusalem, they were received by the church, and by the apostles and elders. And they declared all things that God had done with them.
But some of those from the sect of the Pharisees, having believed, rose up, saying, It was necessary to circumcise them and to command them to keep the law of Moses.
And the apostles and elders were assembled to see about this matter.
And after much disputing, Peter rose up and said to them, Men, brothers, you recognize that from ancient days God chose among us that through my mouth the nations should hear the word of the gospel, and believe.
And God, who knows the hearts, bore them witness, giving them the Holy Spirit even as to us.
And He put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Now therefore why do you tempt God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples, a yoke which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved, according to which manner they also believed.
And all the multitude kept silent and listened to Barnabas and Paul declaring what miracles and wonders God had worked among the nations through them.
And after they were silent, James answered, saying, Men, brothers, listen to me.
Even as Simon has declared how God at the first visited the nations to take out of them a people for His name.
And the words of the prophets agree to this; as it is written,
"After this I will return and will build again the tabernacle of David which has fallen down; and I will build again its ruins, and I will set it up,
so those men who are left might seek after the Lord, and all the nations on whom My name has been called, says the Lord, who does all these things."
All His works are known to God from eternity.
Therefore my judgment is that we do not trouble those who have turned to God from among the nations,
but that we write to them that they should abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.
For Moses from ages past has those in every city proclaiming him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.
Then it pleased the apostles and elders, with the whole church, to send chosen men from them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; Judas, whose last name was Barsabas; and Silas, chief men among the brothers.
And they wrote these things by their hand: The apostles and elders and brothers send greeting to the brothers, from the nations in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia.
Because we have heard that certain ones who went out from us have troubled you with words, unsettling your souls, saying, Be circumcised and keep the law! (to whom we gave no such command);
it seemed good to us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have given up their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who will also announce to you the same things by word.
For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these necessary things:
that you abstain from meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication; from which, if you keep yourselves, you shall do well. Be prospered.
Then indeed they being let go, they came to Antioch. And gathering the multitude, they delivered the letter.
And when they had read it, they rejoiced at the comfort.
And Judas and Silas, also being prophets themselves, exhorted the brothers with many words and confirmed them.
And remaining for a time, they were let go in peace from the brothers to the apostles.
But it pleased Silas to remain there.
Also Paul and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching the gospel, the Word of the Lord, with many others also.
And some days afterward, Paul said to Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brothers in every city where we have announced the Word of the Lord, how they are doing.
And Barnabas determined to take with them John, he being called Mark.
But Paul thought it well not to take that one with them, he having withdrawn form them from Pamphylia, and did not go with them to the work.
Then there was sharp feeling, as to separate them from each other. And taking Mark, Barnabas sailed to Cyprus.
But choosing Silas, Paul went out, being commended by the brothers to the grace of God,
passing through Syria and Cilicia, making the churches strong.