SO when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with unanimity assembled together.
And there came suddenly from heaven a sound as it were of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
And there was an appearance to them of divided tongues, as of fire, and it rested on every one of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them power to express themselves.
Now there were dwelling at Jerusalem, Jews, men of piety, from every nation under heaven.
And when this report spread, the multitude collected around them, and were overwhelmed with astonishment, because they heard them speaking every one in his own peculiar dialect.
And they were all amazed, and wondered, saying one to another, Are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
And how do we hear every man in our own peculiar dialect, in which from our birth we were brought up?
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and they who inhabit Mesopotamia, and Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia,
and Phrygia, and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Lybia adjoining Cyrene, and the sojourners, who are Romans, both Jews and proselytes,
Cretans and Arabians, we hear them speaking in our own several tongues the marvellous things of God.
And they were all amazed, and much perplexed, and knew not what to think, saying one to another, What can this mean?
But others scoffing said, These men are brimful of sweet wine.
But Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice, and addressed them; Men of Judea, and all ye who dwell at Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen to my words:
for these men are not, as ye suppose, drunk, for it is only the third hour of the day.
But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel;
“And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour our of my spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams:
and upon my servants and my handmaidens in those days will I pour out of my spirit; and they shall prophesy:
and I will perform prodigies in the heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke.
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and illustrious day of the Lord come.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the Lord shall be saved.”
Men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus the Nazarean, a man from God, pointed out to you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as yourselves also know:
him, by the destined counsel and foreknowledge of God delivered up, ye have seized, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain:
whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: forasmuch as it was not possible that he should be held thereby.
For David speaketh concerning him, “I have seen the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand, that I might not be shaken:
therefore is my heart full of joy, and my tongue hath exulted; and still shall my flesh also repose in hope,
that thou wilt not leave my soul in the mansion of the dead, nor permit that Holy One of thine to see corruption.
Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt fill me with delight by thy countenance.”
Men and brethren, permit me to speak with freedom to you concerning the patriarch David, that he hath been both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us to this day.
Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn to him with an oath, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up the Messiah to sit upon his throne;
he, foreseeing this, spake of the resurrection of the Messiah, that his soul should not be left in the mansion of the dead, and that his flesh should not see corruption.
This very Jesus hath God raised up, of which we all are witnesses.
He therefore being exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, hath poured out this, which ye now see and hear.
For David is not ascended into the heavens: for he saith himself, “The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit on my right hand,
until I make thine enemies a footstool for thy feet.”
Let all the house of Israel therefore know assuredly, that God hath made him Lord and Messiah, even that very Jesus whom ye crucified.
Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart, and said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do?
Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptised every one of you into the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off; even as many as the Lord our God shall call.
And with many other words he testified and exhorted, saying, Be saved from this untoward generation.
They therefore who gladly received his discourse were baptised: and there were added to them that day about three thousand souls.
And they persevered stedfastly in the doctrine of the apostles, and in communion, and in breaking bread, and in prayers.
And on every soul there was an awe: and many miracles and signs were done by the apostles.
Now all who believed were together, and had all things common;
and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all, as every one had need.
And daily continuing with one mind at the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they partook of their food with great joy and simplicity of heart,
praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added the saved ones daily to the church.