And Jacob lifted his feet and went to the land of the sons of the east.
And he looked, and behold, a well was in the field! And, lo, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it, for they watered the flocks out of that well. And a great stone was upon the well's mouth.
And all the flocks were gathered there. And they rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in its place.
And Jacob said to them, My brothers, where are you from? And they said, We are from Haran.
And he said to them, Do you know Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him.
And he said to them, Is he well? And they said, He is well. And, behold, his daughter Rachel comes with the sheep.
And he said, Lo, the day is yet high. It is not yet time for gathering the cattle together. Water the sheep, and go feed them.
And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks have been gathered together. And they roll the stone from the well's mouth, then we water the sheep.
While he still spoke with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, for she kept them.
And it happened when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, then Jacob went near and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flocks of Laban his mother's brother.
And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice and wept.
And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebekah's son. And she ran and told her father.
And it happened when Laban heard the news of Jacob his sister's son, he ran to meet him and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.
And Laban said to him, Surely you are my bone and my flesh. And he stayed with him for a month.
And Laban said to Jacob, Because you are my brother, should you then serve me for nothing? Tell me, what shall be your wages?
And Laban had two daughters. The name of the oldest was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
And Leah was weak of eyes, but Rachel was beautiful and well-favored.
And Jacob loved Rachel, and said, I will serve you seven years for Rachel your younger daughter.
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to you than that I should give her to another man. Stay with me.
And Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him a few days, for the love he had for her.
And Jacob said to Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, so that I may go in to her.
And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
And it happened in the evening, he took his daughter Leah and brought her to him. And he went in to her.
And Laban gave Zilpah his slave woman to his daughter Leah for a handmaid.
And it happened in the morning, behold, it was Leah! And he said to Laban, What is this you have done to me? Did I not serve with you for Rachel? Why then have you tricked me?
And Laban said, It must not be done so in our country, to give the younger before the first-born.
Fulfill her week, and we will give you this one also for the service which you shall serve with me still another seven years.
And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week. And he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also.
And Laban gave Bilhah his slave woman to his daughter Rachel, to be her handmaid.
And he also went in to Rachel. He also loved Rachel more than Leah, and served with him still seven more years.
And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, even He opened her womb. But Rachel was barren.
And Leah conceived and bore a son. And she called his name Reuben, for she said, Surely the LORD has looked upon my afflictions. Now therefore my husband will love me.
And she conceived again, and bore a son, and said, Because the LORD has heard that I was hated, He has therefore given me this son also. And she called his name Simeon.
And she conceived again, and bore a son, and said, Now this time my husband will return to me, because I have borne him three sons. Therefore his name was called Levi.
And she conceived again, and bore a son; and she said, This time I will praise the LORD. Therefore she called his name Judah, and quit bearing.