Better is the poor who walks in his simplicity, than the rich who twists his lips and is unwise.
Where there is no knowledge of the soul, there is no good. And whoever hurries with his feet will stumble.
The foolishness of a man undermines his steps. And then he seethes in his soul against God.
Riches add many friends. But from the pauper, even those whom he had become separated.
A false witness shall not go unpunished. And whoever speaks lies will not escape.
Many honor the character of one who is powerful, and there are friends for a giver of gifts.
The brothers of the poor man hate him. Moreover, even his friends have withdrawn far from him. Whoever pursues only words shall have nothing.
But whoever possesses reason loves his own soul. And one who guards prudence shall discover good things.
A false witness shall not go unpunished. And whoever speaks lies will perish.
Fine things are not fitting for the foolish, nor is it fitting for a servant to rule over princes.
The doctrine of a man is known through patience. And his glory is to pass beyond iniquities.
Like the roaring of a lion, so also is the wrath of a king. And his cheerfulness is like the dew upon the grass.
A foolish son is the grief of his father. And an argumentative wife is like a roof that is continually leaking.
A house and its riches are given by parents. But a prudent wife is particularly from the Lord.
Laziness sends one into a deep sleep, and a dissolute soul will go hungry.
Whoever guards a commandment guards his own soul. But whoever neglects his own way will die.
Whoever is merciful to the poor lends to the Lord. And he will repay him for his efforts.
Teach your son; do not despair. But do not set your soul toward putting him to death.
Whoever is impatient will sustain damage. And when it has been taken away, he will set up another.
Listen to counsel and take up discipline, so that you may be wise in your latter days.
There are many intentions in the heart of a man. But the will of the Lord shall stand firm.
An indigent man is merciful. And a pauper is better than a deceitful man.
The fear of the Lord is unto life. And he shall linger in plentitude, without being visited by disaster.
The lazy conceals his hand under his arm, and he will not so much as bring it to his mouth.
When the pestilent are scourged, the foolish will become wiser. But if you chastise the wise, he will understand discipline.
Whoever afflicts his father and flees from his mother is disreputable and unhappy.
Son, do not cease listening to doctrine, and do not be ignorant of the sermons of knowledge.
An unjust witness ridicules judgment. And the mouth of the impious devours iniquity.
Judgments are prepared for those who ridicule. And striking hammers are prepared for the bodies of the foolish.