When we had torn ourselves away and had set sail, we ran before the wind to Cos; the next day we came to Rhodes, and from there to Patara,
where we found a ship crossing to Phoenicia, and went on board and set sail.
After sighting Cyprus and leaving it on the left, we sailed to Syria, and put into Tyre, where the ship was to discharge her cargo.
There we found the disciples and stayed a week with them. Speaking under the influence of the Spirit, they warned Paul not to set foot in Jerusalem.
However, when we had come to the end of our visit, we went on our way, all the disciples with their wives and children escorting us out of the city. We knelt down on the beach, and prayed,
and then said goodbye to one another; after which we went on board, and they returned home.
After we had made the run from Tyre, we landed at Ptolemais, and exchanged greetings with the followers there, and spent a day with them.
The next day we left, and reached Caesarea, where we went to the house of Philip, the missionary, who was one of ‘the Seven,’ and stayed with him.
He had four unmarried daughters, who had the gift of prophecy.
During our visit, which lasted several days, a prophet, named Agabus, came down from Judea.
He came to see us, and, taking Paul’s girdle, and binding his own feet and hands with it, said: “This is what the Holy Spirit says — ‘The man to whom this girdle belongs will be bound like this by the religious authorities in Jerusalem, and they will give him up to the Gentiles’.”
When we heard that, we and the people of the place began to entreat Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.
It was then that Paul made the reply: “Why are you weeping and breaking my heart like this? For my part, I am ready not only to be bound, but even to suffer death at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.”
So, as he would not be persuaded, we said no more to him, only adding — “The Lord’s will be done.”
At the end of our visit, we made our preparations, and started on our way up to Jerusalem.
Some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us, and brought Mnason with them, a Cypriot disciple of long standing, with whom we were to stay.
On our arrival at Jerusalem, the followers of the Lord there gave us a hearty welcome;
and the next day Paul went with us to see James, and all the officers of the church were present.
After greeting them, Paul related in detail all that God had done among the Gentiles through his efforts;
and, when they had heard it, they began praising God, and said to Paul:  “You see, brother, that those of our people who have become believers in Christ may be numbered by tens of thousands, and they are all naturally earnest in upholding the Jewish law.
Now they have heard it said about you, that you teach all of our people in foreign countries to forsake Moses, for you tell them not to circumcise their children or even to observe Jewish customs.
Well now, as they are certain to hear of your arrival, do what we are going to suggest.
We have four men here, who have of their own accord put themselves under a vow.
Join these men, share their purification, and bear their expenses, so that they may shave their heads; and then all will see that there is no truth in what they have been told about you, but that, on the contrary, you yourself rule your life in obedience to the Jewish law.
As to the Gentiles who have become believers in Christ, we have sent our decision that they should avoid food offered to idols, and blood, and the flesh of strangled animals, and impurity.”
Paul joined the men, and the next day shared their purification, and went into the Temple, and gave notice of the expiration of the period of purification when the usual offering should have been made on behalf of each of them.
But, just as the seven days were drawing to a close, some of the Jewish people from Roman Asia caught sight of Paul in the Temple, and caused great excitement among all the people present, by seizing Paul and shouting:
“People of Israel! Help! This is the man who teaches everyone everywhere against our people, our law, and this place; and, what is more, he has actually brought Greeks into the Temple and defiled this sacred place.”
(For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian in Paul’s company in the city, and were under the belief that Paul had taken him into the Temple.)
The whole city was stirred, and the people quickly collected, seized Paul, and dragged him out of the Temple, when the doors were immediately shut.
They were bent on killing him, when it was reported to the officer commanding the garrison, that all Jerusalem was in commotion.
He instantly got together some officers and soldiers, and charged down on the crowd, who, when they saw the commanding officer and his soldiers, stopped beating Paul.
Then he went up to Paul, arrested him, ordered him to be doubly chained, and proceeded to inquire who he was, and what he had been doing.
Some of the crowd said one thing, and some another; and, as he could get no definite reply because of the uproar, he ordered Paul to be taken into the barracks.
When Paul reached the steps, he was actually being carried by the soldiers, owing to the violence of the mob;
for the people were following in a mass, shouting out: “Kill him!”
Just as he was about to be taken into the Fort, Paul said to the commanding officer: “May I speak to you?”   “Do you know Greek?” asked the commanding officer.
“Are not you, then, the Egyptian who some time ago raised an insurrection and led the four thousand Bandits out into the wilderness?”
“No,” said Paul, “I am a Jew of Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of a city of some note; and I beg you to give me permission to speak to the people.”
The commanding officer gave his permission, and Paul, standing on the steps, made signs with his hand to the people, and, when comparative silence had been obtained, he said to them in Hebrew: