Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven.
Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;
Withal praying also for us, that Elohim would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of the Messiah, for which I am also in bonds:
That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.
Let your speech be alway with favour, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man.
All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you, who is a beloved brother, and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the Master:
Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know your estate, and comfort your hearts;
With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things which are done here.
Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and Marcus, sister's son to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received commandments: if he come unto you, receive him;)
And Yahushua, which is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These only are my fellow workers unto the kingdom of יהוה, which have been a comfort unto me.
Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of the Messiah, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of יהוה.
For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.
Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.
Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly which is in his house.
And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the assembly of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea.
And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Master, that thou fulfil it.
The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Favour be with you.