The siluer surely hath his veyne, and ye gold his place, where they take it.
Yron is taken out of the dust, and brasse is molten out of the stone.
God putteth an end to darkenesse, and he tryeth the perfection of all things: he setteth a bond of darkenesse, and of the shadowe of death.
The flood breaketh out against the inhabitant, and the waters forgotten of the foote, being higher then man, are gone away.
Out of the same earth commeth bread, and vnder it, as it were fire is turned vp.
The stones thereof are a place of saphirs, and the dust of it is golde.
There is a path which no foule hath knowen, neyther hath the kites eye seene it.
The lyons whelpes haue not walked it, nor the lyon passed thereby.
He putteth his hand vpon the rockes, and ouerthroweth the mountaines by the rootes.
He breaketh riuers in the rockes, and his eye seeth euery precious thing.
He bindeth the floods, that they doe not ouerflowe, and the thing that is hid, bringeth he to light.
But where is wisdome found? and where is the place of vnderstanding?
Man knoweth not the price thereof: for it is not found in the land of the liuing.
The depth sayth, It is not in mee: the sea also sayth, It is not with me.
Golde shall not be giuen for it, neyther shall siluer be weighed for the price thereof.
It shall not be valued with the wedge of golde of Ophir, nor with the precious onix, nor the saphir.
The golde nor the chrystall shall be equall vnto it, nor the exchange shalbe for plate of fine golde.
No mention shall be made of coral, nor of the gabish: for wisedome is more precious then pearles.
The Topaz of Ethiopia shall not be equall vnto it, neither shall it be valued with the wedge of pure gold.
Whence then commeth wisedome? and where is the place of vnderstanding,
Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all the liuing, and is hid from the foules of the heauen?
Destruction and death say, We haue heard the fame thereof with our eares.
But God vnderstandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place thereof.
For he beholdeth the endes of the world, and seeth all that is vnder heauen,
To make the weight of the windes, and to weigh the waters by measure.
When he made a decree for the rayne, and a way for the lightening of the thunders,
Then did he see it, and counted it: he prepared it and also considered it.
And vnto man he said, Behold, the feare of the Lord is wisedome, and to depart from euil is vnderstanding.