And Joshua was old, going on in days. And Jehovah said to him, You have become aged, you are far along in days; yet very much land remains to be possessed.
This is the land that still remains: all the regions of the Philistines, and all Geshuri,
from Shihor which fronts on Egypt, and to the border of Ekron northward (it is counted to the Canaanites) five lords of the Philistines, of Gaza, of Ashdod, of Ashkelon, of Gath, and of Ekron; also the Avim.
From the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah which belongs to the Sidonians; to Aphek, to the border of the Amorites;
and the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunrising, from Baal-gad below Mount Hermon to the entering to Hamath;
all the inhabitants of the hills, from Lebanon to the burning waters; all the Sidonians; I will expel them before the sons of Israel: Only, cause it to fall to Israel for an inheritance, as I have commanded you.
Now, then, divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh.
With him the Reubenites, and the Gadites received their inheritance, which Moses gave to them beyond the Jordan eastward, as Moses the servant of Jehovah has given to them;
from Aroer on the lip of the river Arnon, and the city which is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain of Medeba, to Dibon;
and all the cities of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, to the border of the sons of Ammon;
and Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites, and of the Maachathite, and all Mount Hermon, and all Bashan to Salcah;
all the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei; he remained of the remnant of the giants. And Moses struck them and expelled them.
But the sons of Israel did not expel the Geshurites and the Maachathite, but Geshur and Maachathites live in the midst of Israel until today.
Only, he has not given an inheritance to the tribe of Levi. The fire offerings of Jehovah the God of Israel are its inheritance, as He has spoken to it.
And Moses gave to the tribe of the sons of Reuben, for their families;
and their border was from Aroer on the lip of the river Arnon, and the city which is in the middle of the valley, and all the plain by Medeba;
Heshbon, and all its cities in the tableland; Dibon, and Bamoth-baal, and Beth-baal-meon;
and Jahazah, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath;
and Kirjath-aim, and Sibmah, and Zareth-shahar in the mountain of the valley;
and Beth-peor, and the Slopes of Pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth;
and all the cities of the tableland, and all the kingdom of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses struck with the rulers of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, chiefs of Sihon, the inhabitants of the land.
And the sons of Israel killed Balaam the son of Beor, the diviner, with the sword, among their slain.
And the border of the sons of Reuben was from the Jordan, and its border. This was the inheritance of the sons of Reuben for their families, the cities and their villages.
And Moses gave to the tribe of Gad, to the sons of Gad, for their families:
And their border was to Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half of the land of the sons of Ammon, to Aroer, which is before Rabbah;
and from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh, and Betonim, and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir;
and in the valley, Beth-aram, and Beth-nimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon the king of Heshbon; the Jordan and its border, to the edge of the Sea of Chinnereth, beyond the Jordan, eastward.
This is the inheritance of the sons of Gad, for their families, the cities and their villages.
And Moses gave inheritance to the half tribe of Manasseh. And it was to the half of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, for their families:
and their border was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og the king of Bashan, and all the small towns of Jair in Bashan, sixty cities;
and the half of Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, belonged to the sons of Machir, the son of Manasseh, to the half of the sons of Machir for their families.
These are they whom Moses caused to inherit in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan, opposite Jericho, eastward.
But Moses did not give an inheritance to the tribe of Levi. Jehovah the God of Israel Himself is their inheritance, as He has spoken to them.