In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Who then is greater in the kingdom of Heaven?
And having called forward a little child, Jesus set him in their midst.
And He said, Truly I say to you, Unless you convert and become as the little children, not at all can you enter into the kingdom of Heaven.
Then whoever will humble himself as this little child, this one is the greater in the kingdom of Heaven.
And whoever will receive one such little child in My name receives Me.
But whoever causes one of these little ones believing in Me to offend, it is better for him that a millstone turned by an ass be hung on his neck, and he be sunk in the depth of the sea.
Woe to the world from its offenses! It is a necessity for the offenses to come, yet woe to that man through whom the offense comes!
And if your hand or your foot offends you, cut it off and throw it from you; it is good for you to enter into life lame or maimed, than having two hands or two feet to be thrown into the everlasting fire.
And if your eye offends you, pluck it out and throw it from you; for it is good for you to enter into life one eyed, than having two eyes to be thrown into the Hell of fire.
See that you do not despise one of these little ones , for I tell you that their angels in Heaven continually look on the face of My Father in Heaven.
For the Son of man has come to save that which was lost.
What do you think? If there be to any man a hundred sheep, and one of them strays away, will he not leave the ninety nine on the mountains, and going, seek the straying one ?
And if he happens to find it, truly I say to you that he rejoices over it more than over the ninety nine not going astray.
So it is not the will before your Father in Heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
But if your brother sins against you, go and reprove him between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother.
But if he does not hear, take one or two more with you, "so that on the mouth of two" or "three witnesses every word may stand". Deut. 19:15
But if he fails to hear them, tell it to the church. And if he also fails to hear the church, let him be to you as the nations and the tax collector.
Truly I say to you, Whatever you bind on the earth shall occur, having been bound in Heaven. And whatever you loose on the earth shall be, having been loosed in Heaven.
Again I say to you, If two of you agree on earth as to anything, whatever they shall ask, it shall be to them from My Father in Heaven.
For where two or three are gathered together in My name, there I am in their midst.
Then coming up to Him, Peter said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Until seven times?
Jesus said to him, I do not say to you, Until seven times, but, Until seventy times seven.
For this reason the kingdom of Heaven has been compared to a man, a king, who decided to take account with his slaves.
And when he began to reckon, one debtor of ten thousand talents was brought near to him.
But he not having any to pay, the lord commanded him to be sold, also his wife and children, and all things, as much as he had, even to pay back.
Then falling down, the slave bowed the knee to him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay all to you.
And being filled with pity, the lord of that slave released him and forgave him the loan.
But going out, that slave found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denarii. And seizing him, he choked him , saying, Pay me whatever you owe.
Then falling down at his feet, his fellow slave begged him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay all to you.
But he would not, but going away he threw him into prison until he pay back the amount owing.
But his fellow slaves, seeing the things happening, they were greatly grieved. And coming they reported to their lord all the things happening.
Then calling him near, his lord said to him, Wicked slave! I forgave you all that debt, since you begged me.
Ought you not also to favor your fellow slave, as I also favored you?
And being angry, his lord delivered him up to the tormentors until he pay back all that debt to him.
So also My heavenly Father will do to you unless each of you from your hearts forgive his brother their trespasses.