I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a servant of the church in Cenchrea,
that you receive her in the Lord, as becomes saints, and that you may assist her in whatever business she has need of you. For she has been a helper of many, and of myself also.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus,
who have laid down their own necks for my life; to whom not only I give thanks, but also the churches of the nations.
Likewise greet the church that is in their house. Greet my beloved Epenetus, who is the first-fruits of Achaia to Christ.
Greet Mary, who bestowed much labor on us.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.
Greet Urbanus, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those who are of Aristobulus' household.
Greet Herodion my kinsman. Greet those who are of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis, who labored much in the Lord.
Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers with them.
Greet Philologus and Julias, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you.
And I exhort you, brothers, to watch those making divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which you have learned, and avoid them.
For they who are such do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by good words and fair speeches they deceive the hearts of the simple.
For your obedience reached to all. Therefore I am glad on your behalf, But I would have you truly wise as to good, and simple toward evil.
And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
Timothy my fellow worker, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater my kinsmen, greet you.
I, Tertius, who wrote this epistle, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius my host, and the host of me and the whole church, greets you. Erastus the steward of the city greets you, and Quartus a brother.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Now to Him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ according to the revelation of the mystery, having been unvoiced during eternal times;
but now has been made plain, and by the prophetic Scriptures, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith;
to God only wise be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen.