And, Benjamin, begat Bela his firstborn,—Ashbel, the second, and Aharah, the third,—
Nohah, the fourth, and Rapha, the fifth.
And Bela had sons—Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,—
and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,—
and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
And, these, are the sons of Ehud,—these, are the ancestral chiefs to the inhabitants of Geba, but they were carried away captive, unto Manahath;
and, as for Naaman and Ahijah and Gera, the same, carried them captive,—and he begat Uzza and Ahihud.
And, Shaharaim, begat children in the field of Moab, after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives.
Then begat he, of Hodesh his wife,—Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam;
and Jeuz, and Sachia, and Mirmah,—these, were his sons, ancestral chiefs.
And, of Hushim, he begat Abitub, and Elpaal.
And, the sons of Elpaal, Eber, and Misham, and Shemed,—he, built Ono, and Lod, and the villages thereof.
And, as for Beriah and Shema, they, were ancestral chiefs to the inhabitants of Aijalon,—they, put to flight the inhabitants of Gath;
and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,—
and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder,—
and Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, sons of Beriah,—
and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber,—
and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab, sons of Elpaal,—
and Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi—
and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,—
and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, sons of Shimei,—
and Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,—
and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,—
and Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothijah,—
and Iphdeiah, and Penuel, sons of Shashak,—
and Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,—
and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri, sons of Jeroham:
these, were ancestral chiefs to their generations, chief men,—these, dwelt in Jerusalem;
And, in Gibeon, dwelt the father of Gibeon [Jeiel], the name of whose wife, was Maacah,—
and his firstborn son, Abdon, and Zur and Kish, and Baal and Ner and Nadab,—
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher.
And, Mikloth, begat Shimeah,—moreover also, they, over against their brethren, did dwell in Jerusalem, with their own brethren.
So then, Ner, begat Kish, and, Kish, begat Saul,—and, Saul, begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
And, the son of Jonathan, was Merib-baal,—and, Merib-baal, begat Micah.
And, the sons of Micah, were Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
And, Ahaz, begat Jehoaddah, and, Jehoaddah, begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri,—and, Zimri, begat Moza;
and, Moza, begat Binea,—Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
And, Azel, had six sons, and, these, were their names—Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obediah, and Hanan and Asah,—all these, were sons of Azel.
And, the sons of Eshek his brother, were Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
And the sons of Ulam became men that were heroes of valour, archers, with many sons, and sons’ sons, a hundred and fifty. All these, were of the sons of Benjamin.