Not many should become teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive greater judgment.
For we all stumble in many things. If any man does not stumble in word, this is a perfect man, able also to bridle the whole body.
Behold we put bits into the mouths of horses for them to obey us, and we guide about their whole body.
Behold also the ships, being so great and driven by fierce winds, are guided about by a very small rudder, wherever the impulse of the man who steers determines.
So also the tongue is a little body-part, and boasts greatly. Behold a little fire, how much wood it kindles.
And the tongue is a fire, the world of unrighteousness. Thus, the tongue is made to lead among our body-parts, defiling the whole body, and setting the cycle of nature on fire, and being set on fire by hell.
For every species, both of beasts and of birds, both of creeping things and things in the sea, is tamed, and has been tamed by the human species.
But no man is able to tame the tongue of men, an unruly evil, full of deadly poison.
By it we bless the God and Father, and by it we curse men, who were made according to a likeness of God.
Out of the same mouth proceeds blessing and curse. My brothers, these things ought not to happen this way.
Does the spring pour out from the same opening the sweet and the bitter?
A fig tree, my brothers, cannot make olives, or a grapevine figs. In the same way, no one spring makes water salty and sweet.
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show from his good behavior his works in meekness of wisdom.
But if ye have bitter envy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast, and do not lie against the truth.
This wisdom is not descending from above, but is earthly, world-soul, demonic.
For where envy and selfish ambition are, there is instability and every evil deed.
But the wisdom from above is indeed first pure, then peaceful, gentle, easily entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and non-hypocritical.
And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace to those who make peace.