Then called he unto Moses,—and Yahweh spake unto him, out of the tent of meeting, saying:
Speak thou unto the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them When any man, would bring near from among you an oblation, unto Yahweh, from the beasts, from the herd or from the flock, shall ye bring near your oblation.
If an ascending-sacrifice, be his oblation—of the herd, a male without defect, shall he bring near,—unto the entrance of the tent of meeting, shall he bring it, for its acceptance, before Yahweh.
Then shall he lean his hand, upon the head of the ascending-sacrifice,—and it shall be accepted for him to put a propitiatory covering over him;
and he shall slay the young bullock before Yahweh,—and the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall bring near the blood, and shall dash the blood against the altar round about, [even the altar] that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Then shall he flay the ascending-sacrifice,—and cut it up into its pieces.
And the sons of Aaron the priest shall place fire upon the altar,—and arrange wood, upon the fire.
And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall arrange the pieces, the head and the fat,—upon the wood, that is on the fire, that is on the altar.
But its inwards and its legs, shall they bathe with water,—then shall the priest make, of the whole, a perfume at the altar, an ascending-sacrifice an altar-flame of a satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
But, if of the flock, be his oblation,—of the sheep or of the goats, for an ascending-sacrifice, a male without defect, shall he bring near.
And he shall slay it on the side of the altar northward, before Yahweh,—and the sons of Aaron the priests shall dash its blood against the altar round about.
And he shall cut it up into its pieces, and its head, and its fat,—and the priest shall arrange them upon the wood that is on the fire, that is on the altar,
But the inwards and the legs, shall he bathe in water,—then shall the priest bring near the whole and make a perfume at the altar, an ascending-sacrifice, it is an altar-flame of a satisfying odour, unto Yahweh.
But, if, of birds, be the ascending-sacrifice of his oblation unto Yahweh, then shall he bring near of the turtle-doves or of the young pigeons, his oblation.
And the priest shall bring it near unto the altar shall nip off its head, and make a perfume at the altar,—and its blood shall be drained out upon the wall of the altar.
Then shall he take away its crop with its plumage,—and cast it beside the altar, eastward, into the place of fat ashes;
and he shall cleave it in its wings—he shall not divide it asunder, so shall the priest make a perfume therewith, at the altar, upon the wood that is on the fire,—an ascending-sacrifice, it is, an altar-flame of a satisfying odour, unto Yahweh.