And traveling through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And according to Paul's custom, he went in to them and reasoned with them from the Scriptures on three sabbaths,
opening and setting forth that the Christ must have suffered, and to have risen from the dead, and that this is the Christ, Jesus, whom I announce to you.
And some of them were persuaded and joined themselves to Paul and Silas, both a great multitude of the worshiping Greeks, and not a few of the leading women.
But becoming jealous, and having taken aside some wicked men of the market loafers, and gathering a crowd, the disobeying Jews set the city into turmoil. And coming on the house of Jason, they sought to bring them on to the mob.
But not finding them, they dragged Jason and some brothers before the city judges, crying, Those turning the habitable world upside down have come here, too;
whom Jason has received. And these all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying there is another king, Jesus.
And hearing these things, they troubled the crowd and the city judges.
And taking security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.
But the brothers at once sent both Paul and Silas to Berea during the night; who having arrived went into the synagogue of the Jews.
And these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, for they received the Word with all readiness, daily examining the Scriptures if these things are so .
Then indeed many from among them believed, and not a few of the honorable Greek women and men.
But when the Jews from Thessalonica knew that the Word of God was also announced in Berea by Paul, they came there also, shaking up the crowd.
And immediately, then, the brothers sent away Paul, to go as toward the sea. But both Silas and Timothy remained there.
But those conducting Paul brought him as far as Athens. And receiving a command to Silas and Timothy that they come to him quickly, they departed.
But awaiting them in Athens, Paul's spirit was pained within him, seeing the city full of images.
Then, indeed, he addressed the Jews in the synagogue, and those worshiping, also in the market every day, to those happening to be there .
And some of the Epicureans and of the Stoics, philosophers, fell in with him. And some said, What may this chatterer wish to say? And these others , He seems to be an announcer of foreign demons (because he announced Jesus and the resurrection to them).
And taking hold of him, they led him to the Areopagus, saying, Are we able to know what is this new doctrine being spoken by you?
For you bring startling things to our ears. We are minded, then, to know what these things wish to be.
And all Athenians and the strangers living there have leisure for nothing else than to say and to hear newer things.
And standing in the middle of the Areopagus, Paul said, Men, Athenians, I see how you in everything are fearful of gods;
for passing through and looking up at the objects of your worship, I also found an altar on which had been written, TO AN UNKNOWN GOD. Not knowing, then, whom you worship, I make Him known to you.
The God who made the world and all things in it, this One being Lord of Heaven and of earth, does not dwell in handmade temples,
nor is served by hands of men, as having need of anything. For He is giving life and breath and all things to all.
And He made every nation of men of one blood, to live on all the face of the earth, ordaining fore-appointed seasons and boundaries of their dwelling,
to seek the Lord, if perhaps they might feel after Him and might find Him, though indeed He not being far from each one of us.
For in Him we live and move and exist, as also some of the poets among you have said, For we are also His offspring.
Then being offspring of God, we ought not to suppose that the Godhead is like gold or silver or stone, engraved by art and the imagination of man.
Truly, then, God overlooking the times of ignorance, now strictly commands all men everywhere to repent,
because He set a day in which "He is going to judge the habitable world in righteousness," by a Man whom He appointed; having given proof to all by raising Him from the dead. Psa. 9:8
And hearing of a resurrection of the dead, some indeed ridiculed, but said, We will hear you again concerning this.
And so Paul went out from their midst.
But some men believed, joining themselves to him, among whom also were both Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.