And David the king said to all the congregation, My son Solomon, the one whom God has chosen, is young and tender. And the work is great, for the magnificent house is not for man, but for Jehovah God.
And with all my power I have prepared for the house of my God, the gold for things of gold, and the silver for silver, and the bronze for bronze, the iron for iron things , and the wood for wood, onyx stones, and settings, and also stones of antimony and of different colors, and every precious stone, and stones of alabaster, in abundance.
And also, because I delighted in the house of my God, I have treasure of gold and silver which I give for the house of my God, even more than all that I have prepared for the house of the sanctuary:
three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir; and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the houses;
even gold for things of gold, and silver for silver, and for all the work of the hands of the skilled workers. And who is he that will willingly offer to consecrate his hand today to Jehovah?
And the chiefs of the fathers, and the chiefs of the tribes of Israel, and the commanders of the thousands, and the hundreds, even the chiefs of the king's work, offered willingly,
and gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents, and a myriad of darics; and ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.
And he having stones gave them to the treasury of the house of Jehovah, by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
And the people rejoiced because of their willing offering, for they offered willingly to Jehovah with a perfect heart; and David the king also rejoiced with great joy.
And David blessed Jehovah before the eyes of all the congregation; and David said, Blessed are You, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, our father, for ever and ever.
To you, O Jehovah, be the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty; for all in the heavens and in the earth belongs to You, O Jehovah; Yours is the kingdom, and You lift up  Yourself to all as Head;
and the riches, and the honor come from before You, and You rule over all; and in Your hand is power and might; and it is in Your hand to make great, and to give strength to all.
And now, our God, we are giving thanks to You, and giving praise to Your glorious name;
yea, for who am I, and who my people, that we should be able to offer willingly in this way? For all is of You, and we have given to You out of Your hand;
for we are strangers before You, and settlers, like all our fathers; our days on the land are like a shadow, and there is none abiding.
O Jehovah our God, all this store that we have prepared to build a house to You, for Your holy name, is out of Your hand, and all is of You.
And I know, my God, that You try the heart and are pleased with uprightness; I, in the uprightness of my heart, have offered willingly all these things; and now I have watched with joy Your people who are present here offering willingly to You.
O Jehovah, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep this forever for the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of your people, and prepare their heart toward You;
and give a perfect heart to my son Solomon, to keep Your commandments, Your testimonies, and Your statutes, and to do all, even to build this magnificent house, for which I have prepared.
And David said to all the congregation, Now bless Jehovah your God. And all the congregation blessed Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and worshiped Jehovah, and bowed to the king.
And they sacrificed sacrifices to Jehovah, and offered burnt offerings to Jehovah, on the next day after that day: a thousand bullocks, a thousand rams, a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in great plenty for all Israel.
And they ate and drank before Jehovah on that day with great joy, and made Solomon the son of David king a second time, and anointed him before Jehovah as ruler, and Zadok as priest.
And Solomon sat on the throne of Jehovah as king instead of his father David, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.
And all the rulers, and the mighty men, and also all the sons of king David, submitted themselves to Solomon the king.
And Jehovah magnified Solomon to a height in the eyes of all Israel, and put the honor of the kingdom on him, such as had not been on any king over Israel before him.
And David the son of Jesse had reigned over all Israel;
and the days that he reigned over Israel were forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and he reigned thirty three years in Jerusalem.
And he died in a good old age, satisfied with days, riches, and honor. And his son Solomon reigned in his place.
And the acts of David the king, the first and the last, behold, they are written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,
with all his reign and his might, and the times that passed over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the lands.