And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Sanctify to me all the firstborn, whatever opens the womb among the sons of Israel. Both of man and of beast, it is mine.
And Moses said to the people, Remember this day, in which ye came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage, for by strength of hand Jehovah brought you out from this place. There shall no leavened bread be eaten.
This day ye go forth in the month Abib.
And it shall be, when Jehovah shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, which he swore to thy fathers to give thee, a land flowing with milk and honey, that thou shall keep this service in this month.
Seven days thou shall eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh day shall be a feast to Jehovah.
Unleavened bread shall be eaten throughout the seven days, and there shall no leavened bread be seen with thee, neither shall there be leaven seen with thee in all thy borders.
And thou shall tell thy son in that day, saying, It is because of that which Jehovah did for me when I came forth out of Egypt.
And it shall be for a sign to thee upon thy hand, and for a memorial between thine eyes, that the law of Jehovah may be in thy mouth, for with a strong hand has Jehovah brought thee out of Egypt.
Thou shall therefore keep this ordinance in its season from year to year.
And it shall be, when Jehovah shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanite, as he swore to thee and to thy fathers, and shall give it to thee,
that thou shall set apart to Jehovah all that opens the womb. And every firstling which thou have that comes of a beast, the males shall be Jehovah's.
And every firstling of a donkey thou shall redeem with a lamb, and if thou will not redeem it, then thou shall break its neck. And all the firstborn of man among thy sons thou shall redeem.
And it shall be, when thy son asks thee in time to come, saying, What is this? that thou shall say to him, By strength of hand Jehovah brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage.
And it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that Jehovah slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man, and the firstborn of beast. Therefore I sacrifice to Jehovah all that opens the womb, being males, but all the firstborn of my sons I redeem.
And it shall be for a sign upon thy hand, and for frontlets between thine eyes, for by strength of hand Jehovah brought us forth out of Egypt.
And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led them not by the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near. For God said, Lest perhaps the people regret when they see war, and they return to Egypt.
But God led the people about, by the way of the wilderness by the Red Sea. And the sons of Israel went up armed out of the land of Egypt.
And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had strictly sworn the sons of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones away from here with you.
And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.
And Jehovah went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to lead them the way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light, that they might go by day and by night.
The pillar of cloud by day, and the pillar of fire by night departed not from before the people.