And the life of Sarah came to be, a hundred and twenty-seven years,—the years of the life of Sarah.
And Sarah died in Kiriath-arba, the same, is Hebron in the land of Canaan,—and Abraham went in to wail for Sarah and to weep for her.
And Abraham rose up from over the face of his dead,—and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying;
A sojourner and settler, am I with you,—Give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, That I may bury my dead, from before me.
And the sons of Heth answered Abraham, saying to him:
Hear us, my lord! A prince of God, art thou in our midst, In the choice of our buryingplaces, bury thy dead,—Not, a man from among us his, burying-place, will withhold from thee, from burying thy dead.
And Abraham rose up, and bowed himself down to the people of the land, to the sons of Heth;
and spake with them, saying,—If it is with the consent of your minds that I should bury my dead from before me, hear me, and intercede for me, with Ephron son of Zohar:
That he would give me, the cave of Machpelah, which pertaineth unto him, which is within the bounds of his field,—For full silver, let him give it me in your midst, For a possession of a buryingplace.
Now, Ephron, was sitting in the midst of the sons of Heth,—so Ephron the Hittite responded to Abraham, in the ears of the sons of Heth, even all that were entering the gate of his city, saying:
Nay, my lord, hear me, The field, have I given to thee And, the cave that is therein, to thee, have I given it,—In the eyes of the sons of my people, have I given it thee Bury thy dead.
So Abraham boweth himself down, before the people of the land:
and spake unto Ephron in the ears of the people of the land saying, Only if, thou, wouldst, hear me,—I have given the silver of the field Take it of me, That I may bury my dead here.
And Ephron responded to Abraham, saying to him,
My lord, hear me,—Land worth four hundred shekels of silver—betwixt me and thee, what is that? And thy dead., bury thou.
And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron, and Abraham weighed out to Ephron the silver of which he had spoken in the ears of the sons of Heth,—four hundred shekels of silver, current with the merchant,
So was confirmed the field of Ephron, which is in Machpelah, which is before Mamre,—the field and the cave which is therein, and all the timber which was in the field, which was in all the boundary thereof round about,
to Abraham as a purchase in the eyes of the sons of Heth,—with all who were entering the gate of his city.
And after this, did Abraham bury Sarah his wife, within the cave of the field of Machpelah, over against Mamre, the same, is Hebron,—in the land of Canaan.
So was confirmed the field with the cave which was therein to Abraham, for a possession of a buryingplace,—from the sons of Heth.