And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of HaShem his G-d;
for he took away the strange altars, and the high places, and broke down the pillars, and hewed down the Asherim;
and commanded Judah to seek HaShem, the G-d of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandment.
Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the sun-images; and the kingdom was quiet before him.
And he built fortified cities in Judah; for the land was quiet, and he had no war in those years; because HaShem had given him rest.
For he said unto Judah: 'Let us build these cities, and make about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars; the land is yet before us, because we have sought HaShem our G-d; we have sought Him, and He hath given us rest on every side.' So they built and prospered.
And Asa had an army that bore bucklers and spears, out of Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bore shields and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand; all these were mighty men of valour.
And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an army of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and he came unto Mareshah.
Then Asa went out to meet him, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephath at Mareshah.
And Asa cried unto HaShem his G-d, and said: 'HaShem, there is none beside Thee to help, between the mighty and him that hath no strength; help us, O HaShem our G-d; for we rely on Thee, and in Thy name are we come against this multitude. Thou art HaShem our G-d; let not man prevail against Thee.'
So HaShem smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah; and the Ethiopians fled.
And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto Gerar; and there fell of the Ethiopians so that none remained alive; for they were shattered before HaShem, and before His host; and they carried away very much booty.
And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for a terror from HaShem came upon them; and they spoiled all the cities; for there was much spoil in them.
They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep in abundance and camels, and returned to Jerusalem.