In the third month of the going out of the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt, on this day they came to the wilderness of Sinai.
And they pulled up stakes from Rephidim and came to the wilderness of Sinai. And they camped in the wilderness. And Israel camped there before the mountain.
And Moses went up to God. And Jehovah called to him from the mountain, saying, You shall say this to the house of Jacob, and tell it to the sons of Israel.
You have seen what I did to Egypt; and I bore you on wings of eagles and brought you to Me.
And now if you will surely listen to My voice, and will keep My covenant, you shall become a special treasure to Me above all the nations, for all the earth is Mine.
And you shall become a kingdom of priests for Me, a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the sons of Israel.
And Moses came and called the elders of the people. And he put all these words before them which Jehovah commanded him.
And all the people answered together and said, All which Jehovah has spoken we will do. And Moses brought back the words of the people to Jehovah.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Behold, I come to you in a darkness of clouds, so that the people may hear My speaking with you, and in you they may believe forever. And Moses told the words of the people to Jehovah.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Go to the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow. And let them wash their clothes.
And be ready for the third day. For on the third day Jehovah will go down before the eyes of all the people on the mountain of Sinai.
And you shall set limits to the people all around, saying, Be careful for yourselves, not going up into the mountain and touching its border; everyone touching the mountain shall surely be killed.
Not a hand shall touch him, but surely he shall be stoned, or surely he shall be shot through. He shall not live, whether animal or man. At the sounding of the ram's horn, they shall go up into the mountain.
And Moses went from the mountain to the people. And he sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes.
And he said to the people, Be ready for the third day. Do not approach a woman.
And on the third day, it being morning, it happened: There were thunders and lightnings, and a heavy cloud on the mountain, and the sound of a ram's horn, very strong! And all the people in the camp trembled.
And Moses caused the people to go up from the camp to meet God. And they took their stand at the lower part of the mountain.
And the mountain of Sinai was smoking, all of it, because Jehovah came down on it in fire. And its smoke went up like the smoke of a furnace; and the mountain quaked exceedingly.
And it happened while the sound of the ram's horn was sounding, and becoming very strong, Moses spoke. And God answered him by a voice.
And Jehovah came down on the mountain of Sinai, to the top of the mountain; and Jehovah called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Go down, warn the people lest they break through to gaze at Jehovah, and many of them fall.
And also the priests, those approaching Jehovah, let them sanctify themselves that Jehovah not burst forth among them.
And Moses said to Jehovah, The people are not able to come up to the mountain of Sinai. For You warned us, saying, Set limits to the mountain and sanctify it.
And Jehovah said to him, Come, go down. And you come up, and Aaron with you. And let not the priests and the people break through to come up to Jehovah, lest He burst forth among them.
And Moses went down to the people and spoke to them.