And these were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the first-born, Amnon, born to Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second, Daniel, to Abigail of Carmel;
the third, Absalom, the son of Maachah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith;
the fifth, Shephatiah, to Abital. The sixth, Ithream, to his wife Eglah.
These six were born to him in Hebron. And he reigned there seven years and six months. And he reigned in Jerusalem thirty three years.
And these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four to Bathsheba the daughter of Ammiel;
also Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet;
also Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia;
and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
These were all the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines, and Tamar their sister.
And Solomon's son was Rehoboam; Abijah his son; Asa his son; Jehoshaphat his son;
Joram his son; Ahaziah his son, Joash his son;
Amaziah his son; Azariah his son; Jotham his son;
Ahaz his son; Hezekiah his son; Manasseh his son;
Amon his son; Josiah his son.
And the sons of Josiah were the first-born Johanan; the second, Jehoiakim; the third, Zedekiah; the fourth, Shallum.
And the sons of Jehoiakim were his son Jeconiah, and his son Zedekiah.
And the sons of Jeconiah were Assir, and Shealtiel his son,
and Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama; and Nedabiah.
And the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and their sister Shelomith;
and Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushabhesed, five.
And the sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jesaiah; the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shechaniah.
And the sons of Shechaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.
And the sons of Elioenai: Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani, seven.