For the divisions of the gatekeepers: of the Korhites was Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
And to Meshelemiah were sons: Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.
And to Obededom were sons: Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fifth,
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth (for God blessed him).
Also sons were born to Shemaiah, who ruled for the house of their father; for they were mighty warriors.
The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brothers, mighty sons, were Elihu and Semachiah.
All these were the sons of Obed-edom. They and their sons and their brothers were mighty men with strength for service. Sixty two were of Obededom.
And to Meshelemiah were sons and brothers, mighty sons: eighteen.
Also to Hosah, of the sons of Merari, were sons: Simri the head, though not the first-born, yet his father made him the head;
Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and brothers of Hosah: thirteen.
To these were the divisions of the gatekeepers for the heads of the men, having charges like their brothers, to minister in the house of Jehovah.
And he made fall lots; as the small, as the great, for the house of their fathers, for gate and gate.
And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. And for his son Zechariah, a wise counselor, they made fall lots; and his lot came out northward;
and to Obededom, southward; and to his sons the house of the stores;
Shuppim and Hosah westward, with the gate of Shallecheth, going up by the highway, guard corresponding to guard.
Eastward were six Levites, northward, four a day; southward, four a day, and toward the storehouse, two by two.
At the Parbar, westward, four at the highway; two at the Parbar.
These are the divisions of the gatekeepers among the sons of Kore and among the sons of Merari.
And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God, and to the treasures of the dedicated things.
The sons of Laadan, sons of the Gershonites; heads of the fathers of Laadan the Gershonite: Jehieli;
the sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and his brother Joel, who were over the treasures of the house of Jehovah,
For the Amramites, for the Izharites, for the Hebronites, for the Uzzielites.
And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses was ruler over the treasures.
And his brothers by Eliezer were his son Rehabiah, and his son Jeshaiah, and his son Joram, and his son Zichri, and his son Shelomith.
Of Shelomith, he and his brothers were over all the treasures of the holy things that David the king, and the heads of the fathers, the commanders over thousands and hundreds, and the commanders of the army had dedicated.
They dedicated from the battles and the plunder, to maintain the house of Jehovah,
and all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, all who dedicated, was at the hand of Shelomith and his brothers.
Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and for judges.
Of the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his brothers, sons of might; a thousand and seven hundred over the oversight of Israel beyond the Jordan westward, for all the work of Jehovah, and for the king's service.
Of Hebron: Jerijah the head of the Hebronites, for his generations to his fathers. In the fortieth year of David's reign, they were sought, and were found among them mighty warriors at Jazer of Gilead.
And his brothers, mighty sons, were two thousand, seven hundred heads of the fathers. And king David made them overseers over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh for every matter of God and matter of the king.