And before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that His hour had come when He should depart out of this world to the Father, having loved His own in the world, He loved them to the end.
And when supper had ended, the Devil now having put into the heart of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon to betray Him,
Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into His hands, and that He had come from God and went to God,
He rose up from supper and laid aside His garments. And He took a towel and girded Himself.
After that He poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which He was girded.
Then He came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to Him, Lord, do You wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said to him, You do not know what I do now, but you shall know hereafter.
Peter said to Him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, Unless I wash you, you have no part with Me.
Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and head.
Jesus said to him, He who is bathed has no need except to wash his feet, but is clean every whit. And you are clean, but not all.
For He knew who would betray Him. Therefore He said, You are not all clean.
So after He had washed their feet and had taken His garments and had reclined again, He said to them, Do you know what I have done to you?
You call Me the Teacher, and Lord, and you say well, for I AM.
If then I, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
For I have given you an example, that you should do as I have done to you.
Truly, truly, I say to you, A servant is not greater than his master, neither is he who is sent greater than he who sent him.
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
I do not speak of you all; I know whom I have chosen; but that the Scripture might be fulfilled, "He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me."
From now I tell you before it comes, so that when it happens you may believe that I AM.
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who receives whomever I send receives Me. And he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.
When Jesus had said this, He was troubled in spirit, and testified and said, Truly, truly, I say to you that one of you shall betray Me.
Then the disciples looked upon one another, wondering of whom He spoke.
But there was one of His disciples leaning upon Jesus' bosom, the one whom Jesus loved.
Simon Peter therefore signaled to him to ask whom it might be of whom He spoke.
And lying on Jesus' breast, he said to him, Lord, who is it?
Jesus answered, It is he to whom I shall give the morsel when I have dipped it. And dipping the morsel, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
And after the morsel, then Satan entered into him. Then Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly.
But no one reclining knew for what reason He spoke this to him.
For some thought, because Judas had the moneybag, that Jesus had said to him, Buy what we have need of for the feast; or that he should give something to the poor.
He then, having received the morsel, went out immediately. And it was night.
Then when he had left, Jesus said, Now the Son of man is glorified, and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorified in Him, God shall also glorify Him in Himself, and shall immediately glorify Him.
Little children, I am with you yet a little while. You shall seek Me; and as I said to the Jews, Where I go, you cannot come, so I now say to you.
I give you a new commandment, that you love one another. As I have loved you, you should also love one another.
By this all shall know that you are My disciples, if you have love toward one another.
Simon Peter said to Him, Lord, where do You go? Jesus answered him, Where I go you cannot now follow Me, but you shall follow Me afterward.
Peter said to Him, Lord, why cannot I follow You now? I will lay down my life for Your sake.
Jesus answered him, Will you lay down your life for My sake? Truly, truly, I say to you, The cock shall not crow until you have denied Me three times.