And it came to pass after these things, that God, did prove Abraham,—and he said unto him, Abraham! And he said Behold me!
And he said—Take, I pray thee, thy son, thine only one, whom thou lovest, even, Isaac, and get thee into the land of Moriah and cause him to ascend there as an ascending-sacrifice, on one of the mountains which I shall name unto thee.
So Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took his two young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave the pieces of wood for an ascending-sacrifice, and mounted and went his way unto the place which God had named to him.
It was, on the third day, that Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
And Abraham said unto his young men—Tarry by yourselves here with the ass, but I and the young man must go yonder,—that we may bow ourselves down and return unto you.
So Abraham took the pieces of wood for the ascending-sacrifice, and laid them on Isaac his son, and took in his own hand the fire and the knife, and they went on their way, both of them together.
Then said Isaac unto Abraham his father, then said he; My father! And he said, Behold me, my son, And he said, Behold the fire, and the pieces of wood,—but where is the lamb, for an ascending-sacrifice?
And Abraham said, God, will provide for himself the lamb for an ascending-sacrifice, my son! So they went on their way, both of them, together.
Then came they into the place which God had named to him, and Abraham built there the altar, and laid in order the pieces of wood, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, above the pieces of wood.
And Abraham put forth his hand, and took the knife,—to slay his son.
Then called out unto him the messenger of Yahweh out of the heavens, and said. Abraham, Abraham! And he said Behold me!
Then he said, Do not put forth thy hand unto the young man, neither do to him—anything at all,—for, now, know I that one who reverest God, thou art, when thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only one, from me.
And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo! a ram, behind, caught in a thicket by his horns, and Abraham went, and took the ram, and caused him to ascend as an ascending-sacrifice instead of his son.
So Abraham called the name of that place Yahweh-yireh,—as to which it is still said to-day, In the mountain of Yahweh, will provision be made.
Then called out the messenger of Yahweh unto Abraham,—a second time out of the heavens;
and said, By myself, have I sworn is the oracle of Yahweh,—Because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only one,
That I will, richly bless, thee, and, abundantly multiply, thy seed, as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand which is on the lip of the sea,—that thy seed may take possession of the gate of his foes:
So shall all the nations of the earth bless themselves in thy seed,—Because thou didst hearken unto my voice.
So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they mounted, and went on their way together unto Beer-sheba,—and Abraham dwelt in Beer-sheba.
And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying,—Behold! Milcah—she also, hath borne sons, to Nahor thy brother:
Uz his firstborn and Buz his brother,—and Kemuel, father of Aram—
and Chesed and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph,—and Bethuel;
And, Bethuel, hath begotten Rebekah,—These eight, hath Milcah borne to Nahor brother of Abraham.
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she also, hath borne Tebah and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah.