AS soon then as the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptised more disciples than John
(though Jesus himself did not baptise, but his disciples),
he left Judea, and went again into Galilee.
Now he must necessarily pass through Samaria.
Then he cometh to a city of Samaria, called Sichar, near the spot of ground which Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
And Jacob’s well was there. Therefore Jesus, weary with his journey, e’en sat himself down on the well: it was about the sixth hour.
A woman of Samaria comes to draw water: Jesus saith to her, Give me to drink.
(For his disciples were gone into the city to buy provisions.)
The Samaritan woman therefore saith to him, How canst thou, a Jew, ask of me, who am a Samaritan woman, to drink? for Jews avoid all intercourse with Samaritans.
Jesus answered and said to her, If thou hadst known the gift of God, and who he is that speaketh to thee, thou wouldest have requested him, and he would have given thee life-giving water.
The woman saith unto him, Thou hast no bucket, and the well is deep: whence then canst thou have this water that giveth life?
Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, and his children, and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said unto her, Every one who drinketh of this water shall thirst again:
but whosoever shall drink of the water which I shall give him, he shall no more thirst to eternity; but the water which I will give him, shall be in him a fountain of water springing up to life eternal.
The woman saith to him, Sir, give me this water, that I may no more thirst, nor come hither to draw.
Jesus saith to her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.
The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus saith to her, Thou hast spoken right, that thou hast no husband:
for thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in this thou hast spoken true.
The woman saith to him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye affirm, That the place where we ought to worship is at Jerusalem.
Jesus saith to her, Woman, believe me, that the hour approaches, when ye shall worship the Father neither in this mountain, nor at Jerusalem.
Ye worship ye know not what: we worship what we do know: for salvation cometh from the Jews.
But the hour is coming, yea, is now come, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such worshippers of him.
God is a Spirit: and they who worship him, must worship him in spirit and in truth.
The woman saith, I know that Messiah is coming (who is called Christ): when he cometh, he will inform us of all things.
Jesus saith unto her, I that am speaking to thee am he.
And upon this came his disciples, and wondered that he talked with the woman: yet no one said, What art thou seeking? or, Why art thou talking with her?
Then the woman left her pitcher, and went into the city, and said to the men,
Come with me; behold a man, who told me all things that I ever did: is not this the Messiah?
Then they went out of the city, and came unto him.
In the mean time his disciples invited him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
But he said to them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.
Then said his disciples to each other, Hath any person brought him ought to eat?
Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.
Do ye not say, That yet there are four months, and then the harvest cometh? behold, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and look upon the fields; for they are now white for harvest.
And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.
For herein is the saying true, That one soweth and another reapeth.
I have sent you to reap that on which ye have bestowed no labour: others have laboured, and ye have entered into their labour.
Now many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him, on the report of the woman, who said, That he told me all things I ever had done.
So on this the Samaritans came to him, and besought him to abide with them: and he tarried there two days.
And many more believed because of his own word;
and said to the woman, Now we believe, not merely on account of thy relation: for we ourselves have heard, and know that this is of a certainty the Saviour of the world, the Messiah.
Then after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee.
For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country.
When therefore he was come into Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all the things which he did at the feast: for they also had gone to the feast.
Then came Jesus again to Cana of Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And there was a certain attendant on the king, whose son was sick at Capernaum.
This person having heard that Jesus was come out of Judea into Galilee, went to him, that he might come down, and cure his son: for he was at the point of death.
Then said Jesus unto him, Unless ye see miracles and wonders, ye will not believe.
The courtier said to him, Sir, come down before my child is dead.
Jesus saith to him, Go home; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word which Jesus had spoken, and went home.
And as he was now going down home, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son is recovered!
Then inquired he of them the hour at which he began to amend? and they told him, It was yesterday, at the seventh hour, when the fever left him.
Then the father knew that it was the very hour when Jesus said, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole family.
This is again a second miracle which Jesus did, when he came from Judea into Galilee.