Hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and have come out from the waters of Judah, who swear by Jehovah's name and profess by the God of Israel, not in truth or in righteousness.
For they are called of the holy city, and rest themselves on the God of Israel; Jehovah of Hosts is His name.
I have foretold the former things from then; and they went out of My mouth; and I made them hear; suddenly I acted, and they came about.
Because I knew that you are hard, and your neck is a sinew of iron, and your brow brass.
And I declared to you from then; before it came I made you hear, lest you should say, My idol did them; and my image and my casted image commanded them.
You heard; see it all; and will you not declare? I made you hear new things from now, even hidden things, and you did not know them.
They are created now, and not from then; even before today, but you did not hear them; lest you should say, See, I knew them.
Yea, you did not hear; yea, you did not know; yea, from then your ear was not opened; for I know you surely will betray and trespass, from the womb it was called to you.
For My name's sake I will put off My anger; and for My praise I will hold back for you, so as not to cut you off.
Behold, I have refined you, but not with silver; I have chosen you in the furnace of affliction.
For My sake, for My sake, I will act; for how is it defiled? And I will not give My glory to another.
Listen to Me, O Jacob, and Israel My called: I am He; I am the first; I surely am the last.
My hand surely founded earth, and My right hand has stretched out the heavens; I called to them, they stood up together.
All of you gather and hear: Who among them has declared these things ? Jehovah has loved him. He will do His pleasure on Babylon; yea, His arm shall be on the Chaldeans.
I, I have spoken; yea, I have called him, I brought him, and he causes his way to prosper.
Come near to me; hear this: I have not spoken in secret from the beginning. From its being, I was there; and now the Lord Jehovah, and His Spirit, has sent Me.
So says Jehovah, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, I am Jehovah your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you in the way you should go.
Oh that you had listened to My commands! Then your peace would have been like the river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea.
And your seed would have been like the sand, and your offspring of your bowels like its grain; his name would not have been cut off nor destroyed from My presence.
Go out of Babylon; flee from the Chaldeans. Tell this with the voice of rejoicing; let this be heard, let it go out to the end of the earth; say, Jehovah has redeemed His servant Jacob.
And they did not thirst; He led them in the deserts; He made waters flow out of rock for them. And He cut open the rock and the water gushed out.
There is no peace, says Jehovah, to the wicked.