Now, the sons of Israel—as to the number of them, the ancestral chiefs—and rulers of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who waited upon the king as to any matter of the courses, who came in and went out month by month, for all the months of the year, in each course, were twenty-four thousand.
Over the first course, for the first month, was Jashobeam, son of Zabdiel,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
Of the sons of Perez, was the chief for all the rulers of the hosts, for the first month.
And, over the course for the second month, was Dodai an Ahohite, and, of his course, was Mikloth also a chief ruler,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The ruler of the third host, for the third month, was Benaiah, son of Jehoiada the priest—a chief,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The same Benaiah, was a hero of thirty, and over the thirty,—and, over his course, was Ammizabad his son.
The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel, brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son, after him,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
Of the fifth, for the fifth month, the ruler, was Shamhuth the Izrahite,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira son of Ikkesh, the Tekoite,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite, of the Benjamites,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel,—and, in his course, were twenty-four thousand.
Furthermore, over the tribes of Israel, the chief ruler of the Reubenites, was Eliezer, son of Zichri. Of the Simeonites, Shephatiah, son of Maacah.
Of Levi, Hashabiah, son of Kemuel. Of Aaron, Zadok.
Of Judah, Elihu, one of the brethren of David. Of Issachar, Omri, son of Michael.
Of Zebulun, Ishmaiah, son of Obadiah. Of Naphtali, Jeremoth, son of Azriel.
Of the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea son of Azaziah. Of the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel, son of Pedaiah.
Of the half of Manasseh, in Gilead, Iddo, son of Zechariah. Of Benjamin, Jaasiel, son of Abner.
Of Dan, Azarel, son of Jeroham. These, were the rulers of the tribes of Israel.
But David took not the number of them, from twenty years old, and under,—because Yahweh had said, he would multiply Israel like the stars of the heavens.
Joab son of Zeruiah, began to number, but finished not, when there arose, on this account, indignation against Israel,—neither did the number come up into the account of the chronicles of King David.
And, over the treasuries of the king, was Azmaveth, son of Adiel. And, over the treasuries in the fields, in the cities, in the villages and in the castles, was Jonathan, son of Uzziah;
And, over the workers of the field, for the tillage of the ground, was Ezri, son of Chelub.
And, over the vineyards, was Shimei, the Ramathite. And, over that which was in the vineyards, for the treasuries of wine, was Zabdi, the Shiphmite.
And, over the olive-trees and the sycamore-trees that were in the lowland, was Baal-hanan the Gederite. And, over the treasuries of oil, was Joash.
And, over the herds that pastured in Sharon, was Shitrai, the Sharonite. And, over the herds in the vales, Shaphat, son of Adlai.
And, over the camels, was Obil, the Ishmaelite. And, over the asses, was Jehdeyahu the Meronothite.
And, over the flocks, was Jaziz, the Hagrite. All these, were rulers over the possessions that belonged to King David.
And, Jonathan the relative of David, was a counsellor, a man of understanding and a scribe, was he. And, Jehiel son of Hachmoni, was with the sons of the king.
And, Ahitophel, was counsellor to the king. And, Hushai the Archite, was the companion of the king.
And, after Ahitophel, was Jehoiada son of Benaiah—and Abiathar. And, the captain of the king’s army, was Joab.