And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled at Shiloh, and set up the tabernacle of the congregation there. And the land was subdued before them.
And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes, which had not yet received their inheritance.
And Joshua said to the children of Israel, How long will ye neglect to go to possess the land, which the LORD God of your fathers hath given you?
Pick out from among you three men for each tribe: and I will send them, and they shall rise, and go through the land, and describe it according to the inheritance of them; and they shall come again to me.
And they shall divide it into seven parts: Judah shall abide in their land on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in their land on the north.
Ye shall therefore describe the land in seven parts, and bring the description here to me, that I may cast lots for you here before the LORD our God.
But the Levites have no part among you; for the priesthood of the LORD is their inheritance: and Gad, and Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh, have received their inheritance beyond Jordan on the east, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave them.
And the men arose, and departed: and Joshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me, that I may here cast lots for you before the LORD in Shiloh.
And the men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities in seven parts in a book, and came again to Joshua to the host at Shiloh.
And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the LORD: and there Joshua divided the land to the children of Israel according to their divisions.
And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families: and the land of their lot came forth between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph.
And their border on the north side was from Jordan; and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north side, and went up through the mountains westward; and the ends of it were at the wilderness of Bethaven.
And the border went over from there toward Luz, to the side of Luz, which is Bethel, southward; and the border descended to Atarothadar, near the hill that lieth on the south side of the lower Bethhoron.
And the border extended from there, and went around the corner of the sea southward, from the hill that lieth before Bethhoron southward; and the ends of it were at Kirjathbaal, which is Kirjathjearim, a city of the children of Judah: this was the west quarter.
And the south quarter was from the end of Kirjathjearim, and the border went out on the west, and went out to the well of waters of Nephtoah:
And the border came down to the end of the mountain that lieth before the valley of the son of Hinnom, and which is in the valley of the giants on the north, and descended to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of Jebusi on the south, and descended to Enrogel,
And extended from the north, and went forth to Enshemesh, and went forth toward Geliloth, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, and descended to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben,
And passed along toward the side opposite Arabah northward, and went down to Arabah:
And the border passed along to the side of Bethhoglah northward: and the ends of the border were at the north bay of the salt sea at the south end of Jordan: this was the south border.
And Jordan was the border of it on the east side. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, by its borders all around, according to their families.
Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, and Bethhoglah, and the valley of Keziz,
And Betharabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel,
And Avim, and Parah, and Ophrah,
And Chepharhaammonai, and Ophni, and Gaba; twelve cities with their villages:
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,
And Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi, which is Jerusalem, Gibeath, and Kirjath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.