Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, (o. pneuma) unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
To an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fades not away, reserved in heaven for you,
Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
Wherein all of you greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, all of you are in heaviness through manifold temptations:
That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ:
Whom having not seen, all of you love; in whom, though now all of you see him not, yet believing, all of you rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory:
Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls.
Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you:
Searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit (o. pneuma) of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow.
Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Spirit (o. pneuma) sent down from heaven; which things the angels desire to look into.
Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ;
As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance:
But as he which has called you is holy, so be all of you holy in all manner of conversation;
Because it is written, Be all of you holy; for I am holy.
And if all of you call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear:
Forasmuch as all of you know that all of you were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers;
But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot:
Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you,
Who by him do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory; that your faith and hope might be in God.
Seeing all of you have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit (o. pneuma) unto sincere love of the brethren, see that all of you love one another with a pure heart fervently:
Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word (o. logos) of God, which lives and abides for ever.
For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower thereof falls away:
But the word (o. rhema) of the Lord endures for ever. And this is the word (o. rhema) which by the gospel is preached unto you.