And thou shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad (the altar shall be foursquare), and the height of it shall be three cubits.
And thou shall make the horns of it upon the four corners of it. The horns of it shall be of one piece with it, and thou shall overlay it with brass.
And thou shall make its pots to take away its ashes, and its shovels, and its basins, and its flesh-hooks, and its firepans; all the vessels of it thou shall make of brass.
And thou shall make for it a grating of network of brass, and upon the network thou shall make four brazen rings in the four corners of it.
And thou shall put it under the ledge round the altar beneath, that the network may reach halfway up the altar.
And thou shall make staves for the altar, staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass.
And the staves of it shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, in bearing it.
Thou shall make it hollow with planks. As it has been shown thee on the mount, so shall they make it.
And thou shall make the court of the tabernacle. For the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side.
And the pillars of it shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass. The hooks of the pillars and their bands shall be of silver.
And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings a hundred cubits long, and the pillars of it twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass, the hooks of the pillars and their bands, of silver.
And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three.
And for the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three.
And for the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer, their pillars four, and their sockets four.
All the pillars of the court round about shall be banded with silver, their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass.
The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty everywhere, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass.
All the instruments of the tabernacle in all the service of it, and all the pegs of it, and all the pegs of the court, shall be of brass.
And thou shall command the sons of Israel, that they bring to thee pure beaten olive oil for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually
in the tent of meeting, outside the veil which is before the testimony. Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah. It shall be a statute forever throughout their generations on the behalf of the sons of Israel.