Be not thou angry on account of the wicked, Nor be envious of those who do iniquity.
For soon shall they be cut down like grass, And wither like the green herb.
Trust in the LORD, and do good; Abide in the land, and delight in faithfulness.
Place thy delight in the LORD. And he will give thee thy heart’s desires.
Commit thy way to the LORD; Trust in him, and he will give thee success!
He will cause thy justice to shine forth like the light, And thy righteousness like the noonday’s brightness.
Hope thou patiently on the LORD, And in him place thy trust! Be not angry on account of the prosperous,—On account of him that deviseth deceit!
Cease from anger; give not way to wrath; Be not provoked, so as to do evil!
For evil-doers shall be rooted out; But they who trust in the LORD, they shall inherit the land.
Yet a little while, and the wicked shall be no more; Thou mayst look for his place, and he will not be found.
But the meek shall inherit the land, And delight themselves in the fulness of prosperity.
The wicked man plotteth against the just, And gnasheth at him with his teeth.
The Lord laugheth at him; For he seeth that his day is coming.
The wicked draw the sword, And bend their bow, To cast down the afflicted and the needy, And to slay the upright.
Their swords shall enter their own hearts, And their bows shall be broken in pieces.
Better is the little of the righteous man Than the great abundance of the wicked;
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, But the LORD will uphold the righteous.
The LORD careth for the life of the upright, And their inheritance shall endure for ever.
They shall not be ashamed in the evil time, And in the days of famine they shall have enough.
But the wicked shall perish; Yea, the enemies of the LORD shall be consumed, like the glory of the fields; They shall be consumed into smoke.
The wicked borroweth, and repayeth not; But the righteous is merciful and bountiful.
For they who are blessed by God shall inherit the land, And they who are cursed by him shall be rooted out.
The steps of the good man are directed by the LORD; He delighteth himself in his way.
Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, For the LORD holdeth him by the hand.
I have been young, and now am old; Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, Nor his offspring begging bread.
He is ever merciful and lendeth, And his offspring shall be blessed.
Depart from evil, and do good; So thou shalt dwell in the land for ever.
For the LORD loveth righteousness, And forsaketh not his servants; They are preserved for ever; But the posterity of the wicked shall be rooted out.
The righteous shall inherit the land, And shall dwell therein for ever.
The mouth of the righteous uttereth wisdom, And his tongue speaketh what is right.
The law of his God is in his heart; His footsteps shall not slip.
The wicked watcheth the righteous, And seeketh to slay him;
The Lord will not leave him in his hand, Nor suffer him to be condemned, when he is judged.
Trust in the LORD, and keep his way, And he will exalt thee to the possession of the land, Whilst thou shalt see the destruction of the wicked!
I have seen a wicked man in great power, And spreading himself like a green cedar;
But he passed away, and, lo! he was no more; Yea, I sought him, but he was not found.
Mark the righteous man, and behold the upright, That posterity is to the man of peace!
But transgressors will all be destroyed; The posterity of the wicked shall be rooted out.
The salvation of the just is from the LORD. He is their strength in the time of trouble.
The LORD will help and deliver them; He will deliver them from their enemies, and save them, Because they trust in him.