Now, the sons of Aaron, had their courses,—the sons of Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar;
but Nadab and Abihu, died, before their father, and sons, had they none,—but Eleazar and Ithamar became priests;
and David apportioned to them courses, both to Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and to Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar,—by their appointed place in their service.
But the sons of Eleazar were found to be more numerous, by the chiefs of their able men, than were the sons of Ithamar, so they divided them,—the sons of Eleazar, had chiefs, of the ancestral house, sixteen, whereas, the sons of Ithamar, had of their ancestral house, eight.
They divided them, therefore, by [casting] lots, these with those,—for there were princes of the sanctuary, and princes of God, from among the sons of Eleazar, and among the sons of Ithamar.
And Shemaiah son of Nethanel the scribe from among the Levites, wrote them down, before the king and the rulers and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and the ancestral chiefs, pertaining to the priests and to the Levites,—one ancestral house, was taken for Eleazar, and, was equally taken, for Ithamar.
So then the first lot came forth for Jehoiarib, for Jedaiah, the second;
for Harim, the third, for Seorim, the fourth;
for Malchijah, the fifth, for Mijamin, the sixth;
for Hakkoz, the seventh, for Abijah, the eighth;
for Jeshua, the ninth, for Shecaniah, the tenth;
for Eliashib, the eleventh, for Jakim, the twelfth;
for Huppah, the thirteenth, for Jeshebeab, the fourteenth;
for Bilgah, the fifteenth, for Immer, the sixteenth;
for Hezir, the seventeenth, for Happizzez, the eighteenth;
for Pethahiah, the nineteenth, for Jehezkel, the twentieth;
for Jachin, the twenty-first, for Gamul, the twenty-second;
for Delaiah, the twenty-third, for Maaziah, the twenty-fourth.
These, were their appointed places for their service, for entering the house of Yahweh, according to the regulation of them, by the hand of Aaron their father,—just as Yahweh God of Israel, commanded him.
Now, as for the sons of Levi who remained, of the sons of Amram, Shubael, of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
Of Rehabiah, of the sons of Rehabiah, the chief Isshiah;
of the Izharites, Shelomoth,—of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath;
and, the sons [of Hebron], Jeriah,—Amariah, the second, Jehaziel, the third, Jekameam, the fourth;
the sons of Uzziel, Micah, of the sons of Micah, Shamir;
the brother of Micah, Isshiah, of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
The sons of Merari, Mahli and Mushi,—the sons of Jaaziah, Beno;
the sons of Merari, of Jaaziah, Beno, and Shoham and Zaccur and Ibri:
of Mahli, Eleazar, who had no sons;
of Kish—the sons of Kish, Jerameel;
and, the sons of Mushi, Mahli and Eder and Jerimoth. These, were the sons of the Levites, belonging to their ancestral house.
Moreover, they also, cast lots along with their brethren the sons of Aaron, before David the king and Zadok and Ahimelech, and the ancestral chiefs, pertaining to the priests and to the Levites, the ancestral chief along with his younger brethren.