Hear the word of Yahweh, ye sons of Israel,—that, a controversy, hath Yahweh with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no faithfulness, nor lovingkindness, nor knowledge of God, in the land:
Cursing and lying, and killing and stealing, and committing adultery, have broken forth, and, blood-shedding, unto blood-shedding, doth extend.
For this cause, shall the land mourn, and everyone who dwelleth therein shall languish, with the wild beast of the field and with the bird of the heavens,—moreover also, the fishes of the sea, shall be withdrawn.
Howbeit let, no man, contend, nor let him rebuke another,—since, thy people, are as they who contend against a priest:
So shouldst thou stumble in the daytime, and even the prophet stumble with thee, in the night,—and I should destroy thine own mother.
My people, are destroyed, for lack of knowledge,—Because, thou, hast rejected knowledge, therefore will I reject thee from ministering as priest unto me, and, because thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I also, will forget thy children.
As they were magnified, so, they sinned against me,—My glory—for what was contemptible, did they exchange.
The sin of my people, they do eat,—and. unto their iniquity, lift they up every man his desire.
So doth it come to be—like people, like priest,—therefore will I visit upon him his ways, and, his doings, will I bring back to him;
And they shall eat, and not be satisfied, they have encouraged unchastity, yet have not been making increase,—for unto, Yahweh, have they left off giving heed:—
Unchastity, and wine, and new wine, take away the heart.
My people, of their Wood, do ask,—Let, their Staff, then tell them,—for, the spirit of unchastity, hath led them astray, and they have unchastely departed from under their God.
On the headlands of the mountains, they sacrifice, and, on the hills, burn they incense, under oak and poplar and terebinth, because, pleasant, is the shade thereof: For this cause, do your daughters, become unchaste, and, your brides, commit adultery.
I do not bring punishment upon your daughters when they become unchaste, nor upon your brides, when they commit adultery, for, the men themselves, with unchaste women, do seclude themselves, and, with the common women of the shrine, do offer sacrifice,—and, a people who will not discern, must be ruined.
Though unchaste art thou, O Israel, let not Judah, become guilty, neither let them enter Gilgal, nor go up to Beth-aven, and [then] swear, By the life of Yahweh!
For, as a heifer that is stubborn, hath Israel, been stubborn,—Now, can Yahweh, turn them out to pasture, like a young ram in a wide place?
Mated with idols, is Ephraim, let him alone.
Their drinking-bout, having passed,—they became, unchaste, they loved wildly, a contempt, became her great men.
The wind hath bound her up in its wings,—that they may be ashamed, because of their sacrifices.