And Elijah the Tishbite, of the sojourners of Gilead, said to Ahab, As the LORD God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, except according to my word.
And the word of the LORD came to him, saying,
Go away from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, before Jordan.
And it shall be, you shall drink of the brook. And I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.
So he went and did according to the word of the LORD. For he went and lived by the torrent Cherith, before Jordan.
And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the torrent.
And it happened after a while, the torrent dried up, because there had been no rain in the land.
And the word of the LORD came to him, saying,
Arise, go to Zarephath which belongs to Sidon, and live there. Behold, I have commanded a widow to keep you there.
And he arose and went to Zarephath, and came in to the entrance of the city, and, behold, the widow was gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, Please, bring me a little water in a vessel so that I may drink.
And as she was going to bring it, he called to her and said, Please, bring me a piece of bread in your hand.
And she said, As the LORD your God lives, I do not have a cake, but only a handful of meal in a pitcher and a little oil in a jar. And behold, I am gathering two sticks, so that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, so that we may eat it and die.
And Elijah said to her, Do not fear, go. Do as you have said. But first make me a little cake of it, and bring it to me. And then make for you and for your son.
For so says the LORD God of Israel, The pitcher of meal shall not be emptied, nor shall the jar of oil fail, until the day that the LORD sends rain on the earth.
And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah. And she and he and her house ate many days;
the pitcher of meal was not consumed, and the jar of oil did not fail, according to the word of the LORD which He spoke by Elijah.
And it happened after these things the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick. And his sickness was so severe that there was no breath left in him.
And she said to Elijah, What do I have to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to me to call my sin to remembrance and to kill my son?
And he said to her, Give me your son. And he took him out of her bosom and carried him up into a loft, where he stayed, and laid him on his own bed.
And he cried to the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, have You also brought evil on the widow with whom I am staying, by slaying her son?
And he stretched himself on the child three times, and cried to the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, please let this child's soul come to him again.
And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came into him again, and he lived.
And Elijah took the child and brought him down out of the room into the house and delivered him to his mother. And Elijah said, See! Your son lives!
And the woman said to Elijah, Now I know this, that you are a man of God, and that the word of the LORD in your mouth is truth.