The righteous one perishes, and no one lays it to heart, and merciful men are taken away; no one cares that the righteous is taken away from the face of evil.
He shall enter into peace; they shall rest in their beds, each one walking in his uprightness.
But draw near here, sons of the sorceress, seed of the adulterer and the harlot.
Of whom are you making sport? Against whom do you make a wide mouth and draw out the tongue? Are you not children of transgression, a lying seed,
being inflamed with idols under every green tree, killing the little sons in the valleys under the clefts of the rocks?
Among the smooth stones of the stream is your portion; they, even they, are your lot; even to them you have poured a drink offering, you have offered a food offering. Should I be consoled over these?
On a lofty and high mountain you have set your bed; even there you went up to offer sacrifice.
Also behind the door and the post you have set up your image; for you uncovered yourself and went up from Me. You spread your bed and cut a covenant with them; you loved their bed where you looked.
And you went to the king with ointment, and increased your perfumes, and sent your messengers far off, and lowered yourself even to hell.
You are wearied in the length of your way; you did not say, Despair! You found life in your hand; so you were not weak.
And of whom have you been afraid or feared, that you have lied and have not remembered Me, nor laid it to your heart? Have I not been silent, even from forever, and you did not fear Me?
I will declare your righteousness, and your works; for they shall not do you any good.
When you cry, let your gathering deliver you; but the wind shall carry them all away. Vanity shall take them; but he who puts his trust in Me shall possess the land, and shall inherit My holy mountain.
And He shall say, Raise up! Raise up! Clear the way! Make the stumbling-block rise out of the way of My people.
For so says the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity; whose name is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, even with the contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones.
For I will not contend forever, nor will I be always angry; for the spirit should fail before Me, and the souls I have made.
For the iniquity of his covetousness I was angry and struck him; I hid Myself, and was angry, and he went on turning away in the way of his heart.
I have seen his ways, and will heal him. I will also lead him, and restore comforts to him and to his mourners.
I create the fruit of the lips; peace, peace, to him far off, and to him near, says the LORD; and I will heal him.
But the wicked are like the troubled sea, which cannot rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt.
There is no peace, says my God, to the wicked.