Paul, a slave of Jesus Christ, a called apostle, separated to the gospel of God,
which He promised before through His prophets in holy Scriptures,
concerning His Son who came of the seed of David according to flesh,
who was marked out Son of God in power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by resurrection of the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord;
by whom we received grace and apostleship to obedience of faith among all the nations, for His name's sake,
among whom are you also, called-out ones of Jesus Christ;
to all those who are in Rome, beloved of God, called-out saints, Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of in all the world.
For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of His Son, how without ceasing I make mention of you
always at my prayers, beseeching if by any means now at length I shall be blessed by the will of God to come to you.
For I long to see you, that I may impart some spiritual gift to you, for the establishing of you;
and this is to be comforted together among you, through the faith in one another, both yours and mine.
But I do not wish you to be ignorant, brothers, that often I purposed to come to you, and was kept back until the present, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among the other nations.
I am a debtor both to Greeks and to foreigners, both to wise, and to foolish,
so as far as in me lies , I am eager to preach the gospel to you in Rome also.
For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation to everyone believing, both to Jew first, and to Greek;
for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith; even as it has been written, "But the just shall live by" "faith." Hab. 2:4
For God's wrath is revealed from Heaven on all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, holding the truth in unrighteousness,
because the thing known of God is clearly known within them, for God revealed it to them.
for the unseen things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things made, both His eternal power and Godhead, for them to be without excuse.
Because knowing God, they did not glorify Him as God, nor were thankful. But they became vain in their reasonings, and their undiscerning heart was darkened.
Professing to be wise, they became foolish
and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into a likeness of an image of corruptible man, and of birds, and four-footed animals, and creeping things.
Because of this, God gave them up to impurity in the lusts of their hearts, their bodies to be dishonored among themselves,
who changed the truth of God into the lie, and worshiped and served the created thing more than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
Because of this, God gave them up to dishonorable passions, for even their females changed the natural use to that contrary to nature.
And likewise, the males also forsaking the natural use of the female burned in their lust toward one another, males with males working out shamefulness, and receiving back within themselves the reward which was fitting for their error.
And even as they did not think fit to have God in their knowledge, God gave them up to a reprobate mind, to do the things not right,
having been filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, iniquity, covetousness, malice, being full of envy, murder, quarrels, deceit, evil habits, becoming whisperers,
slanderers, God-haters, insolent, proud, braggarts, devisers of evil things, disobedient to parents,
without discernment, perfidious, without natural affection, unforgiving, unmerciful,
who knowing the righteous order of God, that those practicing such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also applaud those practicing them .