LET us fear then lest, though a promise be left of entering into his rest, any one of you should appear to fail of obtaining it.
For we are hearing the same gospel preached as they did; but the word heard did not profit them, not being incorporated by faith with those who heard it.
For we who have believed, have entered into the rest, even as he said, “So, I sware in my wrath, that they shall not enter into my rest;” and that notwithstanding the works were done from the foundation of the world.
For he said in a certain passage concerning the seventh day to this purport, “And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.”
And in this passage again, “They shall not enter into my rest.”
Forasmuch therefore as it remaineth for some to enter into it, and they who first had the gospel preached to them entered not in because of unbelief;
again he limiteth a certain day, saying by David, To-day, after so long a time; as it is said, “To-day if ye will hear his voice harden not your hearts.”
For if Joshua had given them the rest, he would not afterwards have spoken of another day.
A sabbatical rest then still remaineth for the people of God.
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath rested from his works, as God did from his own.
Let us then earnestly endeavour to enter into that rest, lest any person fall after the same example of unbelief.
For the word of God is quickening, and energetic, and sharper than every two-edged sword, and piercing through and through, so as to divide both soul and spirit, both joints and spinal marrow, and critically judges the thoughts and intents of the heart.
Even creation is not invisible before him, but all things are naked, and fully displayed before his eyes, to whom we must give our account.
Having then a great high-priest passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
For we have not an high-priest incapable of a fellow-feeling with our infirmities, but one tempted in all points, in exact resemblance with ourselves, sin excepted.
Let us therefore approach with boldness the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace for seasonable help.