And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy to them,
and say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of lord Jehovah. Thus says the lord Jehovah to the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.
And your altars shall become desolate, and your sun-images shall be broken, and I will cast down your slain men before your idols.
And I will lay the dead bodies of the sons of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.
In all your dwelling places the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be desolate, that your altars may be laid waste and made desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your sun-images may be hewn down, and your works may be abolished.
And the slain shall fall in the midst of you. And ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
Yet I will leave a remnant, in that ye shall have some who escape the sword among the nations, when ye shall be scattered through the countries.
And those of you who escape shall remember me among the nations where they shall be carried captive, how I have broken with their lewd heart, which has departed from me, and with their eyes, which play the harlot after their idols. And they shall loathe themselves in their own sight for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.
And they shall know that I am Jehovah. I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: Smite with thy hand, and stamp with thy foot, and say, Alas! because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel, for they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence.
He who is far off shall die of the pestilence, and he who is near shall fall by the sword, and he who remains and is besieged shall die by the famine. Thus I will accomplish my wrath upon them.
And ye shall know that I am Jehovah when their slain men shall be among their idols round about their altars, upon every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the places where they offered sweet savor to all their idols.
And I will stretch out my hand upon them, and make the land desolate and waste, from the wilderness toward Diblah, throughout all their habitations. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.