And I saw, upon the right hand of him that was sitting upon the throne, a scroll; written within, and on the back, sealed up with seven seals.
And I saw a mighty messenger, proclaiming with a loud voice—Who is worthy to open the scroll, and to unloose the seals thereof?
And, no one, was able, in heaven, or on earth, or under the earth, to open the scroll, or, to look thereon.
And, I, began to weep much, because, no one, worthy, was found, to open the scroll, or, to look thereon.
And, one of the elders, saith unto me—Do not weep! Lo! the lion that is of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath overcome, to open the scroll and the seven seals thereof.
And I saw, in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb, standing, showing that it had been slain,—having seven horns, and seven eyes, which are the [seven] Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
And he came, and at once took [it] out of the right hand of him that was sitting upon the throne.
And, when he took the scroll, the four living creatures, and the four-and-twenty elders, fell down before the Lamb, having, each one, a harp, and bowls of gold full of incense,—which are the prayers of the saints;
and they sing a new song, saying—Worthy, art thou, to take the scroll and to open the seals thereof; because thou wast slain, and didst redeem unto God by thy blood [men] out of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation,
And didst make them, unto our God, a kingdom and priests,—and they reign on the earth.
And I saw, and heard a voice of many messengers, round about the throne and the living creatures and the elders,—and the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands—
saying with a loud voice—Worthy, is the Lamb that hath been slain, to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and might, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
And, every created thing which was in heaven, and upon the earth, and under the earth, and upon the sea, and, all the things in them, heard I, saying—Unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb, be the blessing, and the honour, and the glory, and the dominion, unto the ages of ages!
And the four living creatures continued saying—Amen! And, the elders, fell down and did homage.