And when it was decided for us to sail to Italy, they delivered up both Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of a cohort of Augustus.
And boarding a ship of Adramyttium which was about to sail alongside Asian places, we set sail, Aristarchus a Macedonian of Thessalonica being with us.
And on the next day we landed at Sidon. And treating Paul kindly, Julius allowed him to go to his friends to receive care.
And setting sail from there, we sailed close to Cyprus, because of the winds being contrary.
And sailing over the sea against Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra of Lycia.
And the centurion finding there an Alexandrian ship sailing to Italy, he put us into it.
And in many days, sailing slowly and with difficulty, hardly coming against Cnidus, the wind not allowing us, we sailed close to Crete against Salmone.
And coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a certain place named Fair Havens, near to which was a city, Lasea.
And much time having passed, and the voyage already being dangerous, because the Fast already had gone by, Paul warned them ,
saying, Men, I see that the voyage is about to be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and of the ship, but also of our souls.
But the centurion was rather persuaded by the helmsman and the ship master, than by the things spoken by Paul.
And the port not being fit for wintering, the most gave counsel to set sail from there, if somehow they may be able to pass the winter, arriving at Phoenix, a port of Crete looking toward the southwest and toward the northwest.
And a south wind blowing gently, thinking to have gained the purpose, raising anchor they sailed along close by Crete.
And not much after, a stormy wind being called Euroclydon beat down on it.
And the ship being seized, and not being able to beat against the wind, giving way we were borne along.
But running under an islet being called Clauda, we were hardly able to get mastery of the boat;
which taking, they used helps, undergirding the ship. And fearing lest they fall into Syrtis, lowering the tackle, so they were borne along.
But we having been exceedingly storm tossed, they made a casting on the next day .
And on the third day they threw out the ship's tackle with their hands.
And neither sun nor stars appearing over many days, and no small tempest pressing hard, now all hope of our being saved was taken away.
And there being much fasting, then standing up in their midst, Paul said, Truly, O men, being obedient to me you ought not to have set sail from Crete, and to have come by this injury and loss.
And now I exhort you to be cheered, for there will be no casting away of soul from among you, only of the ship.
For tonight stood by me an angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve,
saying, Do not fear, Paul, You must stand before Caesar. And, behold, God has granted to you all those sailing with you.
Therefore, be cheered, men, for I believe God, that it will be so according to the way it was spoken to me.
But we must fall on a certain island.
And when the fourteenth night came, we being carried about in the Adriatic Sea, toward the middle of the night the sailors supposed us to come near some country.
And sounding, they found twenty fathoms; and moving a little and sounding again, they found fifteen fathoms.
And fearing lest they should fall on rock places, and casting four anchors out of the stern, they wished day to come.
But the sailors seeking to flee out of the ship, and lowering the boat into the sea, pretending to be about to cast out anchors from the prow,
Paul said to the centurion, and to the soldiers, Unless these remain in the ship, you cannot be saved.
Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat, and let it fall.
And until day was about to come, Paul begged all to partake of food, saying, Today is the fourteenth day you continued waiting without food, not having taken anything.
Because of this I beg you to take of food, for this is to your deliverance, for not a hair of your head shall perish.
And saying these things, and taking bread, he gave thanks to God before all; and breaking, he began to eat.
And all having become cheered, they also took food.
And we were, all the souls in the ship, two hundred seventy six.
And being filled with food, they lightened the ship, throwing the wheat out into the sea.
And when day came, they did not recognize the land, but they noted a certain bay having a shore, into which they purposed, if they were able, to drive the ship.
And casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the bands of the rudders, and raising the foresail to the breeze, they held to the shore.
And coming on a place between two seas, they drove the vessel. And indeed the prow having stuck firmly, it remained. But the stern was broken by the violence of the waves.
And the mind of the soldiers was that they should kill the prisoners, lest any swimming out should escape.
But being minded to save Paul, the centurion kept them back from their purpose and commanded those able to swim, first casting themselves overboard, to go out on the land.
And the rest went , some indeed on boards, and others on some of the things from the ship. And so it happened that all were saved on the land.