And after entering into the boat, he passed over, and came into his own city.
And behold, they brought to him a paralyzed man who was placed on a bed. And having seen their faith Jesus said to the paralyzed man, Cheer up, child, thy sins have been forgiven thee.
And behold, some of the scholars said within themselves, This man blasphemes.
And having known their thoughts Jesus said, Why think ye evil in your hearts?
For which is easier, to say, Thy sins have been forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and walk?
But that ye may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins (then he says to the paralyzed man), After rising, take up thy bed, and go to thy house.
And after rising, he departed to his house.
But when the multitudes saw it, they marveled, and glorified God, who gave such authority to men.
And passing forth from there, Jesus saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office. And he says to him, Follow me. And after rising, he followed him.
And it came to pass while he relaxed in the house, and behold, many tax collectors and sinners having come, they were sitting with Jesus and his disciples.
And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with the tax collectors and sinners?
But Jesus having heard it, he said to them, Those who are strong have no need of a physician, but those who fare badly.
But after going, learn what this means, I desire mercy, and not sacrifice, for I came not to call the righteous, but sinners for repentance.
Then the disciples of John come to him, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast much, but thy disciples fast not?
And Jesus said to them, The sons of the wedding hall cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them. But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast.
And no man puts a patch of new cloth upon an old garment, for the patch of it pulls from the garment, and a tear becomes worse.
Neither do they put new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise the wineskins burst, and the wine is spilled, and the wineskins will perish. But they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.
While he spoke these things to them, behold, one ruler who came worshiped him, saying, My daughter has just now perished, but after coming, lay thy hand upon her, and she will live.
And having risen, Jesus followed him, also his disciples.
And behold, a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, after coming from behind, touched the edge of his garment.
For she said within herself, If only I may touch his garment, I will be healed.
But having turned around and seen her, Jesus said, Cheer up, daughter, thy faith has healed thee. And the woman was healed from that hour.
And Jesus having come into the ruler's house, and having seen the minstrels, and the crowd making a commotion,
he says to them, Depart, for the little girl did not die, but sleeps. And they ridiculed him.
But when the crowd was put out, having entered in, he took her hand, and the little girl arose.
And this report went forth into all that land.
And when Jesus departed from there, two blind men followed him, crying out, and saying, Be merciful to us, thou son of David.
And when he came into the house, the blind men came to him. And Jesus says to them, Believe ye that I am able to do this? They say to him, Yes, Lord.
Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith may it happen to you.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus strictly warned them, saying, See that no man knows it.
But having departed, they widely proclaimed him in all that land.
And after they departed, behold, they brought to him a mute man possessed with a demon.
And when the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke. And the multitudes marveled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel.
But the Pharisees said, By the ruler of the demons he casts out demons.
And Jesus went about all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people.
But when he saw the multitudes, he felt compassion for them, because they were troubled and dejected, as sheep having no shepherd.
Then he says to his disciples, The harvest truly is plentiful, but the workmen are few.
Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth workmen into his harvest.