And the serpent was cunning above every animal of the field which Jehovah God had made. And he said to the woman, Is it true that God has said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden?
And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden,
but of the fruit of the tree in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat of it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die.
And the serpent said to the woman, You shall not surely die,
for God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes shall be opened, and you shall be as God, knowing good and evil.
And the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and the tree was desirable to make one wise. And she took of its fruit and ate; and she also gave to her husband with her, and he ate.
And the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed leaves of the fig tree, and made girdles for themselves.
And they heard the sound of Jehovah God walking up and down in the garden at the breeze of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the face of Jehovah God in the middle of the trees of the garden.
And Jehovah God called to the man and said to him, Where are you?
And he said, I have heard Your sound in the garden, and I was afraid, for I am naked, and I hid myself.
And He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?
And the man said, The woman whom You gave to be with me, she has given to me of the tree, and I ate.
And Jehovah God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate.
And Jehovah God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, you are cursed above all beasts, and above every animal of the field. You shall go on your belly, and you shall eat dust all the days of your life.
And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed; He will bruise your head, and you shall bruise His heel.
He said to the woman, I will greatly increase your sorrow and your conception; you shall bear sons in sorrow, and your desire shall be toward your husband; and he shall rule over you.
And He said to the man, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree about which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat from it, the ground shall be cursed because of you; you shall eat of it in sorrow all the days of your life.
And it shall bring forth thorns and thistles for you, and you shall eat the plant of the field.
By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread until your return to the ground. For you have been taken out of it; for you are dust, and to dust you shall return.
And the man called the name of his wife, Eve; because she became the mother of all living.
And Jehovah God made coats of skin for the man and his wife, and clothed them.
And Jehovah God said, Behold! The man has become as one of Us, to know good and evil. And now, lest he put forth his hand and also take from the Tree of Life, and eat, and live forever,
Jehovah God sent him out of the garden of Eden to till the ground out of which he was taken.
And He drove the man out. And He lodged the cherubs at the east of the Garden of Eden, and the flaming sword whirling around to guard the way of the Tree of Life.