And it happened, after this, that David struck the Philistines, and humbled them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he struck Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David, bringing a tribute.
And David struck Hadarezer the king of Zobah at Hamath, as he went to establish his power by the Euphrates River;
and David captured from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses , but left of them a hundred chariots.
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer the king of Zobah, then David struck twenty two thousand men of the Syrians.
And David placed men in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David, bringing a tribute. And Jehovah preserved David wherever he went.
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
And from Tibhath and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer, David brought very much bronze (with it Solomon made the bronze sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of bronze).
And Tou the king of Hamath heard that David had struck the whole army of Hadarezer the king of Zobah,
and he sent his son Hadoram to king David, to ask peace of him, and to bless him because he had fought against Hadarezer, and had struck him; for Hadarezer had been a man of war with Tou; and he sent all vessels of gold and silver and bronze;
also these king David sanctified to Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he had taken from all the nations, from Edom, and from Moab, and from the Ammonites, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.
And Abishai the son of Zeruiah had killed eighteen thousand of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt;
and he put command posts in Edom, and all the Edomites were servants to David. And Jehovah preserved David wherever he went.
And David reigned over all Israel, and he executed judgment and justice among all his people.
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe;
and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were first ones at the hand of the king.