Then Moses and the sons of Israel sang this song to Jehovah, and spoke, saying, I will sing to Jehovah, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.
Jehovah is my strength and song, and he has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him, my father's God, and I will exalt him.
Jehovah is a man of war. Jehovah is his name.
Pharaoh's chariots and his army he has cast into the sea, and his chosen captains are sunk in the Red Sea.
The deeps cover them. They went down into the depths like a stone.
Thy right hand, O Jehovah, is glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Jehovah, dashes the enemy in pieces.
And in the greatness of thine excellency thou overthrow those who rise up against thee. Thou send forth thy wrath, it consumes them as stubble.
And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were piled up. The floods stood up as a heap. The deeps were congealed in the heart of the sea.
The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil, my desire shall be satisfied upon them. I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them.
Thou did blow with thy wind, the sea covered them. They sank as lead in the mighty waters.
Who is like thee, O Jehovah, among the gods? Who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?
Thou stretched out thy right hand, the earth swallowed them.
Thou in thy loving kindness have led the people that thou have redeemed. Thou have guided them in thy strength to thy holy habitation.
The peoples have heard, they tremble. Pangs have taken hold on the inhabitants of Philistia.
Then the chiefs of Edom were dismayed, the mighty men of Moab. Trembling takes hold upon them. All the inhabitants of Canaan are melted away.
Terror and dread falls upon them. By the greatness of thine arm they are as still as a stone, till thy people pass over, O Jehovah, till the people pass over whom thou have purchased.
Thou will bring them in, and plant them on the mountain of thine inheritance, the place, O Jehovah, which thou have made for thee to dwell in, the sanctuary, O Lord, which thy hands have established.
Jehovah shall reign forever and ever.
For the horses of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and Jehovah brought back the waters of the sea upon them, but the sons of Israel walked on dry land in the midst of the sea.
And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances.
And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to Jehovah, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.
And Moses led Israel onward from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur. And they went three days in the wilderness, and found no water.
And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters of Marah, for they were bitter. Therefore the name of it was called Marah.
And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?
And he cried to Jehovah. And Jehovah showed him a tree, and he cast it into the waters, and the waters were made sweet. There he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he proved them,
and he said, If thou will diligently hearken to the voice of Jehovah thy God, and will do that which is right in his eyes, and will give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases upon thee, which I have put upon the Egyptians, for I am Jehovah who heals thee.
And they came to Elim, where were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there by the waters.