And when He had ended all His words in the ears of the people, He entered into Capernaum.
And a certain servant of a centurion who was dear to him, was sick and ready to die.
And when he heard of Jesus, he sent the elders of the Jews to Him, begging Him that He would come and heal his servant.
And coming to Jesus, they begged Him earnestly, saying that he was worthy, he for whom You give this;
for, they said, He loves our nation, and he has built us a synagogue.
Then Jesus went with them. But He being yet not far off from the house, the centurion sent friends to Him, saying to Him, Lord, do not trouble Yourself. For I am not worthy that You should enter under my roof.
Therefore neither did I think myself worthy to come to You; but say a word, and my servant will be healed.
For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers. And I say to one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does it.
And hearing these things, Jesus marveled at him. And turning to the crowd following Him, He said, I say to you, I have not found such faith, no, not in Israel.
And they who were sent, returning to the house, found the sick servant well.
And it happened on the next day, He went into a city called Nain. And many of His disciples and a great crowd went with Him.
And drawing near the gate of the city, even behold, one having died was being carried out, an only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a considerable crowd of the city was with her.
And when the Lord saw her, He had compassion on her and said to her, Do not weep.
And He came and touched the bier. And the ones who bore him stood still. And He said, Young man, I say to you, Arise!
And the one who was dead sat up and began to speak. And He delivered him to his mother.
And fear came on all. And they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has risen up among us; and, God has visited His people.
And this report of Him went out in all Judea, and in all the neighborhood.
And his disciples reported all these things to John.
And John, calling near a certain two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, Are You He that should come, or do we look for another?
And coming to Him, the men said, John the Baptist has sent us to You, saying, Are You He who should come, or do we look for another?
And in the same hour He cured many of infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits. And He gave sight to many who were blind.
And answering, Jesus said to them, Go and tell John what you have seen and heard; that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the gospel is proclaimed to the poor.
And blessed is he who shall not be offended in Me.
And when the messengers of John had departed, He began to speak to the people concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man clothed with soft clothing? Behold, those in splendid clothing and being in luxury are in kings' palaces.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet.
This is he of whom it is written, "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who shall prepare Your way before You."
For I say to you, Among those who are born of woman there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
And all the people and the tax-collectors who heard Him justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, not being baptized by him.
And the Lord said, To what then shall I compare the men of this generation? And to what are they like?
They are like children sitting in a market and calling to one another, and saying, We have played the flute to you, and you have not danced; we have mourned to you, and you did not weep.
For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, He has a demon.
The Son of man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold a gluttonous man and a winebibber, a friend of tax-collectors and sinners!
But wisdom has been justified by all her children.
And one of the Pharisees asked Him to eat with him. And going into the Pharisee's house, He reclined.
And behold, a woman, a sinner in the city, knowing that He reclined in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster vial of ointment.
And she stood behind Him, weeping at His feet, and she began to wash His feet with tears and wipe them with the hair of her head. And she ardently kissed His feet and anointed them with the ointment.
But seeing this, the Pharisee who had invited Him, spoke within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what kind of woman this is who touches him, for she is a sinner.
And answering, Jesus said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he said, Teacher, speak.
There was a certain creditor who had two debtors. The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
And they having nothing to pay, he freely forgave both. Then which of them do you say will love him most?
And answering, Simon said, I suppose that one to whom he forgave most. And He said to him, You have judged rightly.
And He turned to the woman and said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered into your house, yet you gave Me no water for My feet. But she has washed My feet with tears, and has wiped them with the hair of her head.
You gave Me no kiss, but this woman, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss My feet.
You did not anoint My head with oil, but this woman has anointed My feet with ointment.
Therefore I say to you, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, he loves little.
And He said to her, Your sins are forgiven.
And those reclining with Him began to say within themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins?
And He said to the woman, Your faith has saved you, go in peace.