And Yahweh appeared unto him among the oaks of Mamre,—as, he, was sitting at the opening of the tent in the heat of the day.
And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo! three men, standing over against him,—so he looked and ran to meet them from the opening of the tent, and bowed himself to the earth;
and said,—O My Lord! if, I pray thee, I have found favour in thine eyes, do not I pray thee pass on from thy servant.
Let there be fetched, I pray thee a little water, and bathe ye your feet,—and rest yourselves under the tree.
And let me fetch a morsel of bread, and stay ye your heart, Afterwards, ye may pass on, For on this account, have ye passed by, over against your servant. And they said, Thus, shalt thou do as thou hast spoken.
So Abraham hastened towards the tent unto Sarah,—and said, Hasten thou three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make hearth-cakes.
And unto the herd, ran Abraham,—and took a calf tender and good and gave unto the young man, and he hastened to make it ready.
And he took butter and milk and the calf that he had made ready, and set before them,—while, he, was standing near them under the tree, they did eat.
And they said unto him, As to Sarah thy wife… And he said Lo! [she is] in the tent.
And he said, I will, surely return, unto thee at the quickening season,—and lo! a son for Sarah thy wife. Now Sarah, was hearkening at the opening of the tent, it, being behind him.
But Abraham and Sarah, were old, far gone in days,—it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
So then Sarah laughed within herself, saying: After I am past age, hath there come to me pleasure, my lord, also being old?
And Yahweh said unto Abraham,—Wherefore now did Sarah laugh saying. Can it really and truly be that I should bear, seeing that I have become old?
Is anything, too wonderful for Yahweh? At the appointed time, I will return unto thee, at the quickening season and Sarah, shall have a son.
And Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not, For she was afraid. And he said—Nay! but thou didst laugh!
And the men rose up from thence, and looked out over the face of Sodom,—Abraham also going with them to set them on their way.
Now, Yahweh, had said,—Am I going to hide from Abraham what I do,
when, Abraham, shall surely become, a great and mighty nation,—and all the nations of the earth, shall be blessed in him?
For I have become his intimate friend, To the end that he may command his sons and his house after him, so shall they keep the way of Yahweh, by doing righteousness and justice. To the end that Yahweh may bring in for Abraham, what he hath spoken concerning him.
So Yahweh said, The outcry of Sodom and Gomorrah, because it hath become great,—And their sin, because it hath become exceeding grievous,
Let me go down, pray, and let me behold, whether according to their outcry which hath come in unto me, they have done altogether, And if not. I must know!
And the men turned from thence, and went their way, towards Sodom,—but, Yahweh was yet standing before Abraham.
So then Abraham drew near and said, Wilt thou really sweep away, the righteous with the lawless?
Peradventure there are fifty righteous, in the midst of the city, Wilt thou really sweep away, and not spare the place, for the sake of the fifty righteous which are therein?
Far be it from thee! to do after this manner. to put to death the righteous with the lawless! Then should righteous and lawless be alike, Far be it from thee! Shall, the Judge of all the earth not do justice?
And Yahweh said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous in the midst of the city, then will I spare all the place for their sake.
And Abraham responded and said,—Behold I pray thee I have ventured to speak unto My Lord, though I am dust and ashes:
Peradventure there may lack, of the fifty righteous, five, Wilt thou destroy for five all the city? And he said, I will not destroy, if I find there forty and five.
And he added, yet once more, to speak unto him, and said, Peradventure there may be found there—forty. And he said—I will not do it, for the sake of the forty.
And he said Let it not, I pray thee, be vexing to My Lord, but let me speak, Peradventure there may be found there—thirty And he said, I will not to it, if I find there—thirty.
And he said Behold, I pray thee, I have ventured to speak unto My Lord, Peradventure there may be found there—twenty. And he said I will not destroy it, for the sake of the twenty.
And he said, Let it not, I pray thee, be vexing to My Lord, but let me speak only this once, Peradventure there may be found there—ten. And he said, I will not destroy [it], for the sake of the ten!
And Yahweh went his way, when he had made an end. of speaking unto Abraham,—Abraham, also returned to his place.