And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, When you have come to the land of your dwellings, which I am giving to you,
then you shall prepare a fire offering to Jehovah, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice, in fulfillment of a vow, or as a freewill offering, or in your appointed seasons, to make a soothing fragrance to Jehovah, out of the herd, or out of the flock.
And he who is bringing his offering to Jehovah shall bring near a food offering of flour, a tenth part, mixed with a fourth of a hin of oil;
and wine for a drink offering, a fourth of a hin you shall prepare for the burnt offering, or for a sacrifice, for the one lamb.
Or you shall prepare a food offering of flour for a ram, two tenth parts mixed with oil, a third of a hin;
and wine for a drink offering, a third part of a hin. You shall bring it near, a soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And when you prepare a son of the herd for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice, in fulfillment of a vow, or peace offerings to Jehovah,
then he shall bring near for the son of the herd a food offering of flour, three tenth parts, mixed with oil, a half of a hin;
and you shall bring wine near for a drink offering, a half of a hin, as a fire offering of soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
So it shall be done for one ox, or for the one ram, or for a lamb of the sheep, or of the goats.
You shall prepare according to the number. So you shall do for everyone according to their number.
All that are homeborn shall do these things in this way, in bringing in an offering made by fire, of a soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And if an alien lives with you, or whoever may be among you, throughout your generations, and desires to offer a fire offering of a soothing fragrance to Jehovah; as you do, so he shall do.
As for the congregation, there shall be one statute both for you and for the alien that lives with you , a never ending statute throughout your generations; as you are , so shall the alien be before Jehovah.
There shall be one law and one ordinance both for you and for the alien that lives with you.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land to which I bring you,
then it shall be that when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall lift up a heave offering to Jehovah.
You shall lift up a cake of the first of your dough as a heave offering; as the heave offering of the threshing floor, so you shall lift it up.
You shall give of the first of your dough to Jehovah, a heave offering for your generations.
And when you shall err and shall not perform all these commands which Jehovah has spoken to Moses,
even all that Jehovah has commanded you by the hand of Moses from the day that Jehovah commanded, and onward for your generations,
then it shall be, if it be done in error by the congregation, by ignorance, even all the congregation shall offer a son of the herd, one bullock, for a burnt offering, for a soothing fragrance to Jehovah, and its food offering, and its drink offering, according to the ordinance; and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.
And the priest shall atone for all the congregation of the sons of Israel; and it shall be forgiven them. For it was in error, and they have brought their offering, a fire offering to Jehovah, and their sin offering before Jehovah for their error.
And all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and the alien that lives among them, shall be forgiven; for as to all the people, it was in ignorance.
And if one person sins through error, then he shall bring a she goat of the first year for a sin offering.
And the priest shall atone for the soul that errs when he sins through error, before Jehovah, to atone for him. And he shall be forgiven,
both the homeborn among the sons of Israel, and the alien that lives among them; one law shall be to you for him who acts in error.
And the soul that does anything with a high hand, whether of a homeborn or of the alien, the same blasphemes Jehovah. And that person shall be cut off from the midst of his people.
For he has despised the word of Jehovah and has broken His command; that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be on him.
And while the sons of Israel were in the wilderness they found a man gathering sticks on the sabbath day.
And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation.
And they put him under guard; for it had not been declared what should be done to him.
And Jehovah said to Moses, The man shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp.
And all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him with stones. And he died, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and you shall say to them that they shall make themselves fringes on the corners of their garments, for their generations. And they shall put with the fringe of each corner thread of blue.
And It shall be to you for a fringe, that you may look on it and remember all the commandments of Jehovah, and do them; and that you do not go about after your own heart and your own eyes after which you go astray;
that you may remember and do all My commandments, and be holy to your God.
I am Jehovah your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am Jehovah your God.