So then the boundary of the tribe of the sons of Judah, by their families,—reached unto the boundary of Edom, the desert of Zin southward, on the extreme south;
so their south boundary beginneth at the end of the Salt Sea,—from the bay that turneth to the south;
and goeth forth on the south of the cliffs of Akrabbim, and crosseth over to Zin, and goeth up on the south of Kadesh-barnea,—and passeth over by Hezron, and goeth up to Addar, and turneth round to Karka;
and passeth over to Azmon, and goeth forth at the ravine of Egypt, and so the extensions of the boundary are to the sea. This, shall be your south boundary.
And, a boundary eastward, is the Salt Sea, as far as the end of the Jordan. And, the boundary on the north side, is from the bay of the sea, from the end of the Jordan.
And the boundary goeth up Beth-hoglah, and passeth over, on the north, by Beth-arabah,—and the boundary goeth up by the Stone of Bohan, son of Reuben;
and the boundary goeth up towards Debir, out of the vale of Achor, then northward, turning unto Gilgal, which is over against the ascent of Adummim, which is on the south side of the ravine,—then the boundary passeth over unto the waters of En-shemesh, and so the extensions thereof are unto En-rogel:
then ascendeth the boundary by the valley of the son of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite, on the south, the same, is Jerusalem,—and the boundary goeth up unto the top of the mountain which faceth the valley of Hinnom, to the west, which is at the end of the Vale of Giants, northwards;
and the boundary turneth round, from the top of the mountain, unto the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah, and goeth out unto the cities of Mount Ephron,—then the boundary turneth round to Baalah, the same, is Kiriath-jearim;
then the boundary goeth round from Baalah westward, unto Mount Seir, and passeth over unto the slope of Mount Yearim, on the north, the same, is Chesalon,—and descendeth Bethshemesh, and passeth over Timnah;
then the boundary goeth forth unto the side of Ekron, northward, then the boundary turneth round towards Shikkeron, and crosseth over Mount Baalah, and goeth out at Jabneel,—and the extensions of the boundary are to the sea.
And, as a west boundary, are the great sea and coast. This, is the boundary of the sons of Judah, round about, by their families.
And, to Caleb, son of Jephunneh, gave he a portion, in the midst of the sons of Judah, at the bidding of Yahweh, by Joshua,—even the City of Arba, father of Anak, the same, is Hebron.
And Caleb dispossessed from thence, the three sons of Anak,—Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the descendants of Anak.
And he went up from thence, against the inhabitants of Debir,—now, the name of Debir, formerly, was Kiriath-sepher.
Then said Caleb, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and captureth it, I will give unto him Achsah, my daughter, to wife.
And Othniel son of Kenaz, brother of Caleb, captured it,—so he gave unto him Achsah, his daughter, to wife.
And it came to pass, when she came, that she moved him to ask of her father a field, and, when she alighted from off the ass, Caleb said unto her—What aileth thee?
And she said—Give me a present, for, dry land, hast thou given me, therefore must thou give me, pools of water. So he gave her upper pools and lower pools.
This, is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah, by their families.
And the uttermost cities of the tribe of the sons of Judah, towards the boundary of Edom in the south, were,—Kabzeel and Eder, and Jagur,
and Kinah and Dimonah, and Adadah,—
and Kedesh and Hazor, and Ithnan,
Ziph and Talem, and Bealoth,
and Hazor-hadattah and Kerioth-hezron, the same, is Hazor;
Amam and Shema, and Moladah,
and Hazar-gaddah and Heshmon, and Beth-pelet.
and Hazarshual and Beer-sheba, with the hamlets thereof,
Baalah and Iyyim, and Ezem,
and Eltolad and Chesil, and Hormah,
and Ziklag and Madmannah, and Sansannah,
and Lebaoth and Shilhim, and En-rimmon,—all the cities are twenty-nine, with their villages.
In the lowland,—Eshtaol and Zorah, and Ashnah,
and Zanoah and En-gannim, Tappuah, and Enam;
Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah;
and Shaaraim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim,—fourteen cities, with their villages.
Zenan and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad,
and Dilan and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,
Lachish and Bozkath, and Eglon,
and Cabbon and Lahmas, and Chithlish,
and Gederoth, Beth-dagon and Naamah, and Makkedah,—sixteen cities, with their villages.
Libnah and Ether, and Ashan,
and Iphtah and Ashnah, and Nezib,
and Keilah and Achzib, and Mareshah,—nine cities, with their villages.
Ekron with her towns, and her villages.
From Ekron, even unto the sea,—all that were by the side of Ashdod with their villages.
Ashdod, her towns and her villages. Gaza, her towns and her villages, as far as the ravine of Egypt,—and the great sea and coast.
And in the hill-country,—Shamir and Jattir, and Socoh,
and Dannah and Kiriath-sannah, the same, is Debir,
and Anab and Eshtemoh, and Anim,
and Goshen and Holon, and Giloh,—eleven cities, with their villages.
Arab and Rumah and Eshan,
and Janim and Beth-tappuah and Aphekah,
and Humtah, and Kiriath-arba, the same, is Hebron, and Zior,—nine cities, with their villages.
Maon, Carmel, and Ziph and Jutah,
and Jezreel and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,
Kain, Gibeah and Timnah,—ten cities, with their villages.
Halhul, Beth-zur, and Gedor,
and Maarath and Beth-anoth, and Eltekon,—six cities, with their villages.
Kiriath-baal, the same, is Kiriath-jearim, and Rabbah,—two cities, with their villages.
In the desert,—Beth-arabah, Middin, and Secacah,
and Nibshan and the City of Salt, and En-gedi,—six cities, with their villages.
But, as for the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the sons of Judah could not dispossess them,—so the Jebusites have dwelt with the sons of Judah, in Jerusalem, until this day.