The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
And it shall come to pass in the last of the days [or times], [that] the mountain of the LORD'S house shall be confirmed as [the] head of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills; and all the Gentiles shall flow unto it.
And many peoples shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the LORD to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
And he shall judge among the Gentiles and shall rebuke many peoples; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruninghooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
O house of Jacob, come and let us walk in the light of the LORD.
Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob, because they are replenished from the east and [are] soothsayers like the Philistines, and they please themselves in the children of strangers.
Their land is full of silver and gold, neither [is there any] end of their treasures; their land is also full of horses, neither [is there any] end of their chariots:
Their land also is full of idols; they worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made:
And the mean man bows down, and the great man humbles himself; therefore thou shalt not forgive them.
Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust from the terrible presence of the LORD and from the glory of his majesty.
The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and the LORD alone shall be exalted in that day.
For the day of the LORD of the hosts [shall be] upon every [one that is] proud and lofty and upon every [one that is] lifted up; and he shall be brought low:
And upon all the cedars of Lebanon [that are] high and lifted up and upon all the oaks of Bashan,
and upon all the high mountains and upon all the hills [that are] lifted up,
and upon every high tower, and upon every fenced wall,
and upon all the ships of Tarshish and upon all pleasant pictures.
And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be made low; and the LORD alone shall be exalted in that day.
And he shall utterly abolish the idols.
And they shall go into the holes of the rocks and into the caves of the earth, because of the terrible presence of the LORD and because of the glory of his majesty when he shall arise to smite the earth.
In that day man shall cast his idols of silver and his idols of gold (which they made [each one] for himself to worship) into the caves of the moles and of the bats,
to go into the clefts of the rocks and into the caverns of the cliffs from before the fearful presence of the LORD and from the glory of his majesty, when he shall arise to smite the earth.
Cease from man, whose breath [is] in his nostrils; for of what is he to be accounted of?: