And it happened when Jeremiah had finished speaking to all the people all the words of Jehovah their God, for which Jehovah their God had sent him to them all these words,
Azariah, the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the proud men, then spoke, saying to Jeremiah, You speak falsely. Jehovah our God has not sent you to say, Do not go to Egypt, to sojourn there.
But Baruch, the son of Neriah, is inciting you against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they might put us to death, or exile us to Babylon.
And Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the army commanders, and all the people, did not obey the voice of Jehovah, to live in the land of Judah.
But Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the army commanders, took all the remnant of Judah who had returned from all the nations where they had been driven, to sojourn in the land of Judah:
men, women, and children, and the king's daughters, and every person that Nebu-zaradan, the chief of the executioners, had left with Shaphan. Also they took Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch, the son of Neriah.
And they came into the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of Jehovah. And they came to Tahpanhes.
And the word of Jehovah was to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying,
Take great stones to your hand and hide them in the mortar in the brickwork which is at the entrance to Pharaoh's house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah.
And say to them, So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel, Behold I will send and take Nebu-chadnezzar, the king of Babylon, My servant, and will set his throne on these stones that I have hidden. And he shall spread his royal pavilion over them.
And when he comes, he shall strike the land of Egypt. And who ever is for death shall go to death; and whoever is for captivity shall go into captivity; and whoever is for the sword, to the sword.
And I will kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt. And he shall burn them, and take them captive. And he shall adorn himself with the land of Egypt, as a shepherd covers himself with his robe. And he shall go forth from there in peace.
He shall also break the obelisks of The House of the Sun which is in the land of Egypt; and he shall burn the houses of the gods of the Egyptians with fire.