Simon, the high priest, son of Onias: in his life, he propped up the house, and in his days, he strengthened the temple.
Even the height of the temple was established by him: the double building and the high walls of the temple.
In his days, waters flowed out from the wells, and these were full beyond measure, like the sea.
He cared for his nation, and he freed it from perdition.
He prevailed, so as to enlarge the city. And he obtained glory by his behavior among the people. And he enlarged the entrance of the house and of the atrium.
He shined in his days like the morning star through the midst of a cloud, and like the full moon.
And he shined forth in the temple of God in this manner: like the sun when it shines brightly,
and like a rainbow shining amid clouds of glory, and like flowering roses in the days of spring, and like lilies along the water’s edge, and like sweet smelling frankincense in the days of summer,
like a fire shining brightly, and like frankincense burning within a fire,
like a vessel of solid gold, adorned with every precious stone,
like an olive tree producing buds, and like a cypress tree lifting itself on high, when he received the robe of glory and was vested with the consummation of virtue.
He gave glory to the vestment of sanctity, when he ascended to the holy altar.
Then, when he received the portions from the hands of the priests, he himself stood next to the altar. And around him was the crown of his brethren, like a cedar planted on a mountain of Lebanon.
And they stood around him like palm branches, and all were sons of Aaron in their glory.
Then the oblation of the Lord was in their hands, in the sight of the entire synagogue of Israel. And completing his service at the altar, so as to magnify the offering to the Most High King,
he extended his hand to make a libation, and he offered from the blood of the grape.
At the base of the altar, he poured out a divine fragrance to the Most High Prince.
Then the sons of Aaron shouted; they sounded finely-made trumpets, and they made a great noise, as a memorial in the sight of God.
Then all the people at once hurried forward, and they fell to the ground on their faces, to adore the Lord their God, and to offer prayers to Almighty God Most High.
And the singers of Psalms raised their voices, and a full sweet sound increased in the great house.
And the people petitioned the Most High Lord in prayer, even until the honor of the Lord was completed, and they finished offering their gifts.
Then, descending, he extended his hands over the entire congregation of the sons of Israel, to give glory to God from his lips, and to glory in his name.
And he repeated his prayer, wanting to reveal the virtue of God.
And now, pray to the God of all, who has accomplished great things over all the earth, who has increased our days from our mother’s womb, and who has acted toward us in accord with his mercy.
May he give us joyfulness in heart, and may there be peace in our days, in Israel for unending days,
so that Israel may trust the mercy of God to be with us, in order to free us in his days.
Two nations my soul hates, and a third, which I hate, is not a nation:
those who sit upon mount Seir, and the Philistines, and the foolish people who live at Shechem.
Jesus, the son of Sirach, of Jerusalem, who renewed wisdom from his heart, wrote the doctrine of wisdom and discipline in this book.
Blessed is he who lives by these good things. Whoever places these things in his heart will be ever wise.
For if he does these things, he will prevail in all things. For the light of God is upon his footsteps.