Awake, awake, Put on thy strength, O Zion,—Put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem—thou holy city, For there shall not again come into thee any more the uncircumcised and unclean.
Shake thyself from the dust arise—sit down O Jerusalem,—Loose thyself from the bonds of thy neck, O captive! daughter of Zion!
For, thus, saith Yahweh, For nought, ye sold yourselves,—And not with silver, shall ye be redeemed,
For, thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh, To Egypt, went down my people at first to sojourn there,—But, Assyria, without cause, hath oppressed him.
Now, therefore, what do I here? Demandeth Yahweh. That my people have been taken away for nought? They who rule them, do howl, Declareth Yahweh, And, continually—all the day, is my Name brought into contempt.
Therefore, shall my people acknowledge my Name: Therefore, in that day, shall they acknowledge that, I, am the same, even I who am speaking,—Here, I am,
How beautiful, upon the mountains are the feet—Of him That bringeth good tidings, That publisheth peace, That bringeth good tidings of blessing, That publisheth salvation,—That saith unto Zion, Thy God, hath become king.
The voice of thy watchmen! They have uplifted a voice Together, do they renew the shout of triumph,—For eye to eye, shall they see, When Yahweh returneth to Zion.
Break forth, shout in triumph together, ye waste places of Jerusalem,—For Yahweh Hath comforted his people, Hath redeemed Jerusalem:
Yahweh hath bared his holy arm, in the eyes of all the nations, So shall all the ends of the earth see the salvation of our God.
Away! away! come, forth from thence!—Nought unclean, may ye touch,—Come forth out of her midst, Purify yourselves, ye who are to carry the vessels of Yahweh;
For, not in haste, shall ye come forth, Nor, by flight, shall ye journey,—For, your van-guard, is Yahweh, And, your rear-guard, the God of Israel.
Lo! my Servant, prospereth,—He riseth, and is lifted up, and becometh very high:
The more that Many, were amazed at thee, So marred, beyond any man’s, was his appearance,—And his form, beyond the sons of men,
The more doth he startle Many nations, Before him, have kings closed their mouth,—For, that which had not been related to them, have they seen, And that which they had not heard, haw they diligently considered.