And you, son of man, prophesy to Israel's mountains and say, O heights of Israel, hear the word of Jehovah.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Because the enemy has spoken against you, saying , Aha! Everlasting heights have become a possession to us.
So prophesy and say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Because, yea, because of the wasting and crushing of you from all around, that you might be a possession to the rest of the nations, and you were lifted on the tip of the tongue, and the whispering of the people.
Therefore, mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Jehovah: So says the Lord Jehovah to the mountains and to the hills, to the ravines and to the valleys, to the wastes of desolation, and to the forsaken cities which became a prey and a mocking to the rest of the nations all around.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Surely I have spoken in the fire of My jealousy against the rest of the nations, and against Edom, all those of her who have given My land to themselves for a possession with all joy of heart, with scorning of soul, in order to make it open land for a prey.
So prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and to the hills, to the ravines and to the valleys, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I have spoken in My jealousy and in My fury, because you have borne the shame of the nations.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: I have lifted up My hand, surely the nations that surround you, they shall bear their shame.
But you, O mountains of Israel, you shall put out your branches and your fruit, you shall bear for My people Israel. For they are drawing near to come.
For behold, I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you shall be tilled and sown.
And I will multiply men on you, all the house of Israel, all of it. and the cities shall be inhabited, and the wastes shall be built.
And I will multiply men on you, and beast, and they will grow and be fruitful. And I will make you dwell as you formerly were , and I will do better than at your beginnings. And you shall know that I am Jehovah.
Yea, I will cause men to walk on you, My people Israel; and they shall possess you, and you will be an inheritance to them and will not any more increase their bereavement.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Because they said to you, You are a devourer of men, and you have bereaved your nations.
So you shall no longer devour men, and you shall not make your nations fall any more, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And I will not let you bear the shame of the nations any longer, and you shall not bear the disgrace of the peoples any more, and you shall not cause your nations to fall any more, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt on their land, they even defiled it by their ways and by their doings. As the defilement of woman's impurity, their way was before Me
So I poured out My fury on them, because of the blood that they had poured out on the land, and for their idols by which they defiled it.
And I scattered them among the nations, and they were sown among the lands; I judged them by their way and by their doings.
And when they entered into the nations, there where they went, they even profaned My holy name, by saying to them, These are the people of Jehovah, and they are gone out of His land.
But I had pity for My holy name which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations, there where they went.
Therefore, say to the house of Israel, So says the Lord Jehovah: I do not do this for your sake, O house of Israel, but only for My holy name which you profaned among the nations, there where you went.
And I will sanctify My great name which was profaned among the nations, which you profaned among them. And the nations shall know that I am Jehovah, declares the Lord Jehovah, when I am sanctified in you in their eyes.
For I will take you from the nations and gather you out of all the lands and bring you into your land.
Then I will sprinkle clean waters on you, and you shall be clean. I will cleanse you from all your defilement and from all your idols.
And I will also give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give to you a heart of flesh.
And I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to walk in My statutes, and you shall keep My judgments and do them .
And you shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers. And you shall be a people to Me, and I will be God to you.
I will also save you from all your defilements, and I will call for grain and increase it, and I will not put a famine on you.
And I will multiply the fruit of the tree and the produce of the field, in order that you will not any more receive the disgrace of famine among the nations.
And you will remember your evil ways and your doings that were not good, and you will despise yourselves in your own eyes for your iniquities and for your abominations.
Let it be known to you that I am not doing this for your sake, states the Lord Jehovah. Be ashamed and confounded for your ways, O house of Israel.
So says the Lord Jehovah: In the day I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the wastes shall be built.
And the desolated land shall be cultivated, rather than being a ruin in the eyes of all passing by.
And they shall say, This land that was desolated has become like the garden of Eden. And the wasted and desolated and razed cities are fortified and inhabited.
And the nations left all around you shall know that I, Jehovah, built the razed places and planted that which was desolated. I, Jehovah have spoken it and will do it.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Yet for this I will be sought by the house of Israel, to work for them. I will increase them with men like a flock.
Like a holy flock, like the flock of Jerusalem in her appointed feasts, so the wasted cities shall be filled with flocks of men. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.