And it happened at the end of two years of days, Pharaoh was dreaming. And, lo, he was standing by the River.
And, behold! Seven cows were going up from the River, beautiful of appearance and fat of flesh; and they were eating in the reeds.
And, behold, seven other cows were going up after them from the River, evil of appearance and lean of flesh. And they were standing beside the cows on the lip of the River.
And the evil-appearing and leanfleshed cows were eating the seven cows of beautiful and fat appearance. And Pharaoh awoke.
And he slept and dreamed a second time. And, behold, seven ears of grain were coming up on one stalk, fat and good.
And, behold, seven ears of grain, being lean and blasted by the east wind , sprouting forth after them.
And the seven lean ears were swallowing the seven fat and full ears. And Pharaoh awakened; and, lo, it was a dream.
And it happened in the morning, his spirit was troubled. And he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all its wise men. And Pharaoh told them his dream, and there was no interpreter of them to Pharaoh.
And the chief of the cupbearers spoke with Pharaoh, saying, I mention my sin today.
Pharaoh was angry against his servants, and gave me into custody in the house of the chief of the executioners, me and the chief of the bakers.
And we dreamed a dream in one night, he and I; we each dreamed according to the interpretation of his dream.
And a Hebrew youth was with us, a slave to the chief of the executioners. And we told him, and he interpreted our dreams to us; he interpreted to each according to his dream.
And it happened, as he had interpreted to us, so it was; he returned me to my place, and he hanged him.
And Pharaoh sent and called Joseph; and they rushed him from the dungeon. And he shaved and changed his clothing and came in to Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is no one to interpret it; and I have heard about you, saying, you hear a dream to interpret it.
And Joseph replied to Pharaoh, saying, Not I! God will answer the welfare of Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, In my dream, lo, I was standing on the lip of the River.
And, behold, seven cows were going up from the River, fat of flesh and beautiful of form, and were feeding in the reeds.
And, behold, seven other cows were going up after them, poor and very evil of form, and lean of flesh; I have not seen any like them in all the land of Egypt for badness.
And the cows, the lean and the evil, ate the first seven fat cows.
And they went into their stomachs, and it could not be seen that they had gone into their stomachs; and their appearance was as evil as at the beginning. And I awakened.
And I looked in my dream. And, behold, seven ears of grain were coming up on one stalk, full and good.
And, behold, seven ears, withered, lean, blasted by the east wind , sprouting forth after them.
And the lean ears were swallowing the seven good ears. And I spoke to the magicians, but not one is making known the meaning to me.
And Joseph said to Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one. God has shown Pharaoh what He is about to do.
The seven good cows, they are seven years and the seven good ears, they are seven years; it is one dream.
And the seven thin and evil-appearing cows going up after them, they are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted by the east wind will be seven years of famine.
This is the word that I spoke to Pharaoh: what God is about to do, He has shown Pharaoh
Behold! Seven years of great plenty are coming in all the land of Egypt.
And seven years of famine will arise after them and all the plenty of the land of Egypt will be forgotten; and the famine will consume the land.
And the plenty in the land will not be remembered because of that famine afterwards; for it will be very severe
And as to the dream being repeated to Pharaoh twice, the thing is settled because it is from God, and God is hastening to do it.
And now let Pharaoh look for a man who is intelligent and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt.
Let Pharaoh act and let him appoint rulers over the land and take a fifth of the land of Egypt in the seven years of plenty.
And let then gather all the food of these coming good years. And let them heap up grain under Pharaoh's hand as food in the cities, ant let them keep it .
And let the food be for a store for the land, for the seven years of famine which will be in the land of Egypt and let not the land be cut off by famine
And the word was good in Pharaoh's eyes, and in the eyes of all his servants.
And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find any man like this, in whom is the Spirit of God?
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Since God has taught you all this, there is no one wise and intelligent like you.
You shall be over my house, and at your mouth all my people shall kiss the hand . Only in respect to the throne will I be greater than you.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Behold, I have set you over all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it on the hand of Joseph; and he clothed him with fine linen robes, and put a golden chain on his neck.
And he caused him to ride in a chariot which was the second to him. And they cried before him, Bow the knee! And he put him over all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without a word from you not a man shall lift his hand or his foot in all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh called Joseph by the name of Zaphnath-paaneah. And He gave him Asenath the daughter of Potipherah, priest of On, for a wife. And Joseph went out over the land of Egypt.
And Joseph was a son of thirty years as he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the face of Pharaoh and passed over in all the land of Egypt.
And the land produced by handfuls in the seven years of plenty
And he gathered all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and he put food in the cities. The food of the field of the city which was around it, he put in the middle of it.
And Joseph heaped up grain like the sand of the sea, exceedingly much, until he ceased to count it, because it was without number.
And two sons were born to Joseph before the year of the famine came in, whom Asenath the daughter of Potipherah, priest of On, bore to him.
And Joseph called the name of the first born Manasseh; for he said , God has made me forget all my toil, and all the house of my father.
And the name of the second he called Ephraim; for he said , God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.
And the seven years of plenty which were in the land of Egypt were ended.
And the seven years of famine began to come, according as Joseph had said. And the famine was in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
And all the land of Egypt hungered and the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said to all Egypt, Go to Joseph; what he says to you, do.
And the famine was on the face of all the land. And Joseph opened all which was in them, and sold to the Egyptians. And the famine was strong in the land of Egypt.
And all the earth came to Egypt to buy, to Joseph. For the famine was strong in all the earth.