Then began Solomon, to build the house of Yahweh, in Jerusalem, in Mount Moriah, where he had appeared unto David his father,—in the place which David had prepared, in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
And he began to build, in the second month, on the second, in the fourth year of his reign.
And, these, are the things wherein Solomon was grounded for the building of the house of God,—The length, by cubits, in the first measure, was sixty cubits, and, the breadth, twenty cubits.
And, the porch which was in front of the length, in front of the breadth of the house, was twenty cubits, and, the height thereof, was a hundred and twenty,—and he overlaid it, within, with pure gold.
And, the greater house, covered he with cypress wood, and overlaid it with fine gold,—and raised thereon palms, and wreathed garlands.
And he covered the house with precious stones, for beauty,—and, the gold, was gold of Parvaim.
And he covered the house, the beams, the entrance-hall, and the walls thereof and the doors thereof, with gold,—and he carved cherubim upon the walls.
And he made the most holy house, the length whereof, was, according to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and, the breadth thereof, twenty cubits,—and he covered it with fine gold, to [the number of] six hundred talents;
and, the weight of the nails, amounted to fifty shekels of gold,—and, the upper chambers, covered he with gold.
And he made, in the most holy house, two cherubim, of carved work,—and covered them with gold.
And, as for the wings of the cherubim, the length of them, was twenty cubits,—the one wing, by the cubit was five, reaching to the wall of the house, and, the other wing, five cubits, reaching to the wing of the other cherub;
and, the wing of the other cherub, was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house,—and, the other wing, was five cubits, cleaving to the wing of the other cherub:
the wings of these cherubim, outspread, were twenty cubits,—and, they themselves, were standing upon their feet, and, their faces, were inward.
And he made a vail, of blue and purple, and crimson and byssus cloth,—and raised thereon cherubim.
And he made, for the front of the house, two pillars, thirty five cubits in length,—and, the capital which was upon the top of each, was five cubits.
And he made wreathen chains in the shrine, and put them upon the top of the pillars,—and he made one hundred pomegranates, and put them in the chains,
And he reared up the pillars in front of the temple, one, on the right, and, one, on the left,—and called the name of that on the right hand, Jachin, and the name of that on the left, Boaz.