Then being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom also we have had access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we glory on the hope of the glory of God.
And not only so, but we glory also in afflictions, knowing that affliction works out patience,
and patience works out proven character; and proven character, hope.
And the hope does not put us to shame, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit given to us;
for we yet being without strength, in due time Christ died for ungodly ones.
For with difficulty one will die for a just one, (for perhaps one even dares to die for the sake of the good one),
but God commends His love to us in this , that we being yet sinners, Christ died for us.
Much more then, being justified now by His blood, we shall be saved from wrath through Him.
For if while being enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life;
and not only so , but also glorying in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we now received the reconciliation.
Because of this, even as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, so also death passed to all men, inasmuch as all sinned.
For sin was in the world until Law, but sin is not charged where there is no law;
but death reigned from Adam until Moses, even on those who had not sinned in the likeness of Adam's transgression, who is a type of the coming One .
But the free gift shall not be also like the offense. For if by the offense of the one the many died, much more the grace of God, and the gift in grace, which is of the one Man, Jesus Christ, did abound to the many.
And the gift shall not be as by one having sinned; for indeed the judgment was of one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offenses to justification.
For if by the offense of the one death reigned through the one, much more those who are receiving the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness shall rule in life by the One, Jesus Christ.
So then, as through one offense it was toward all men to condemnation, so also by one accomplished righteousness toward all men to justification of life.
For as through the one man's disobedience the many were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of the One the many shall be constituted righteous.
But Law came in beside, that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace much more abounded,
that as sin ruled in death, so also grace might rule through righteousness to everlasting life, through Jesus Christ our Lord.