Truly, truly, I say to you, the one not entering through the door into the sheepfold, but going up by another way, that one is a thief and a robber.
But the one entering through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
The doorkeeper opens to him, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out.
And when he puts forth his own sheep, he goes in front of them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice.
But they never follow a stranger, but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of the strangers.
Jesus spoke this allegory to them, but they did not know what it was which He spoke to them.
Then Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you that I am the door of the sheep.
All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
I am the door. If anyone enters through Me, he will be saved, and will go in, and will go out, and will find pasture.
The thief does not come except that he may steal, and kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life and may have it abundantly.
I am the Good Shepherd! The Good Shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.
But the hireling, not even being a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and forsakes the sheep and flees. And the wolf seizes them, and scatters the sheep.
But the hireling flees because he is a hireling, and there is not a care to him concerning the sheep.
I am the Good Shepherd, and I know those that are Mine, and I am known by the ones that are Mine.
Even as the Father knows Me, I also know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep.
And I have other sheep which are not of this fold. I must also lead those, and they will hear My voice; and there will be one flock, one Shepherd.
For this reason My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life, that I may take it again.
No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down from Myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it again. I received this commandment from My Father.
Then a division occurred again among the Jews, because of these words.
And many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why do you hear him?
Others said, These are not words of one having been possessed by a demon. A demon is not able to open the eyes of blind ones.
And the Feast of Dedication took place in Jerusalem, and it was winter.
And Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon's Porch.
Then the Jews encircled Him, and said to Him, How long do you lift up our soul? If you are the Christ, tell us publicly.
Jesus answered them, I told you, and you did not believe. The works which I do in the name of My Father, these bear witness about Me.
But you do not believe for you are not of My sheep, as I said to you.
My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me.
And I give eternal life to them, and they shall never perish to the age, and not anyone shall pluck them out of My hand.
My Father who has given them to Me is greater than all, and no one is able to pluck out of My Father's hand.
I and the Father are one!
Then again the Jews took up stones, that they might stone Him.
Jesus answered them, I showed you many good works from My Father. For which work of them do you stone Me?
The Jews answered Him, saying, We do not stone you concerning a good work, but concerning blasphemy; and because you, being a man, make yourself God.
Jesus answered them, Has it not been written in your Law, "I said, you are gods"? Psa. 82:6
If He called those gods with whom the Word of God was, and the Scripture cannot be broken,
do you say of Him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, You blaspheme, because I said, I am Son of God?
If I do not do the works of My Father, do not believe Me.
But if I do, even if you do not believe Me, believe the works, that you may perceive and may believe that the Father is in Me, and I in Him.
Then again they sought to seize Him. And He went forth out of their hand.
And He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John was at first baptizing and remained there.
And many came to Him and said, John indeed did no miracle, but all things that John said concerning this One were true.
And many believed into Him there.