And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face against the sons of Ammon and prophesy against them.
And say to the sons of Ammon, Hear the word of the Lord Jehovah. So says the Lord Jehovah: Because you have said, Aha! against My sanctuary when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel when it was ruined, and against the house of Judah when they went into exile;
therefore, behold, I will give you to the sons of the east for a possession. And they shall set their camp sites among you, and put among you their dwellings. They shall eat your fruit, and they shall drink your milk.
And I will give Rabbah for a pasture for camels, and the sons of Ammon for a resting place for flocks. And you shall know that I am Jehovah.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: Because you have clapped the hand, and you stamped the foot, and rejoiced with all your spite in your soul against the land of Israel;
so, behold, I will stretch out My hand on you and will give you as a prize to the nations. And I will cut you off from the peoples, and I will make you perish from the lands; I will destroy you, and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Because Moab and Seir say, Behold, the house of Judah is like all the nations.
So behold! I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities, from his borders, the glory of the land: Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriath-aim.
To the sons of the east, with the sons of Ammon, even I will give it for a possession so that the sons of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations.
And I will execute judgments on Moab. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Because Edom has acted by taking vengeance against the house of Judah, and they are very guilty and are avenged on them,
so the Lord Jehovah says this: I will stretch My hand on Edom and will cut off from it man and beast, and I will lay it waste. From Teman even to Dedan they shall fall by the sword.
And I will put My vengeance on Edom by the hand of My people Israel. And they shall do in Edom as is My anger and as is My fury. And they shall know My vengeance, declares the Lord Jehovah.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Because the Philistines have acted in vengeance and have taken vengeance with spite in their soul, to destroy with perpetual enmity.
So the Lord Jehovah says this, Behold, I will stretch My hand on the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites and will destroy the rest of the coast of the sea.
And I will execute on them great vengeance with rebukes of fury. And when I put My vengeance on them, they will know that I am Jehovah.