O LORD! thou hast searched me and known me!
Thou knowest my sitting-down and my rising-up; Thou understandest my thoughts from afar!
Thou seest my path and my lying-down, And art acquainted with all my ways!
For before the word is upon my tongue, Behold, O LORD! thou knowest it altogether!
Thou besettest me behind and before, And layest thine hand upon me!
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is high, I cannot attain to it!
Whither shall I go from thy spirit, And whither shall I flee from thy presence?
If I ascend into heaven, thou art there! If I make my bed in the underworld, behold, thou art there!
If I take the wings of the morning, And dwell in the remotest parts of the sea,
Even there shall thy hand lead me, And thy right hand shall hold me!
If I say, "Surely the darkness shall cover me;" Even the night shall be light about me.
Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, But the night shineth as the day; The darkness and the light are both alike to thee!
For thou didst form my reins; Thou didst weave me in my mother’s womb.
I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Marvellous are thy works, And this my soul knoweth full well!
My frame was not hidden from thee, When I was made in secret. When I was curiously wrought in the lower parts of the earth.
Thine eyes did see my substance, while yet unformed, And in thy book was every thing written; My days were appointed before one of them existed.
How precious to me are thy thoughts, O God! How great is the sum of them!
If I should count them, they would outnumber the sand: When I awake, I am still with thee!
O that thou wouldst slay the wicked, O God! Ye men of blood, depart from me!
For they speak against thee wickedly; Thine enemies utter thy name for falsehood.
Do I not hate them that hate thee, O LORD? Do I not abhor them that rise up against thee?
Yea, I hate them with perfect hatred; I count them mine enemies.
Search me, O God! and know my heart; Try me, and know my thoughts;
And see if the way of trouble be within me, And lead me in the way everlasting!