Bvt of the times and seasons, brethren, yee haue no neede that I write vnto you.
For ye your selues knowe perfectly, that the day of the Lord shall come, euen as a thiefe in the night.
For when they shall say, Peace, and safetie, then shall come vpon them sudden destruction, as the trauaile vpon a woman with childe, and they shall not escape,
But ye, brethren, are not in darkenes, that that day shall come on you, as it were a thiefe.
Yee are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, neither of darkenesse.
Therefore let vs not sleepe as do other, but let vs watch and be sober.
For they that sleepe, sleepe in the night, and they that be drunken, are drunken in the night.
But let vs which are of the day, be sober, putting on the brest plate of faith and loue, and of the hope of saluation for an helmet.
For God hath not appointed vs vnto wrath, but to obtaine saluation by the meanes of our Lord Iesus Christ,
Which died for vs, that whether we wake or sleepe, we should liue together with him.
Wherefore exhort one another, and edifie one another, euen as ye doe.
Nowe we beseeche you, brethren, that ye acknowledge them, which labour among you, and are ouer you in the Lord, and admonish you,
That yee haue them in singular loue for their workes sake. Bee at peace among your selues.
We desire you, brethren, admonish them that are out of order: comfort ye feeble minded: beare with the weake: be pacient toward all men.
See that none recompense euil for euil vnto any man: but euer follow that which is good, both toward your selues, and toward all men.
Reioyce euermore.
Pray continually.
In all thinges giue thankes: for this is the will of God in Christ Iesus toward you.
Quench not the Spirit.
Despise not prophecying.
Try all things, and keepe that which is good.
Absteine from all appearance of euill.
Nowe the very God of peace sanctifie you throughout: and I pray God that your whole spirite and soule and body, may be kept blamelesse vnto the comming of our Lord Iesus Christ.
Faithfull is hee which calleth you, which will also doe it.
Brethren, pray for vs.
Greete all the brethren with an holy kisse.
I charge you in the Lord, that this Epistle be read vnto all the brethren the Saintes.
The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you, Amen.  The first Epistle vnto the Thessalonians written from Athens.