NOW concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant.
Ye know that ye were Gentiles, drawn away after the idols that are dumb, even as ye have been led.
Wherefore I advertise you, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God, call Jesus anathema: and no man can say, Lord Jesus, but by the Holy Ghost.
But there are diversities of gifts, though the same Spirit.
And there are diversities of services, but the same Lord.
And there are diversities of mighty operations, but it is the same God who worketh all in all.
Now to every one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for usefulness.
For to one man by the Spirit is given wise discourse; but to another speech communicative of knowledge by the same Spirit;
to another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing diseases by the same Spirit;
to another miraculous powers; to another prophecy; to another discernments of spirits; to another different kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues:
but all these things worketh that one and the same Spirit, distributing peculiar gifts to every one even as he wills.
For as the body is one, and hath many members, but all the members of that one body, though many, are one body: so also is Christ.
For by one Spirit we all have been baptised into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free men; and we have all been made to drink into one Spirit.
For the body is not one member, but many.
If the foot should say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it, on this account, not of the body?
And if the ear should say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it not therefore of the body?
If the whole body were eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
But now hath God placed the members, every one of them in the body, as he hath chosen.
But if the whole were one member, where were the body?
But now the members indeed are many, but the body one.
Nor can the eye say to the hand, I have no need of thee: or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
Yea, much more the members of the body, which appear to be more feeble, are necessary:
and those parts which we esteem as the more dishonourable of the body, on them we bestow more abundant honour, and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness.
For our comely parts have no need: but God hath tempered together the body, giving more abundant honour to that part which lacked:
that there might be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.
And if one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; and if one member be exalted, all the members rejoice with it.
Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.
And these also hath God placed in the church, first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, next miracles, then gifts of healings, helpers, directors, different kinds of tongues.
Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles?
have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?
But zealously seek the gifts that are the best: and yet I shew unto you a more transcendently excellent way.