And I saw in the right hand of him that sits on the throne, a book written within and without, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a strong angel crying with a great voice: Who is worthy to open the book, and to break its seals?
And no one in heaven, or on earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book, or to look upon it.
And I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the book, or to look upon it.
And one of the elders said to me: Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has the power to open the book and its seven seals.
And I saw, in the midst of the throne, and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing, like one that had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God that are sent into all the earth.
And he came, and took the book out of the right hand of him that sits on the throne.
And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures, and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, having, each of them, harps, and golden cups full of incense, which is the prayers of the saints.
And they sung a new song, saying:   Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open its seals: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation:
and hast made us to our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth.
And I saw, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and the number of them was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands.
And they said, with a loud voice: Worthy is the Lamb that was slain, to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
And every creature that is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are on the sea, even all that are in them, I heard saying: To him that sits on the throne, and to the Lamb, be blessing and honor and glory and strength from age to age.
And the four living creatures said, Amen; and the elders fell down, and worshiped.