And He said to the disciples, It is impossible but that offenses will come. But woe to him through whom they come!
It were better for him that a millstone were hanged around his neck and he were cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones.
Take heed to yourselves. If your brother trespasses against you, rebuke him. And if he repents, forgive him.
And if he trespasses against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turns again to you, saying, I repent, you shall forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord, Give us more faith.
And the Lord said, If you had faith as a grain of mustard seed, you might say to this sycamine tree, Be rooted up and be planted in the sea! And it would obey you.
But which of you who has a servant plowing or feeding will say to him immediately after he has come from the field, Come, recline?
Will he not say to him, Prepare something so that I may eat, and gird yourself and serve me until I eat and drink. And afterward you shall eat and drink.
Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I think not.
So likewise you, when you shall have done all the things commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants, for we have done what we ought to do.
And as He went to Jerusalem, it happened that he went through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
And as He entered into a certain village, ten leprous men met Him, who stood afar off.
And they lifted voice and said, Jesus, Master, pity us!
And seeing them, He said to them, Go show yourselves to the priests. And it happened, as they went, that they were cleansed.
And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and glorified God with a loud voice.
And he fell down on his face at His feet, thanking Him. And he was a Samaritan.
And answering, Jesus said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
Were none found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner?
And He said to him, Rise and go, your faith has cured you.
And being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, He answered and said, The kingdom of God does not come with observation.
Nor shall they say, Lo here! or, behold, there! For behold, the kingdom of God is in your midst.
And He said to the disciples, The days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and you shall not see it.
And they shall say to you, Lo, here! or, behold, there! Do not go away, nor follow.
For as the lightning which lights up, flashing from the one part under heaven, and shines to the other part under heaven, so also shall the Son of man be in His day.
But first He must suffer many things and be rejected of this generation.
And as it was in the days of Noah, so it also shall be in the days of the Son of man.
They ate, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark; and the flood came and destroyed them all.
So also as it was in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;
but the day Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from the heaven and destroyed them all.
Even so it shall be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.
In that day he who shall be on the housetop, and his goods in the house, let him not come down to take them away. And likewise, he who is in the field, let him not return to the things behind.
Remember Lot's wife.
Whoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it, and whoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.
I tell you, in that night there shall be two in one bed, the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
Two shall be grinding together, one will be taken, and the other left.
Two shall be in the field, one will be taken, and the other left.
And they answered and said to Him, Where, Lord? And He said to them, Wherever the body is, there the eagles will be gathered together.