To the Chief Musician. For stringed instruments. A contemplation. A Psalm of David. Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not Yourself from my cry.
Attend to me, and hear me; I wander and I moan in my complaint,
from the voice of the enemy, from the oppression of the wicked, for they shake trouble over me, and in wrath they hate me.
My heart is pained within me; and the terrors of death have fallen on me.
Fear and trembling have come on me, and horror has covered me.
And I said, Who will give to me wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest.
Lo, I would wander far off; I would lodge in the desert. Selah.
I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.
Swallow up, O LORD, and divide their tongues; for I have seen violence and fighting in the city.
They go around her on her walls by day and night; and evil and sorrow are in her midst.
Covetings are in her midst; oppression and guile will not depart from her streets.
For it is not an enemy who reviled me; then I could have borne it; it is not one who hates me who magnified himself against me; or I would hide myself from him;
but it is you, a man my rank, my guide and my friend.
We took sweet counsel together, and walked to the house of God in company.
Let desolation take hold on them, and let them go down alive into hell; for evils are among them in their dwellings.
I, even I, will call to God, and the LORD will save me.
Evening and morning, and at noon, I will pray and cry aloud; and He shall hear my voice.
He has delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me; for there were many with me.
God shall hear and answer them, even He who is enthroned of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they do not fear God.
He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; he has broken his covenant.
The butterings of his mouth were forked, but war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords.
Cast your burden on the LORD, and He will keep you; He will never allow the righteous to waver.
But You, O God, will bring them down into the pit of ruin; bloody and deceitful men shall not live half their days; but I will trust in You.