But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
And at dawn, He again arrived into the temple; and all the people came to Him. And sitting down, He taught them.
And the scribes and the Pharisees brought to Him a woman having been taken in adultery. And standing her in the middle,
they said to Him, Teacher, this woman was taken in the very act, committing adultery.
And in the Law, Moses commanded that such should be stoned. You, then, what do you say?
But they said this, tempting Him, that they may have reason to accuse Him. But bending down, Jesus wrote with the finger in the earth, not appearing to hear .
But as they continued questioning Him, bending back up, He said to them, The one among you without sin, let him cast the first stone at her.
And bending down again, He wrote in the earth.
But hearing, and being convicted by the conscience, they went out one by one, beginning from the older ones, until the last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the middle.
And Jesus bending back up, and having seen no one but the woman, He said to her, Woman, where are those who accused you? Did not one give judgment against you?
And she said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said to her, Neither do I give judgment. Go, and sin no more.
Then Jesus again spoke to them, saying, I am the Light of the world. The one following Me will in no way walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life.
Then the Pharisees said to Him, You witnessed concerning yourself; your witness is not true.
Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I witness concerning Myself, My witness is true; for I know from where I came, and where I go. But you do not know from where I came, and where I go.
You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one.
But even if I judge, My judgment is true, because I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent Me.
And in your Law it has been written that the witness of two men is true. Deut. 19:15
I am the one witnessing concerning Myself, and He who sent Me, the Father, witnesses concerning Me.
Then they said to Him, Where is your father? Jesus answered, You neither know Me, nor My Father. If you had known Me, then you also would have known My Father.
Jesus spoke these words in the treasury, teaching in the temple; and no one seized Him, for His hour had not yet come.
Then Jesus said to them again, I go, and you will seek Me. And you will die in your sin. Where I go, you are not able to come.
Then the Jews said, Will he kill himself, because he says, Where I go, you are not able to come?
And He said to them, You are from below; I am from above. You are from this world; I am not from this world.
Therefore, I said to you that you will die in your sins. For if you do not believe that I AM, you will die in your sins.
Then they said to Him, Who are you? And Jesus said to them, Altogether what I also say to you.
I have many things to say and to judge concerning you; but the One sending Me is true, and what I heard from Him, these things I say to the world.
They did not know that He spoke to them of the Father.
Then Jesus said to them, When you lift up the Son of man, then you will know that I AM; and from Myself I do nothing; but as My Father taught Me, these things I speak.
And the One who sent Me is with Me. The Father did not leave Me alone, for I do the things pleasing to Him always.
As He spoke these things, many believed into Him.
Then Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in Him, If you continue in My Word, you are truly My disciples.
And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
They answered Him, We are Abraham's seed, and we have been in slavery to no one, never! How do you say, You will become free?
Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone practicing sin is a slave of sin.
But the slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever.
Therefore, if the Son sets you free, you are free indeed.
I know that you are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill Me, because My Word has no place in you.
I speak what I have seen with My Father. And you therefore do what you have seen with your father.
They answered and said to Him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were children of Abraham, you would do the works of Abraham.
But now you seek to kill Me, a man who has spoken the truth to you, which I heard alongside of God. Abraham did not do this.
You do the works of your father. They said to Him, We were not born of fornication; we have one father, God.
Then Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love Me, for I went forth and have come from God. For I have not come from Myself, but that One sent Me.
Why do you not know My speech? It is because you are not able to hear My Word.
You are of the Devil as father, and the lusts of your father you desire to do. That one was a murderer from the beginning, and he has not stood in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own, because he is a liar, and the father of it.
And because I speak the truth, you do not believe Me.
Who of you reproves Me concerning sin? But if I speak truth, why do you not believe Me?
The one who is of God hears the words of God; for this reason you do not hear, because you are not of God.
Then the Jews answered and said to Him, Do we not say well that you are a Samaritan and have a demon?
Jesus answered, I do not have a demon; but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me.
But I do not seek My glory; there is One who seeks and judges.
Truly, truly, I say to you, If anyone keeps My Word, he will never ever see death.
Then the Jews said to Him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets, and you say, If anyone keeps My Word, he will never ever taste of death.
Are you greater than our father Abraham who died? And the prophets died! Whom do you make yourself?
Jesus answered, If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing; it is My Father who glorifies Me, whom you say is your God.
And you have not known Him; but I know Him, And if I say that I do not know Him, I shall be like you, a liar. But I know Him, and I keep His Word.
Your father Abraham leaped for joy that he should see My day, and he saw, and rejoiced.
Then the Jews said to Him, You do not yet have fifty years, and have you seen Abraham?
Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham came into being, I AM.
Because of this, they took up stones that they might throw them on Him. But Jesus was hidden, and went forth out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by.