And it happened after this, David struck the Philistines and humbled them. And he took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he struck Moab. And the people of Moab became David's servants and brought gifts.
And David struck Hadarezer king of Zobah to Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates.
And David took from him a thousand chariots and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen. David also hamstrung all the chariot horses, but kept from them a hundred chariots.
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians.
Then David placed troops in Syria, in Damascus. And the Syrians became David's servants, bringing gifts. And the LORD preserved David wherever he went.
And David took the shields of gold which were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
And David brought very much bronze from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer, with which Solomon made the bronze sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of bronze.
And Tou king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadarezer king of Zobah,
he sent Hadoram his son to king David to ask of his welfare, and to praise him because he had fought against Hadarezer and had beaten him. For Hadarezer had war with Tou. And he sent all kinds of vessels of gold and silver and bronze.
And king David dedicated them to the LORD, with the silver and the gold which he brought from all the nations, from Edom, and from Moab, and from the sons of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.
And Abishai the son of Zeruiah killed eighteen thousand of the men of Edom in the Valley of Salt.
And he put guards in Edom. And all the men of Edom became David's servants. And the LORD kept David safe wherever he went.
And David reigned over all Israel, and did judgment and justice among all his people.
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army. And Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder.
And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were the priests. And Shavsha was scribe.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites. And the sons of David were first ones at the hand of the king.