Paul, an apostle, (not of men, neither by man, but by Yahushua the Messiah, and יהוה the Father, who raised him from the dead;)
And all the brethren which are with me, unto the assemblies of Galatia:
Favour be to you and peace from יהוה the Father, and from our Master Yahushua the Messiah,
Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of יהוה our Father:
To whom be glory for ever and ever. amein.
I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the favour of the Messiah unto another evangel:
Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the glad tidings of the Messiah.
But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other evangel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed.
As we said before, so say I now again, If any man preach any other evangel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed.
For do I now persuade men, or יהוה? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of the Messiah.
But I certify you, brethren, that the glad tidings which was preached of me is not after man.
For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Yahushua the Messiah.
For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the assembly of יהוה, and wasted it:
And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased יהוה, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his favour,
To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood:
Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days.
But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Master's brother.
Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before יהוה, I lie not.
Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;
And was unknown by face unto the assemblies of Judaea which were in the Messiah:
But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed.
And they glorified יהוה in me.