And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel,
and he said to Aaron, Take thee a calf of the herd for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, without blemish, and offer them before Jehovah.
And thou shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Take ye a he-goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt offering,
and an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah, and a meal offering mingled with oil. For today Jehovah appears to you.
And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting, and all the congregation drew near and stood before Jehovah.
And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah commanded that ye should do, and the glory of Jehovah shall appear to you.
And Moses said to Aaron, Draw near to the altar, and offer thy sin offering, and thy burnt offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people. And offer the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them, as Jehovah commanded.
So Aaron drew near to the altar, and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
And the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar,
but he burnt the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul from the liver of the sin offering, upon the altar, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he burnt the flesh and the skin with fire outside the camp.
And he killed the burnt offering. And Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about.
And they delivered the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head, and he burnt them upon the altar.
And he washed the innards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt offering on the altar.
And he presented the people's oblation. And took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people, and killed it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
And he presented the burnt offering, and offered it according to the ordinance.
And he presented the meal offering, and filled his hand from it, and burnt it upon the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning.
He also killed the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings, which was for the people. And Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,
and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the innards, and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver.
And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar.
And the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before Jehovah, as Moses commanded.
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them. And he came down from offering the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings.
And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people. And the glory of Jehovah appeared to all the people.
And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and consumed the burnt offering and the fat upon the altar. And when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.