And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Behold, I, I have called by name Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
And I have filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all workmanship,
to devise designs; to work in gold, and in silver, and in bronze,
and in cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all workmanship.
And behold, I have given to him Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. And I have put wisdom in the hearts of all the wise-hearted, so that they may make all that I have commanded you:
the tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark of the testimony, and the mercy-seat that is upon it, and all the vessels of the tabernacle,
and the table and its vessels, and the pure lampstand with all its vessels, and the altar of incense,
and the altar of burnt offering with all its vessels, and the laver and its base,
and the woven garments, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office,
and the anointing oil, and sweet incense for the holy place. According to all that I have commanded you, they shall do.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Speak also to the sons of Israel, saying, Truly you shall keep My sabbaths. For it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, to know that I am the LORD who sanctifies you.
You shall keep the Sabbath therefore, for it is holy to you. Everyone that defiles it shall surely be put to death. For whoever does any work in it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
Six days may work be done, but on the seventh is the sabbath of rest, holy to the LORD. Whoever does any work in the Sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death.
Therefore the sons of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant.
It is a sign between Me and the sons of Israel forever. For in six days the LORD made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day He rested, and was refreshed.
And He gave to Moses, when He had made an end of speaking with him upon Mount Sinai, two tablets of the testimony, tablets of stone, written by the finger of God.