And it happened after the plague, the LORD spoke to Moses and to Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saying,
Take the sum of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, throughout their fathers' house, all that are able to go to war in Israel.
And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab beside Jordan at Jericho, saying,
Count the people from twenty years old and upward, as the LORD commanded Moses and the sons of Israel, who came out of the land of Egypt.
Reuben, the first-born of Israel, the sons of Reuben, of Hanoch who came of the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu the family of the Palluites;
of Hezron the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites;
these are the families of the Reubenites. And their numbered ones were forty-three thousand, seven hundred and thirty.
And the sons of Pallu were Eliab.
And the sons of Eliab, Nemuel, and Dathan and Abiram. This is that Dathan and Abiram who were famous in the congregation, who fought against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they fought against the LORD.
And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died, when the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men. And they became a sign.
However the sons of Korah did not die.
The sons of Simeon according to their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites;
of Zerah, the family of the Zarchites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites--
these are the families of the Simeonites, twenty-two thousand, two hundred.
The sons of Gad according to their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites;
of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites;
of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites;
these are the families of the sons of Gad by their numbered ones, forty thousand and five hundred.
The sons of Judah: Er and Onan. And Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
And the sons of Judah according to their families: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Pharez, the family of the Pharzites; of Zerah, the family of the Zerahite.
And the sons of Pharez: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites;
these are the families of Judah by their numbered ones, seventy-six thousand and five hundred.
The sons of Issachar, according to their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Pua, the family of the Punites;
of Jashub the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites--
these are the families of Issachar by their numbered ones, sixty-four thousand and three hundred.
The sons of Zebulun according to their families: of Sered, the family of the Sardites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites--
these are the families of the Zebulunites by their numbered ones, sixty thousand, five hundred.
The sons of Joseph according to their families: Manasseh and Ephraim.
The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites. And Machir fathered Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites;
these are the sons of Gilead: of Jeezer, the family of the Jeezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites.
And of Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and of Shechem, the family of the Shechemites;
and of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters. And the names of the daughters of Zelophehad: Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah--
these are the families of Manasseh, by their numbered ones, fifty-two thousand, seven hundred.
These are the sons of Ephraim according to their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Bachrites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites;
these are the families of the sons of Ephraim by their numbered ones, thirty-two thousand, five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph according to their families.
The sons of Benjamin according to their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites;
of Shupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites;
And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman. Of Ard, the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites;
these are the sons of Benjamin according to their families, and their numbered ones, forty-five thousand, six hundred.
These are the sons of Dan according to their families: of Shuham, the families of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan according to their families.
All the families of the Shuhamites, by their numbered ones, sixty-four thousand, four hundred.
Of the sons of Asher according to their families: of Jimna, the family of the Jimnites; of Jesui, the family of the Jesuites; of Beriah, the family of the Berites.
Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.
And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
These are the families of the sons of Asher by their numbered ones, fifty-three thousand, four hundred.
The sons of Naphtali according to their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites;
of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.
These are the families of Naphtali according to their families, by their numbered ones, forty-five thousand, four hundred.
These were the numbered ones of the sons of Israel, six hundred one thousand, seven hundred and thirty.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
To these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.
To many you shall give the more inheritance, and to few you shall give the less inheritance; each by the mouth of his numbered ones shall be given his inheritance.
But the land shall be divided by lot. According to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
According to the lot shall the possession of it be divided between many and few.
And these are the numbered ones of the Levites according to their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites.
These are the families of the Levites: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korathites. And Korah fathered Amram.
And the name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, whom one bore to Levi in Egypt. And she bore to Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister.
And to Aaron was born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
And Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire before the LORD.
And their numbered ones, twenty-three thousand, all males from a month old and upward. For they were not numbered among the sons of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the sons of Israel.
These are those numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the plains of Moab beside Jordan at Jericho.
But among these there was not a man of them whom Moses and Aaron the priest numbered, when they numbered the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
For the LORD had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. And there was not a man left of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.