Now Sarai Abram's wife bore him no children; and she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name [was] Hagar.
And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD has restrained me from bearing; I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.
And Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maid the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife.
And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived; and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
Then Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong [be] upon thee; I have given my maid into thy bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes; the LORD judge between me and thee.
But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid [is] in thy hand; do to her as it pleases thee. Then Sarai afflicted her, and [she] fled from her face.
And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, where didst thou come from and where wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.
And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress, and humble thyself under her hands.
And the angel of the LORD [also] said unto her, I will multiply thy seed so exceedingly that it shall not be numbered for the multitude.
And the angel of the LORD [yet] said unto her, Behold, thou [art] with child and shalt bear a son and shalt call his name Ishmael, because the LORD has heard thy affliction.
And he will be a wild man; his hand [will] be against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren.
And she called the name of the LORD that spoke unto her, Thou God that is seen: for she said, Have I not also here seen the back of him that sees me?
Therefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold, [it is] between Kadesh and Bered.
And Hagar bore Abram a son; and Abram called his son's name, which Hagar bore, Ishmael.
And Abram [was] eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.: