And when it was determined for us to sail for Italy, they delivered both Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of the band of Augustus.
And having gotten on a ship of Adramyttium that was going to sail to the places along Asia, we launched, Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
And on another day we put in at Sidon. And Julius, who treated Paul kindly, allowed him to undergo care, after going to his friends.
And having launched from there, we sailed under lee of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.
And having sailed across the depths along Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, of Lycia.
And there, the centurion having found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy, he put us in it.
And sailing slowly during considerable days, and with difficulty having come along the Cnidus, the wind not allowing us further, we sailed under lee of Crete, along Salmone.
And sailing by it with difficulty, we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near to which was Lasea City.
And considerable time having past, and the voyage now being dangerous, also because the Fast was now past, Paul urged,
saying to them, Men, I perceive that the voyage is going to be with injury and much damage, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.
But the centurion was convinced more by the captain and the shipmaster than to those things spoken by Paul.
And since the haven was inconvenient to winter in, the majority gave counsel to launch from there also, if somehow they might be able, after arriving at Phoenix, to winter in a haven of Crete, looking toward southwest and northwest.
And when a south wind blew gently, having presumed to have obtained their purpose, after taking up anchor, they sailed very near by Crete.
But not long after, there threw against it a cyclonic wind called the Euroclydon.
And the ship having been caught, and not being able to face the wind, having given up, we were driven.
And having sailed under lee of a certain island called Clauda, we were able with difficulty, to develop control of the skiff.
And having taken that up, they used helps, undergirding the ship. And fearing lest they might fall off into the sandbank, having lowered the vessel, they were driven this way.
And since we were exceedingly storm-tossed, on the next day they jettisoned.
And the third day we cast out by hands the tackling of the ship.
And when neither sun nor stars appeared for more days, and no small storm laying on, all remaining hope for us to be saved was taken away.
And being long without food, then Paul, who stood in the midst of them, said, Ye truly ought, O men, to have complied with me, not to launch from Crete, and gain this damage and loss.
And now I exhort you to cheer up, for there will not be one loss of life from you, except of the ship.
For there stood by me this night an agent of the God whose I am, whom also I serve,
saying, Fear not, Paul. Thou must stand before Caesar, and lo, God has granted thee all those sailing with thee.
Therefore men, cheer up, for I believe God, that it will be so in that way it has been told to me.
But we must fall off upon a certain island.
And when it became the fourteenth night, as we were driven about in the Adriatic sea, toward midnight the sailors suspected some region to come near them.
And having tossed lead, they found twenty fathoms, and having gone a little farther, and having tossed lead again, they found fifteen fathoms.
And fearing lest somehow we might falloff on rough places, having cast off four anchors from the stern, they prayed for day to develop.
And since the sailors sought to flee out of the ship, and having lowered the skiff into the sea in pretense as going to stretch out anchors from the bow,
Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Unless these men remain in the ship, ye cannot be saved.
Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the skiff, and let it fall off.
And until day was going to develop, Paul urged them all to partake of food, saying, Today is the fourteenth day, waiting, ye continue without food, having taken nothing.
Therefore I encourage you to take of food, for this is for your safety. For not a hair will fall from the head of one of you.
And having said these things, and having taken bread, he expressed thanks to God in the presence of all. And having broke in pieces, he began to eat.
And they all, having become encouraged, also took food.
And all the souls in the ship were two hundred seventy-six.
And after being filled of food, they unloaded the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
And when it became day, they did not recognize the land, but they noticed a certain bay having a beach, onto which, they decided if possible, to drive the ship.
And having cast off the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time unfastening the bands of the rudders. And having hoisted up the foresail to the wind, they held firm for the shore.
And having chanced upon a place where two seas meet, they ran the ship aground. And of course, the bow having become stuck, it remained immovable, but the stern was coming apart by the force of the waves.
And a decision of the soldiers developed that they should kill the prisoners, lest any man, having swam away, might escape.
But the centurion, wanting to save Paul, prevented them from their purpose, and commanded those who were able to swim, having first jumped out, to go to the land,
and the remaining, some on boards, and some on any of the things from the ship. And so it came to pass for all to be saved to the land.