In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying:
Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt;
Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, thou great dragon, that liest in the midst of thy rivers, and sayest, "My river is my own, and I have made it for myself."
And I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to cleave to thy scales, and I will draw thee forth from the midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers which cleave to thy scales.
And I will cast thee into the desert, thee and all the fish of thy rivers; thou shalt fall upon the open fields; thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered; to the beasts of the field and the birds of heaven I have given thee for food.
And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah; because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.
When they took hold of thee by thy handle, thou didst break and pierce their whole shoulder; and when they leaned upon thee, thou didst go to pieces, and madest all their loins to shake.
Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring a sword upon thee, and cut off man and beast out of thee;
and the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, because he hath said, "The river is mine, and I have made it."
Therefore, behold, I am against thee, and against thy rivers; and I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from Migdol even to Syene, and to the borders of Ethiopia.
There shall not pass through it the foot of man, and the foot of beast shall not pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.
I will make the land of Egypt desolate amidst the lands that are desolate, and her cities, among the cities that are laid waste, shall be desolate forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.
Yet thus saith the Lord Jehovah: At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the nations whither they are scattered;
and I will bring back the captives of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their origin; and they shall be there a mean kingdom;
it shall be the meanest of all kingdoms; it shall no more exalt itself above the nations; for I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations.
And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing to my remembrance their iniquity in looking to them for help; and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
And it came to pass in the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, that the word of Jehovah came to me, saying:
Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre; every head was made bald, and every shoulder was peeled; yet neither he nor his army had wages from Tyre for the service which he served against it.
Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, and he shall take her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her plunder; and it shall be wages for his army.
For his wages for his service I will give him the land of Egypt; for they wrought for me, saith the Lord Jehovah.
In that day will I cause a horn to grow forth to the house of Israel, and I will give thee to open the mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.