Thou shall not take up a false report. Do not put thy hand with the wicked man to be an unrighteous witness.
Thou shall not follow a multitude to do evil, neither shall thou speak in a case to turn aside after a multitude to distort justice,
neither shall thou favor a poor man in his case.
If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, thou shall surely bring it back to him again.
If thou see the donkey of him who hates thee lying under his burden, thou shall refrain leaving him. Thou shall surely release it with him.
Thou shall not distort the justice due to thy poor in his case.
Keep thee far from a false matter. And do not kill an innocent and righteous man, for I will not justify a wicked man.
And thou shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds those who have sight, and perverts the words of the righteous.
And thou shall not oppress a sojourner, for ye know the heart of a sojourner, since ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
And six years thou shall sow thy land, and shall gather in the increase of it,
but the seventh year thou shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of thy people may eat, and what they leave the beast of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shall deal with thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.
Six days thou shall do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shall rest, that thine ox and thy donkey may have rest, and the son of thy handmaid, and the sojourner, may be refreshed.
And in all things that I have said to you take ye heed, and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth.
Three times thou shall keep a feast to me in the year.
Thou shall keep the feast of unleavened bread (Seven days thou shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, at the time appointed in the month Abib, for in it thou came out from Egypt, and none shall appear before me empty),
and the feast of harvest, the first-fruits of thy labors, which thou sow in the field, and the feast of ingathering at the end of the year, when thou gather in thy labors out of the field.
Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the lord Jehovah.
Thou shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread, neither shall the fat of my feast remain all night until the morning.
The first of the first-fruits of thy ground thou shall bring into the house of Jehovah thy God. Thou shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
Behold, I send an agent before thee, to keep thee by the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.
Take ye heed before him, and hearken to his voice, provoke him not. For he will not pardon your transgression, for my name is in him.
But if thou shall indeed hearken to his voice, and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to thine enemies, and an adversary to thine adversaries.
For my agent shall go before thee, and bring thee in to the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, and I will cut them off.
Thou shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works, but thou shall utterly overthrow them, and break their pillars in pieces.
And ye shall serve Jehovah your God, and he will bless thy bread, and thy water, and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee.
There shall none cast her young, nor be barren, in thy land; I will fulfill the number of thy days.
I will send my terror before thee, and will destroy all the people to whom thou shall come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs to thee.
And I will send the hornet before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.
I will not drive them out from before thee in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the beasts of the field multiply against thee.
Little by little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the land.
And I will set thy border from the Red Sea even to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the River. For I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and thou shall drive them out before thee.
Thou shall make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.
They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me, for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to thee.