Let all who are under the yoke as bond-servants count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed.
And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brethren; but rather do them service, because they who receive the benefit are faithful and beloved. These things teach and exhort.
If any one teacheth other doctrine, and assenteth not to sound words, the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness,
he is puffed up with pride, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, from which cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings,
incessant disputings of men corrupted in their minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that godliness is gain.
But godliness with contentment is great gain.
For we brought nothing into the world; and it is certain we can carry nothing out.
If we have, then, food and raiment, we will be therewith content.
But they who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition.
For the love of money is a root of all evils; which some coveting have strayed away from the faith, and have pierced themselves through with many pangs.
But do thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.
Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on everlasting life, to which thou wast called, and didst profess the good profession before many witnesses.
I charge thee before God, who giveth life to all things, and before Christ Jesus, who under Pontius Pilate testified the good profession,
that thou keep the commandment without spot, without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which in his own times he shall show, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords,
who only hath immortality, dwelling in light unapproachable, whom no man hath seen, or can see; to whom be honor and power everlasting. Amen.
Charge those who are rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor place their hope in uncertain riches, but in God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; that they do good,
that they be rich in good works, liberal in imparting, willing to communicate,
laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on the true life.
O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding the profane babblings, and oppositions of the falsely-called knowledge;
which some professing, have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with thee.