Originally, was, the Word, and, the Word, was, with God; and, the Word, was, God.
The same, was originally, with God.
All things, through him, came into existence, and, without him, came into existence, not even one thing: that which hath come into existence,
in him, was, life, and, the life, was, the light of men.—
And, the light, in the darkness, shineth; and, the darkness, thereof, laid not hold.
There arose a man, sent from God, whose name was, John:
The same, came, for a witness, That he might bear witness, concerning the light, that, all, might believe, through him.
He, was not the light,—but, that he might bear witness concerning the light,
It, was—The real light that enlighteneth every man—Coming into the world.
In the world, he was, and, the world, through him, came into existence, and, the world, knew him not.
Into his own possessions, he came, and, his own people, received him not home.
But, as many as did receive him, he gave, unto them, authority, children of God, to become,—unto them who were believing on his name:
Who—not of bloods, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but—of God, were born.
And, the Word, became, flesh, and pitched his tent among us, and we gazed upon his glory,—a glory, as an Only-begotten from his Father. Full of favour and truth.
(John beareth witness concerning him, and hath cried aloud, saying—the same, was he that said—He who, after me, was coming, before me, hath advanced; because, my Chief, was he.)
Because, out of his fulness, we all, received, even favour over against favour.
Because, the law, through Moses, was given, favour and truth, through Jesus Christ, came into existence.
No one, hath seen, God, at any time: An Only Begotten God, The One existing within the bosom of the Father, He, hath interpreted [him] .
And, this, is the witness of John, when the Jews sent forth unto him, out of Jerusalem, priests and Levites,—that they might question him—Who art, thou?
and he confessed, and did not deny,—and he confessed—I, am not, the Christ;
and they questioned him—What then? Art, thou, Elijah? and he saith—I am not; The prophet, art, thou? and he answered—No!
So they said unto him—Who, art thou? that, an answer, we may give, unto them who sent us,—What sayest thou, concerning thyself?
He said—I, am a Voice, of one crying aloud;—In the desert, make ye straight, the way of the Lord: according as said Isaiah the prophet.
And they had been sent forth from among the Pharisees;
and they questioned him, and said unto him—Why, then, dost thou immerse,—if, thou, art not, the Christ, nor Elijah, nor, the Prophet?
John answered them, saying—I, immerse, in water. In the midst of you, standeth one, whom, ye, know not;—
after me, coming:—Of whom, I, am not worthy that I should unloose the thong of the sandal.
These things, in Bethany, came to pass, beyond the Jordan, where John was, immersing.
On the morrow, he beholdeth Jesus, coming unto him, and saith—See! the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sin of the world.
This, is he, of whom, I, said—After me, cometh a man, who, before me, hath advanced, because, my Chief, was he.
And, I, knew him not, but, that he might be manifested unto Israel, therefore, came, I, in water, immersing.
And John bare witness, saying—I have gazed upon the Spirit, descending like a dove, out of heaven,—and it abode upon him.
And, I, knew him not,—but, he that sent me to immerse in water, he, unto me, said—Upon whomsoever thou shalt see the Spirit descending and abiding upon him, the same, is he that immerseth in Holy Spirit.
I, therefore, have seen, and borne witness—That, this, is, the, Son of God.
On the morrow, again, was John standing, and, from among his disciples, two;
and, looking at Jesus walking, he saith—See! the Lamb of God!
and the two disciples hearkened unto him speaking, and they followed Jesus.
But Jesus, turning, and looking at them following, saith unto them—What seek ye? And, they, said unto him—Rabbi! which meaneth, when translated, Teacher, Where abidest thou?
He saith unto them—Be coming, and ye shall see. They came, therefore, and saw where he abode, and, with him, they abode that day. It was about the tenth, hour.
One of the two that heard from John and followed him, was Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter.
The same findeth, first, his own brother Simon, and saith unto him—We have found the Messiah! which is, when translated, Anointed.
He led him unto Jesus. Jesus, looking at him, said—Thou, art Simon, the son of John,—thou, shalt be called, Cephas; which is to be translated, Peter.
On the morrow, he desired to go forth into Galilee. And Jesus findeth Philip, and saith unto him—Be following me!
Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip, findeth, Nathanael, and saith unto him—Him, of whom wrote Moses in the law, and the Prophets, have we found.—Jesus, son of Joseph, him from Nazareth!
And Nathanael said unto him—Out of Nazareth, can any good thing come? Philip saith unto him—Come, and see!
Jesus saw Nathanael coming unto him, and saith concerning him—See! Truly, an Israelite, in whom is no guile.
Nathanael saith unto him—Whence, dost thou, know, me? Jesus answered, and said unto him—Before Philip called thee,—when thou wast under the fig-tree, I saw thee.
Nathanael answered him—Rabbi! thou, art, the Son of God: Thou, art, King, of Israel.
Jesus answered, and said unto him—Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig-tree, believest thou? A greater thing than these, shalt thou see!
And he saith unto him—Verily, verily, I say unto you: Ye shall see heaven—when set open, and, the messengers of God, ascending and descending unto the Son of Man.