And he said to them, Truly I say to you, there are some of those who have stood here, who will, no, not taste of death until they see the kingdom of God come in power.
And after six days Jesus takes Peter and James and John, and leads them up onto a high mountain alone, in private. And he was transfigured before them,
and his garments became glistening, exceedingly white, as snow, such as no fuller on earth is able to whiten.
And Elijah with Moses appeared to them, and they were talking with Jesus.
And having responded, Peter says to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. And we could make three tabernacles: one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
For he knew not what he would say, for they were frightened.
And a cloud developed overshadowing them. And a voice came out of the cloud, This is my beloved Son. Hear ye him.
And suddenly having looked around, they saw no man anymore, but only Jesus with themselves.
And as they were coming down from the mountain, he commanded them that they should tell no man what they saw, except when the Son of man will rise from the dead.
And they kept the saying to themselves, discussing what is the rising from the dead.
And they questioned him, saying, The scholars say that Elijah must first come.
And having answered, he said to them, Elijah indeed comes first and restores all. And how it is written for the Son of man, that he would suffer many things and be rejected.
But I say to you, that Elijah has also come, and they did to him as much as they wanted, just as it is written for him.
And when they came to the disciples he saw a great multitude around them, and scholars disputing with them.
And straightaway all the multitude, having noticed him, were startled. And running near they greeted him.
And he questioned the scholars, What are ye disputing with them?
And having answered, one from the multitude said, Teacher, I brought my son to thee, who has a mute spirit.
And wherever it seizes him, it tears him, and he foams, and gnashes his teeth, and becomes limp. And I spoke to thy disciples that they might cast it out, and they were not able.
And having answered him, he says, O faithless generation, how long will I be with you? How long will I endure you? Bring him to me.
And they brought him to him. And when he saw him, straightaway the spirit convulsed him. And having fallen on the ground, he wallowed, foaming.
And he questioned his father, How much time is it since this has happened to him? And he said, From childhood.
And it often casts him both into the fire and into the waters so that it might destroy him. But if thou can do anything, help us, having compassion toward us.
And Jesus said to him, If thou are able to believe, all things are possible to him who believes.
And straightaway the father of the child having cried out, he said with tears, I believe. Lord, help thou my unbelief.
And when Jesus saw that a crowd was running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Thou mute and deaf spirit, I command thee to come out of him, and enter into him no more.
And having cried out, and having convulsed him much, it came out. And he became as if dead, so as for many to say that he was dead.
But having taken him by the hand, Jesus lifted him up, and he arose.
And when he came into the house, his disciples questioned him privately, We were not able to cast it out.
And he said to them, This kind can come out by nothing, except by prayer and fasting.
And having departed from there, they passed through Galilee, and he did not want that any man would know it.
For he taught his disciples, and said to them, The Son of man is delivered up into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And after being killed, he will rise the third day.
But they did not understand the saying, and were afraid to question him.
And he came to Capernaum. And having become in the house he questioned them, What were ye deliberating among yourselves on the way?
But they were silent, for on the way they discussed among each other, who is greater.
And having sat down, he called the twelve, and he says to them, If any man wants to be first, he will be last of all, and helper of all.
And having taken a child, he set it in the midst of them. And after embracing it, he said to them,
Whoever may receive one of such children in my name, receives me, and whoever may receive me, does not receive me, but him who sent me.
And John answered him, saying, Teacher, we saw a certain man, who does not follow us, casting out demons in thy name, and we forbade him, because he does not follow us.
But Jesus said, Forbid him not, for there is no man who will do a mighty work in my name, and will be able quickly to speak evil of me.
For he who is not against you is for you.
For whoever may give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye are of Christ, truly I say to you, he will, no, not lose his reward.
And whoever may cause one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it is good for him instead, if a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.
And if thy hand may cause thee to stumble, cut it off. It is good for thee to enter into life maimed, than having thy two hands to go into hell, into the unquenchable fire,
where their worm does not perish, and the fire is not quenched.
And if thy foot may cause thee to stumble, cut it off. It is good for thee to enter into life crippled, than having thy two feet to be cast into hell, into the unquenchable fire
where their worm does not perish, and the fire is not quenched.
And if thine eye may cause thee to stumble, pluck it out. It is good for thee to enter into the kingdom of God one-eyed, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the hell of fire,
where their worm does not perish, and the fire is not quenched.
For every man will be salted with fire, and every sacrifice will be salted with salt material.
The salt material is good, but if the salt material becomes saltless, by what will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace among each other.