FOURTEEN years afterwards I again went up to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus also along with us.
And I went up then by revelation, and laid before them that gospel which I preach among the Heathen, but in private conference with those who were of the first importance, that haply I might not run, nor had run in vain.
And even Titus, who was with me, though a Greek, was not compelled to be circumcised:
but this I did because of false brethren artfully introduced, who came to pry into our liberty which we hold in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage:
to whom not even for an hour have we yielded subjection, that the truth of the gospel might abide with you.
But from those who appeared men of the greatest importance, (what sort of men soever they were it maketh no difference to me: God accepteth not a man’s person;) for these important personages in conference added nothing to me;
but contrariwise when they saw that I was entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcision, as Peter was to the circumcision:
(for he that wrought powerfully by Peter in his apostolic mission to the circumcision, wrought mightily also by me among the Gentiles.)
And when they knew the grace which was bestowed on me, James and Cephas and John, who appeared to be the pillars of the church, gave unto me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, that we should go unto the Gentiles, and they to the circumcision:
only desiring that we would remember the poor―the very thing which I have also been diligent to perform.
But when Peter came to Antioch I withstood him to his face, because he was blameable.
For before certain persons came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles, but when they were come, he withdrew, and separated himself, fearing those of the circumcision.
And the other Jews were guilty of the same dissimulation with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they walked not directly according to the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter before them all, If thou, being a Jew, livest as the Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to judaize?
We who are Jews by descent, and not sinners sprung from Gentiles,
knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by faith in Christ, and not by works of the law; because by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified.
For if seeking to be justified by Christ, we also ourselves should be found sinners, is Christ then a minister of sin? God forbid.
For if I build up again the very same things which I have pulled down, I stamp myself a transgressor.
For I through the law am dead to the law, that I should live unto God.
I am crucified with Christ, yet I live; though no more I, but Christ liveth in me: and my present life in the flesh, is a life by faith in the Son of God, who hath loved me, and delivered up himself for me.
I do not set at nought the grace of God; for if righteousness came by the law, truly Christ hath died in vain.