And he arrived in Derbe and Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple named Timothy was there, the son of a certain believing Jewish woman, but his father was a Greek.
This one was being testified of by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium.
Paul desired this one to go forth with him, and taking him he circumcised him, because of the Jews being in those places. For they all knew his father, that he was a Greek.
And as they went through the cities, they delivered to them the need to keep the decrees that had been determined by the apostles and the elders in Jerusalem.
Then indeed the churches were being made stronger in the faith, and increased in number day by day.
And passing through the Phrygian and the Galatian country, being forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the Word in Asia,
coming against Mysia, they attempted to go along Bithynia, and the Spirit did not allow them.
And passing by Mysia, they came down into Troas.
And a vision appeared to Paul during the night: a certain man of Macedonia was standing, entreating him and saying, Passing over into Macedonia, help us!
And when he saw the vision, we immediately sought to go forth into Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to announce the gospel to them.
Then having set sail from Troas, we ran a straight course into Samothrace, and on the morrow into Neapolis,
and from there into Philippi, which is the first city of that part of Macedonia, a colony. And we were in this city, staying some days.
And on the day of the sabbaths, we went outside the city beside a river, where it was customary for prayer to be made . And sitting down, we spoke to the women who came together there .
And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple of the city of Thyatira, one reverencing God, listened, whose heart the Lord opened thoroughly to pay attention to the things being spoken by Paul.
And as she and her household were baptized, she entreated Paul , saying, If you have judged me to be believing in the Lord, entering into my house, remain. And she strongly urged us.
And it happened, as we went into a place of prayer, a certain girl slave having a Pythonic spirit met us, whose divining brought much gain to her lords.
Following after Paul and us, she cried out, saying, These men are slaves of the Most High God, who are announcing to us a way of salvation!
And she did this over many days. But becoming distressed, and turning to the demonic spirit, Paul said, In the name of Jesus Christ I command you to come out from her! And it came out in that same hour.
And seeing that the hope of their gain went out, having seized Paul and Silas, her lords dragged them to the market before the rulers.
And bringing them near to the magistrates, they said, These men are very much troubling our city, being Jews,
and announce customs which it is not lawful for us to receive, nor to do, being Romans.
And the crowd rose up against them. And tearing off their clothes, the magistrates ordered men to flog them .
And laying on them many stripes, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them securely,
who, receiving such a charge, threw them into the inner prison, and locked their feet in the stocks.
And having prayed, toward midnight Paul and Silas praised God in a hymn. And the prisoners listened to them.
And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the jail were shaken. And immediately all the doors were opened, and all of the bonds were loosened.
And having been awakened, and seeing that the doors of the prison had been opened, having drawn a sword, the jailer was about to do away with himself, supposing the prisoners to have escaped.
But Paul called out with a loud voice, saying, Do no harm to yourself! For we are all here.
And asking for lights, he rushed in. And becoming trembly, he fell before Paul and Silas.
And leading them outside, he said, Sirs, what must I do that I may be saved?
And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household.
And they spoke the Word of the Lord to him, and to all those in his house.
And taking them in that hour of the night, he washed from their stripes. And he and all those belonging to him were baptized at once.
And bringing them up to the house, he set a table before them , and exulted whole-housely, believing God.
And day having come, the magistrates sent the floggers, saying, let those men go.
And the jailer announced these words to Paul, The magistrates have sent that you be let go. Now, then, going out, proceed in peace.
But Paul said to them, Having beaten us publicly, being Romans and uncondemned men, they threw us into prison. And now do they throw us out secretly? No, indeed! But coming themselves, let them bring us out.
And the floggers reported these words to the magistrates. And hearing that they were Romans, they were afraid.
And coming, they begged them . And bringing them out, they asked them to go out of the city.
And going out from the prison, they went into the house of Lydia. And seeing the brothers, they exhorted them, and went out.