All wisdom comes  from the Lord,
And is with him forever.

The sand of the seas, and the drops of rain,
And the days of eternity, who shall count?

The height of the heaven, and the breadth of the earth,
And the deep, and wisdom, who shall search them  out?

Wisdom has been created before all things,
And the understanding of prudence from everlasting.


To whom has the root of wisdom been revealed?
And who has known her shrewd counsels?


There is one wise, greatly to be feared,
The Lord sitting upon his throne:

He created her,
And saw, and counted her,
And poured her out upon all his works.

She is  with all flesh according to his gift;
And he gave her freely to them that love him.

The fear of the Lord is glory, and exultation,
And gladness, and a crown of rejoicing.

The fear of the Lord shall delight the heart,
And shall give gladness, and joy, and length of days.

Whoso fears the Lord, it shall go well with him at the last,
And in the day of his death he shall be blessed.

To fear the Lord is the beginning of wisdom;
And it was created together with the faithful in the womb.

With men she  laid an eternal foundation;
And with their seed shall she be had in trust.

To fear the Lord is the fulness of wisdom;
And she satiateth men with her fruits.

She shall fill all her house with desirable things,
And her garners with her produce.

The fear of the Lord is the crown of wisdom,
Making peace and  perfect health to flourish.

He both saw and counted her;
He rained down skill and knowledge of understanding,
And exalted the honor of them that hold her fast.

To fear the Lord is the root of wisdom;
And her branches are length of days.


Unjust wrath can never be justified;
For the sway of his wrath is his downfall.

A man that is longsuffering will  bear  for a season,
And afterward gladness shall spring up to him;

He will hide his words  for a season,
And the lips of many shall tell forth his understanding.

A parable of knowledge is in the treasures of wisdom;
But godliness is an abomination to a sinner.

If you desire wisdom, keep the commandments,
And the Lord shall give her to you freely:

For the fear of the Lord is wisdom and instruction;
And in  faith and meekness is his good pleasure.

Disobey not the fear of the Lord;
And come not to him with a double heart.

Be not a hypocrite in the mouths of men;
And take good heed to your lips.

Exalt not yourself, lest you fall,
And bring dishonor upon your soul;
And so  the Lord shall reveal your secrets,
And shall cast you down in the midst of the congregation;
Because you came not to the fear of the Lord,
And your heart was full of deceit.
