And they came to the other side of the sea into the country of the Gadarenes.
And when he came out of the boat, straightaway there met him out of the sepulchers a man with an unclean spirit who had his habitation among the sepulchers.
And no man was able to bind him, not even with chains.
Because he was often bound with shackles and chains, and the chains were pulled apart by him, and the shackles broken in pieces. And no man had strength to subdue him.
And always, night and day, in the mountains and in the sepulchers, he was crying out, and cutting himself with stones.
And when he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and worshiped him.
And having cried out in a great voice, he said, What is with me and with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the Most High God? I adjure thee by God, do not torment me.
For he said to him, Come out from the man, thou unclean spirit.
And he demanded him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, because we are many.
And he besought him much that he would not send them outside of the territory.
Now there was near the mountain a great herd of swine feeding.
And all the demons besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, so that we may enter into them.
And straightaway, Jesus allowed them. And the unclean spirits having come out, entered into the swine. And the herd stampeded down the slope into the sea, and were drowned in the sea. And there were about two thousand.
And those who fed the swine fled, and reported in the city and in the fields. And they came to see what it was that happened.
And they come to Jesus, and see the man who was demon-possessed, sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind (the man who had the legion), and they were afraid.
And those who saw it related to them how it happened to the man who was demon-possessed, and about the swine.
And they began to beg him to depart from their borders.
And as he entered into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed besought him that he might be with him.
But Jesus did not allow him, but says to him, Go to thy house to thy men, and report to them how much the Lord has done for thee, and was merciful to thee.
And he departed, and began to proclaim in Decapolis how much Jesus did for him. And all men marveled.
And when Jesus crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a great multitude gathered to him, and he was near the sea.
And behold, one of the synagogue rulers comes, Jairus by name. And having seen him, he falls at his feet,
and besought him much, saying, My little daughter has a terminal condition, so that having come, thou may lay thy hands on her, that she may be saved and will live.
And he went with him, and a great multitude followed him, and they thronged him.
And a certain woman, being with an issue of blood twelve years,
and having suffered many things by many physicians, and having spent all of her things, and was helped nothing, but who became worse instead,
when she heard about Jesus, having come in the crowd from behind, she touched his garment.
For she said, If I but touch his garments, I will be healed.
And straightaway the flow of her blood was dried up, and she knew in the body that she was healed of her scourge.
And straightaway, Jesus, when he recognized in himself that power went forth from him, having turned around in the crowd, he said, Who touched my garments?
And his disciples said to him, Thou see the multitude crowding thee, and thou say, Who touched me?
And he looked around to see the woman who did this thing.
But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what has happened to her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.
And he said to her, Daughter, thy faith has healed thee. Go in peace, and be healthy from thy scourge.
While he still spoke, they come from the synagogue ruler saying, Thy daughter died, why still trouble the teacher?
But straightaway, Jesus, having heard the word spoken, says to the ruler of the synagogue, Fear not, only believe.
And he allowed no man to accompany him except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.
And he comes to the house of the synagogue ruler, and sees a commotion, much weeping and wailing.
And when he entered in, he says to them, Why do ye make a commotion, and weep? The child did not die, but sleeps.
And they ridiculed him. But he, having put them all out, takes the father of the child and the mother and those with him, and enters in where the child was lying.
And having taken the child's hand, he says to her, Talitha cumi. Which is, being interpreted, Little girl, I say to thee, awake.
And straightaway the little girl rose up and walked, for she was twelve years old. And they were amazed with a great amazement.
And he commanded them much that no man should know this. And he said to give her to eat.