Jude, a bondman of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to the called, sanctified in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ:
Mercy to you and peace and love be multiplied.
Beloved, making all diligence to write to you about the common salvation, I had need to write to you exhorting you to earnestly contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the sanctified.
For certain men have sneaked in, those written about formerly for this condemnation, irreverent men, perverting the grace of our God into licentiousness, and denying our only Master God, and our Lord Jesus Christ.
Now I want to remind you, ye having known this once, that the Lord, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe.
And the agents who did not keep their own principality, but left their own habitation, he has kept reserved in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day.
As Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, the same kind of way with these who indulged in fornication, and who went rear of queer flesh, are set forth an example, undergoing the punishment of eternal fire.
Nevertheless in the same way also these men who dream, indeed defile flesh, and reject lordship, and speak evil of dignities.
But Michael the arch-agent, when he disputed with the devil, contending about the body of Moses, dared not bring a railing judgment, but said, May the Lord rebuke thee.
But these men indeed revile whatever they have not seen. But whatever they understand naturally, as the irrational beasts, in these things they are corrupted.
Woe to them! Because they went in the way of Cain, and rushed to the error of Balaam's reward, and perished in the rebellion of Korah.
These are reefs in your love-feasts, feasting together, fearlessly tending to themselves, waterless clouds carried along by winds, autumn trees without fruit, who died twice having being uprooted,
wild waves of the sea foaming out their own shame, wandering stars for whom the gloom of darkness has been reserved into an age.
And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied about these men, saying, Behold, the Lord came with his holy myriads,
to execute judgment against all, and to convict all the irreverent of them about all the works of their own irreverence that they have done irreverently, and about all the harsh things that irreverent sinners spoke against him.
These are grumblers, fault-finders, going according to their lusts, and their mouth speaks overblown things, marveling personages for the sake of advantage.
But ye, beloved, remember the sayings previously spoken by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
that they told you that there will be scoffers during the last time, going according to their own desires of irreverences.
These are those who make divisions, world-soul men, not having Spirit.
But ye beloved, building up yourselves in your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
keep yourselves in the love of God, awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ for eternal life.
And on some be ye merciful-being discerning.
And in fear save some, snatching them out of the fire, hating even the garment that was stained by the flesh.
Now to him who is able to keep them non-stumbling, and to present before his glory, unblemished in gladness,
to the only wise God our Savior, is glory, majesty, dominion and power, both now and into all the ages. Truly.