And Job answered Jehovah and said:
I know that You can do all, and no purpose is withheld from You.
Who is this hiding counsel without knowledge? So I declared, but did not understand things too wonderful for me; yea, I did not know.
I pray, Listen, and I will speak; I will ask You, and You will make me know.
I have heard of You by hearing of the ear, but now my eye has seen You;
Therefore, I despise myself , and I have repented on dust and ashes.
And it happened, after Jehovah spoke these words to Job, Jehovah said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My anger flows against you and your two friends. For You have not spoken the right about Me, as My servant Job.
And now take for you seven young bulls and seven rams and go to My servant Job, and offer a burnt offering for yourselves. And My servant Job will pray for you. Surely I will lift up his face so as not to do with you according to your folly, in that you have not spoken the right about Me, as My servant Job.
And Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as Jehovah spoke to them. And Jehovah lifted the face of Job.
And when he prayed for his friends, Jehovah turned the captivity of Job; and Jehovah added to Job all which had been his , to double.
And all his brothers and all his sisters came to him; and all knowing him before. And they ate bread with him in his house and consoled him and comforted him as to all the evil that Jehovah had brought on him. And they each gave him a piece of money, and each one ring of gold.
And Jehovah blessed the latter days of Job more than the earlier days . And to him were fourteen thousand sheep and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she-asses.
And he had seven sons and three daughters.
And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third, Keren-happuch.
And in all the land there were not found women as beautiful as Job's daughters. And their father gave them inheritance among their brothers.
After this Job lived a hundred and forty years. And he saw his sons, and his grandsons, even four generations.
And Job died, being old and full of days.