What, then, shall we say that Abraham our father has found, as it respects the flesh?
For if Abraham was justified by works, he has cause for boasting, but not before God.
For what says the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness.
Now to him that works, the reward is not counted as a favor, but as a debt:
but to him that works not, but believes on him that justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.
Even as David also speaks of the blessedness of the man to whom God counts righteousness without works, saying:
Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not charge sin.
Comes this blessedness then on those who are circumcised only, or on those who are uncircumcised also? For we say that faith was counted to Abraham for righteousness.
Under what circumstances, then, was it counted? After he was circumcised? Or, while he was uncircumcised? Not after he was circumcised, but while he was uncircumcised.
And he received the sign of circumcision, as a seal of the righteousness of the faith that he had while he was uncircumcised, in order that he might be the father of all that believe, even in a state of uncircumcision, so that righteousness might be counted to them also;
and the father of circumcision to those who are not only circumcised, but who, also, walk in the steps of that faith which our father Abraham had while he was yet uncircumcised.
For the promise that he should be the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, nor to his posterity, through law, but through the righteousness of faith.
For if they that are of the law be heirs, the faith is made powerless, and the promise is unmeaning;
for the law inflicts punishment; for where no law is, there is no transgression.
Therefore, the inheritance is by faith, that it may be according to grace, in order that the promise may be sure to all his posterity, not to those only who are of the law, but to those, also, who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all,
(as it is written: I have made you a father of many nations,) in the sight of him in whom he believed, even God, who makes the dead alive, and calls those things which are not, as though they were.
He, against hope, confidently believed that he would become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken: So shall your posterity be.
And not being weak in faith, he considered not his own body, which was already dead, (for he was about a hundred years old,) nor the deadness of Sarah’s womb;
and he doubted not, through unbelief, with respect to the promise of God, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God,
and being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able also to perform.
For this reason, it was counted to him for righteousness.
But that it was counted to him, was not written for his sake alone,
but for our sakes also, to whom it shall be counted, if we believe on him that raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
who was delivered up for our offenses, and raised again for our justification.