But, Saul, yet breathing threatening and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, going unto the High-priest,
asked from him letters for Damascus, unto the synagogues; to the end that, if he should find, any, who were of The Way, whether men or women, he might bring them, bound, unto Jerusalem.
But, as he was journeying, it came to pass that he was drawing near unto Damascus, and, suddenly, there flashed around him a light out of heaven;
And, falling unto the earth, he heard a voice saying unto him—Saul! Saul! why, me, art thou persecuting?
And he said—Who art thou, Lord? And, he, [said] —I, am Jesus, whom, thou, art persecuting!
But rise up, and enter into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do.
But, the men who were accompanying him, stood speechless,—hearing, indeed, the voice, but beholding no one.
And Saul arose from the earth, and, his eyes being opened, he could see nothing; and, taking him by the hand, they led him into Damascus,—
And he was three days without seeing, and did neither eat nor drink.
Now there was a certain disciple in Damascus, by name Ananias; and, the Lord, said unto him in a vision—Ananias! And, he, said—Lo! I, [am here], Lord!
And the Lord [said] unto him—Rise! go into the street which is called Straight, and seek, in the house of Judas, one Saul, by name, of Tarsus. For lo! he is praying,—
And hath seen a man [in a vision], Ananias by name, coming in and laying on him his hands, to the intent he should see.
And Ananias, answered—Lord! I have heard from many concerning this man, how many evil things unto thy saints he hath done in Jerusalem;
And, here, he hath authority from the High-priests to bind all them that call upon thy name.
But the Lord said unto him—Be going thy way; for, a choice vessel unto me, is this man, to bear my name before both [the] nations and kings, and the sons of Israel;
For, I, will let him understand how many things he must needs, for my name, suffer.
And Ananias departed, and entered into the house; and, laying upon him his hands, said—Saul, brother! The Lord, hath sent me,—Jesus, who appeared unto thee in the way by which thou wast coming,—that thou mayest recover sight, and be filled with Holy Spirit.
And, straightway, there fell from him—from his eyes,—as it were scales; he recovered sight also, and, arising, was immersed:
And, receiving food, gained strength. And he came to be with the disciples who were in Damascus certain days;
And, straightway, in the synagogues, he began proclaiming Jesus, that, This, is the Son of God.
And all who were hearing were astonished, and began to say—is not, this, he who destroyed, in Jerusalem, them that invoke this name; and, here, for this purpose, had come, in order that he might lead them, bound, unto the High-priests?
But, Saul, was the more gaining power; and was confounding the Jews who dwelt in Damascus, shewing, by comparison, that—This, is the Christ.
Now, when a considerable number of days were being fulfilled, the Jews took counsel together to kill him;
But their plot was made known unto Saul,—and they were even narrowly watching the gates, both day and night, that they might kill him;
But the disciples, taking him by night, through the wall, let him down, lowering him in a basket.
And, when he had arrived in Jerusalem, he made attempts to join himself unto the disciples; and all were afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple.
But, Barnabas, taking him, brought him unto the apostles, and related unto them,—how, in the way, he had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken unto him; and how, in Damascus, he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.
And he was with them, coming in and going out in Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord;
And was both speaking and discussing with the Grecian Jews,—but, they, were setting to work to kill him.
And the brethren, discovering it, brought him down into Caesarea, and sent him away unto Tarsus.
So then, the assembly throughout the whole of Judaea and Galilee and Samaria, had peace, building itself up, and going on its way in the fear of the Lord; and, by the advocacy of the Holy Spirit, was being multiplied.
And it came to pass that, Peter, going through all [quarters] went down unto the saints also dwelling in Lydda.
And he found there a certain man, by name Aeneas, who, for eight years, had been lying prostrate upon a bed, for he was paralysed.
And Peter said unto him—Aeneas! Jesus Christ healeth thee! Arise, and smooth thy bed for thyself. And, straightway, he arose.
And all who dwelt in Lydda and Saron, saw him,—and, they, turned unto the Lord.
Now, in Joppa, there was a certain female disciple, by name Tabitha, which, being translated, means Dorcas [a Gazelle] . The same, was full of good works and alms which she was doing.
And it came to pass in those days, that she, sickening, died; and, bathing her, they laid her in an upper room.
Now, Lydda being nigh unto Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was therein, sent off two men unto him, beseeching him—Do not delay to come through unto us!
And Peter, arising, went with them,—whom, when he arrived, they brought up into the upper room; and there stood by him all the widows, weeping, and showing the tunics and mantles—whatsoever things Dorcas was making while she was with them.
But Peter, putting them all outside, knelt down and prayed; and, turning towards the body, said—Tabitha, arise! And she, opening her eyes and seeing Peter, sat up.
And, giving her his hand, he raised her up; and, calling the saints and the widows, presented her, living.
And it became known throughout the whole of Joppa, and many believed upon the Lord.
And it came to pass that, for a considerable number of days, he abode in Joppa, with one Simon, a tanner.