And in the fifteenth year of the government of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate governing Judea, and Herod ruling as tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip ruling as tetrarch of Iturea and the Trachonitis country, and Lysanias ruling as tetrarch of Abilene,
upon the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came on John the son of Zacharias in the desert.
And he came into the neighborhood of the Jordan proclaiming a baptism of repentance for remission of sins,
as it has been written in the roll of the words of Isaiah the prophet, saying: " the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make His paths straight.
every valley shall be filled up, and every mountain and hill shall be made low; and the crooked places shall be made into straight, and the rough into smooth ways;"
"and all flesh shall see the salvation of God." Isa. 40:35
Then he said to the crowds going out to be baptized by him, Offspring of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath?
Then bring forth fruits worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say within yourselves, We have Abraham as father. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham out of these stones.
And also the axe is already laid to the root of the trees; therefore, every tree not producing good fruit is being cut down and being thrown into the fire.
And the crowd asked him, saying, What then shall we do?
And answering, he said to them, The one that has two tunics, let him give to him that has not. And the one that has foods, let him do the same.
And tax collectors also came to be baptized. And they said to him, Teacher, what shall we do?
And he said to them, Continue to do no more than that commanded to you.
And also ones serving as soldiers asked him, saying, And we, what shall we do? And he said to them, Do not shake violently anyone nor accuse falsely, and be satisfied with your pay.
But the people were expecting, and all reasoning in their hearts about John, lest perhaps he is the Christ,
John answered all, saying, I indeed baptize you with water; but He stronger than I comes, of whom I am not fit to loosen the thong of His sandals. He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit and fire,
whose sifting fan is in His hand; and He will fully purge His threshing-floor, and will gather the wheat into His barn, but He will burn: the chaff with fire that cannot be put out.
And then indeed exhorting many different things, he preached the gospel to the people.
But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him concerning his brother Philip's wife, Herodias, and concerning all the evil things Herod did,
he also added this above all, he even shut up John in the prison.
And it happened, in the baptizing of all the people, Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened;
and the Holy Spirit came down in a bodily form as a dove upon Him. And there was a voice out of Heaven, saying, You are My Son, the Beloved; I am delighted in You. Psa. 2:7; Gen 22:2; Isa. 42:1
And Jesus Himself was beginning to be about thirty years old, being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph, the son of Heli,
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Janna, the son of Joseph,
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semei, the son of Joseph, the son of Judah,
the son of Joannas, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri,
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmodam, the son of Er,
the son of Joses, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim,
the son of Melea, the son of Menan, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon,
the son of Amminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Hezron, the son of Pharez, the son of Judah,
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Salah,
the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan;
son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.