And God spake all these words saying:—
I, am Yahweh thy God,—who have brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of servants:—
Thou shalt not have other gods besides me.
Thou shalt not make to thee an image, or any form, that is in the heavens above,—or that is in the earth beneath,—or that is in the waters beneath the earth:
thou shalt not bow thyself down to them nor be led to serve them—For, I, Yahweh, thy God, am a jealous GOD, visiting the iniquity of fathers upon sons, unto three [generations] and, unto four, of them that hate me;
but shewing lovingkindness unto thousands [of generations],—of them who love me, and keep my commandments.
Thou shalt not utter the name of Yahweh thy God for falsehood, for Yahweh will not let him go unpunished who uttereth his name for falsehood.
Remember the sabbath day, to hallow it:
Six days, shalt thou labour, and do all thy work;
but, the seventh day, is a sabbath unto Yahweh thy God,—thou shalt do no work, thou nor thy son nor thy daughter nor thy servant, nor thy handmaid, nor thy beast, nor thy sojourner who is within thy gates,
For, in six days, did Yahweh make the heavens and the earth, [and] the sea—and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day,—for this cause, Yahweh blessed the sabbath day and hallowed it.
Honour thy father, and thy mother,—that thy days may be prolonged upon the soil, which Yahweh thy God is about to give unto thee.
Thou shalt not commit murder.
Thou shalt not commit adultery.
Thou shalt not steal.
Thou shalt not testify against thy neighbour, with a witness of falsehood.
Thou shalt not covet, thy neighbour’s house,—thou shalt not covet, thy neighbour’s wife nor his servant nor his handmaid nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything which belongeth unto thy neighbour.
And, all the people, were witnessing the voices and the torches, and the sound of the horn, and the mountain smoking,—so then the people were struck with awe and shrank back, and stood afar off.
And they said unto Moses, Speak, thou, with us, and we will hear,—but let not God speak with us lest we die.
And Moses said unto the people—Do not fear, for to the end he may prove you, hath God come,—and to the end the reverence of him may be upon your faces that ye sin not.
So then the people stood afar off, and, Moses, approached unto the thick gloom, where God was.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses, Thus, shalt thou say, unto the sons of Israel,—Ye yourselves, have seen that out of the heavens, have I spoken with you.
Ye shall not make [aught] beside me,—neither gods of silver, nor gods of gold, shall ye make to yourselves.
An altar of earth, shalt thou make to me, then shalt thou offer thereupon thine ascending-sacrifices and thy peace-offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen. In every place where I may mention my name, will I come in unto thee and will bless thee.
But if, an altar of stones, thou wilt make to me, thou shalt not build them hewn,—for as soon as thou hast lifted, thy sharp tool, thereupon, thou hast profaned it;
neither shalt thou go up, by steps unto mine altar,—lest by any means thy shame be discovered thereupon.