Thus, saith Yahweh—Behold me! stirring up against Babylon, And against the inhabitants of the centre of them who rise up against me,—A wind that destroyeth;
And I will send to Babylon winnowers, And they shall winnow her, And shall empty her land,—For they are against her round about in the day of calamity.
Let not the archer tread his bow, Nor lift himself up in his coat of mail,—And do not spare her young men, Devote to destruction all her host.
So shall they fall wounded in the land of Chaldea,—Yea thrust through, in her streets,
For Israel and Judah have not been widowed Of their God, Of Yahweh of hosts,—But, their land, hath been filled with punishment for guilt from the Holy One of Israel
Flee out of the midst of Babylon And deliver ye every man his own life, Be not cut off in her punishment,—For it is Yahweh’s, time of avenging, A recompense, is he repaying unto her.
A cup of gold, was Babylon in the hand of Yahweh, Making drunk all the earth,—Of her wine, have the nations drunk, For this cause have the nations been acting as men who are mad.
Suddenly, hath Babylon fallen and been broken,—Howl ye over her Fetch balsam for her pain, Peradventure she shall be healed!
We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed, Leave her and let us go every one to his own land,—For her judgment, reacheth unto the heavens, And mounteth as far as the skies.
Yahweh hath brought forth our righteousnesses,—Come and let us relate in Zion the work of Yahweh our God.
Polish the arrows, Lay hold of the shields,—Yahweh hath roused the spirit of the kings of the Medes, For against Babylon, his purpose is, to destroy her,—For it is, The avenging of Yahweh, The avenging of his temple.
Against the walls of Babylon, Lift ye up a standard, Strengthen ye the watch, Station the watchmen, Make ready the ambuscades,—For Yahweh hath both planned and also performed that which he had spoken against the inhabitants of Babylon.
O thou who dwellest upon many waters, Who aboundest in treasures,—Come hath thine end! The measure of thine unrighteous gain!
Yahweh of hosts hath sworn, by his own soul: Surely I have filled thee with men as with locusts, And they have answered against thee with a shout.
He that Made the earth in his might, Established the world in his wisdom,—And in his understanding, stretched out the heavens
By the voice that he uttered, there was a tumult of waters in the heavens, And he caused vapours to ascend from the end of the earth,—Lightnings for the rain, made he, And brought forth wind out of his treasures.
Every son of earth had become too brutish to know,—Every goldsmith, hath been put to shame, by a graven image,—For a falsehood, is his molten image Seeing there is no breath in them:
Vanity, they are, A handiwork of mockeries,—In the time of their visitation, shall they perish.
Not like these, is the portion of Jacob, For the fashioner of all things, is he! And the portion of his inheritance,—Yahweh of hosts, is his name.
A war-club, art thou for me, Weapons of war; Therefore will I Beat down with thee—nations, and Destroy with thee—kingdoms;
and Beat down with thee—the horse and his rider,—and Beat down with thee—the chariot and its rider;
and Beat down with thee—man and woman, and Beat down with thee—elder and youth, and Beat down with thee—young man and virgin;
and Beat down with thee—the shepherd and his flock, and Beat down with thee—the plowman and his yoke;—and Beat down with thee—governors and deputies:
So will I recompense to Babylon, And to all the inhabitants of Chaldea, All their wickedness which they have committed against Zion before your eyes,—Declareth Yahweh.
Behold me! against thee, O destroying mountain Declareth Yahweh, That destroyest all the earth,—Therefore will I stretch out my hand over thee, And roll thee down from the crags, And make of thee a burning mountain:
So shall they not fetch from thee A stone for a corner nor A stone for a foundation,—For desolations age-abiding, shalt thou become Declareth Yahweh.
Set ye up an ensign in the earth Blow ye a horn among the nations Hallow against her—nations, Summon against her the kingdoms of Ararat Minni, and Ashkenaz,—Set in charge against her a marshal, Bring up cavalry like hairy locusts:
Hallow against her—nations, With the kings of Media, With her governors and all her deputies,—And with all the land of his dominion:
Then did the land tremble and was in pain,—For the plans of Yahweh, had been established against Babylon, To make the land of Babylon an astonishment, without inhabitant.
The heroes of Babylon have ceased to fight They have remained in the strongholds, Parched is their might, They have become women,—They have set fire to her habitations, Broken are her bars!
Runner to meet runner, shall they run, And teller to meet teller,-To tell the king of Babylon, That captured is his city at the end!
and The fords, have been seized, and The reeds, have they burned with fire; and The men of war, are dismayed!
For, thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel, The daughter of Babylon, is like a threshing, floor at the time of treading her: Yet a little, and the time of harvest shall overtake her.
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon—Hath devoured me Hath vexed me, Hath set me down as an empty vessel, He hath swallowed me like a sea-monster, He hath filled his belly with my dainties,—He hath driven me away!
The violence done to me and to my flesh, be upon Babylon! Shall the inhabitress of Zion say,—Yea, my blood, be upon the inhabitant of Chaldea! Shall Jerusalem say.
Therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh, Behold me! pleading thy cause, So then I will execute the avenging of thee; And will dry up her sea, And make dry her spring:
Thus shall Babylon become—Heaps A habitation of jackals An astonishment, and A hissing, Without inhabitant.
Together, like wild lions, shall they roar,—They have growled like lions’ whelps.
When they are heated, I will spread their banquets, And let them drink that they may become uproarious, So shall they sleep an age-abiding sleep and not wake,—Declareth Yahweh.
I will bring them down As fat lambs to slaughter,—As rams with he-goats.
How hath Sheshach, been captured! How hath the praise of all the earth been seized! How hath Babylon become an astonishment among the nations!
The sea, hath gone up over Babylon,—With the multitude of its rolling waves, is she covered.
Her cities have become, an astonishment, A land parched up, and a waste plain,—A land wherein shall no man dwell, Nor pass through them a son of the earth-born!
So will I bring punishment upon Bel in Babylon, And will bring forth what he hath swallowed out of his mouth, And the nations shall stream unto him no more,—Even the wall of Babylon hath fallen!
Come ye forth out of her midst O my people, And deliver ye every man his own life,—Because of the glow of the anger of Yahweh.
And let not your heart be timid, nor be ye afraid, Because of the report that is reported in the earth When there shall come in one year, the report And after that in another year, the report, With violence in the earth, and ruler upon ruler.
Therefore, lo! days coming when I will bring punishment upon the images of Babylon, And all her land, shall turn pale,—Yea, all her wounded, shall fall in her midst.
Then shall shout over Babylon—heavens and earth and all who are therein,—For out of the North, shall come to her the spoilers Declareth Yahweh.
Not only hath Babylon, caused the fall of the slain of Israel,—By Babylon, also have fallen the slain of all the earth.
Ye that have escaped the sword, depart do not stand still,—Remember, from afar Yahweh, Let, Jerusalem, come up on your heart:-
We have turned pale for we have heard a reproach, Confusion, hath covered our faces,—For aliens have entered upon the hallowed places of the house of Yahweh!
Therefore, lo! days are coming, Declareth Yahweh, When I will bring punishment upon her images; And throughout all her land, shall the pierced one groan.
Though Babylon should mount the heavens, And though she should fortify her strong high-place, From me, should come spoilers unto her Declareth Yahweh.
A voice of outcry from Babylon! And a great crash from the land of the Chaldeans!
For, Yahweh, is spoiling Babylon, And will destroy out of her the loud voice,—Though their waves have roared like many waters, Been uttered the loud boast of their voice.
For there hath come upon her—upon Babylon—a spoiler, And captured are their heroes And broken are their bows,—For, a GOD of recompenses, is Yahweh, He will surely repay.
Then will I make drunk—Her princes and her wise men, Her governors, and her deputies and her heroes, And they shall sleep an age-abiding sleep, and not wake,—Declareth the King, Yahweh of hosts, is his name.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts—The broad walls of Babylon, shall be laid utterly bare, And, her lofty gates, with fire, shall be burned,—And peoples shall labour for emptiness, And populations, for the fire, shall weary themselves.
The word which Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah son of Neriah son of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah king of Judah into Babylon, in the fourth year of his reign,—now Seraiah, was travelling-marshal.
So Jeremiah wrote all the calamity which was to come unto Babylon in one scroll; even all these words which have been written against Babylon.
Then said Jeremiah unto Seraiah,—When thou comest into Babylon, then shalt thou look out and read all these words;
and thou shalt say—O Yahweh! thou, thyself, hast spoken against this place to cut it off, That there be in it no inhabitant Neither man nor beast,—But desolations age-abiding, shall it become!
And it shall be when thou hast made an end of reading this scroll, that thou shalt bind thereunto a stone, and cast it in the midst of the Euphrates,
Then shalt thou say,—In like manner, shall Babylon sink and not rise Because of the calamity which I am about to bring thereupon: So shall they perish. Thus far, are, the words of Jeremiah.