The oracle of the word of Yahweh on the land of Hadrach, and, Damascus, shall be the resting-place thereof,—For, Yahweh, hath an eye—to mankind, and to all the tribes of Israel;
Moreover also, Hamath, adjoineth thereto, Tyre and Zidon,—because very wise;
Therefore did Tyre build a stronghold for herself,—and did heap up silver like dust, yea gold, like the mire of the lanes.
Lo! My Lord, shall dispossess her, and smite, into the sea, her fortress,—and, she herself, in fire, shall be consumed.
Ashkelon, shall see, and fear, Gaza, also, which shall writhe in great anguish, Ekron, also, because abashed is her expectation,—and the king, shall perish, from Gaza, and, Ashkelon, not be inhabited;
And there shall be seated a half-breed in Ashdod,—So will I cut off the arrogance of the Philistines;
And will take away his reeking prey out of his mouth, and his abominations, from between his teeth, but, he that is left, even he, shall belong to our God,—So shall he become as a chief in Judah, and, Ekron, as a Jebusite!
Then will I encamp about my house—against an army, against him that passeth by, and against him that returneth, neither shall an exactor, tread them down any more,—for, now, have I seen with mine own eyes.
Exult greatly, O daughter of Zion, Shout in triumph, O daughter of Jerusalem, Lo! thy king, cometh unto thee, vindicated and victorious, is he,—lowly, and riding upon an ass, yea, upon a colt, a young ass.
So will he cut off the chariot out of Ephraim, and the horse out of Jerusalem, and the war-bow, shall be cut off, So shall he speak peace to the nations, and, his dominion, shall be from sea to sea, and from the river [Euphrates] to the ends of the earth.
As for thee also,—By the blood of thy covenant, have I sent forth thy prisoners out of a pit, wherein is no water.
Return to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope,—Even to-day, do I declare—Double, will I return to thee!
For I have bent for me—Judah, As a bow, have I grasped Ephraim, Thus will I rouse up thy sons, O Zion, against the sons of Greece, and will make thee as the sword of a mighty one.
But, Yahweh, over them, will appear, and forth shall go, as lightning, his arrow,—Yea, My Lord Yahweh, with a horn, will blow, and will move along in the whirlwinds of the south.
Yahweh of hosts, will throw a covering over them, so shall they eat, and trample underfoot sling-stones, and shall drink—shall shout as with wine,—and shall be filled like tossing-bowls,—like the corners of an altar.
So will Yahweh their God, save them, on that day. yea, as a flock of sheep, his people,—for [they shall be like] the jewels of a diadem sparkling over his land.
For how excellent it is! Yea how beautiful! Corn, shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the maidens.