And Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:
So my thoughts cause me to answer, even because of my haste in me.
I have heard the instruction of my chastisement; and the spirit from my understanding makes me reply.
Do you know this from of old, from the setting of man on earth,
that the exulting of the wicked is near an end , and the joy of the ungodly is for a moment?
Though his height mounts up to the heavens, and his head touches to the clouds,
he shall perish forever like his dung; they who see him shall say, Where is he?
He flies off like a dream, and is not found; and is driven away like a night vision.
An eye glimpsed him, but will not again; yea, his place shall not again see him.
His sons seek the poor's favors; and his hands shall restore his wealth.
His bones are full of his youthful vigor, but it lies down on the dust with him.
Even if evil is sweet in his mouth (he hides it under his tongue),
he spares it, and will not leave it; yea, keeps holding it in his mouth);
yet his food in his belly shall be turned; the gall of asps is within him.
He swallows wealth, but vomits it; God drives it out from his belly.
He shall suck the poison of asps; the viper's tongue shall slay him.
He shall not see the rivers, the flowings of torrents of honey and curd;
giving back his gain, and he will not eat. As to the wealth of his trading, even he shall not enjoy it .
For he crushed and forsook the poor; he stole a house, but he had not built it.
Surely he shall not know ease in his belly; he will not escape with his things of desire.
There is no residue for his eating; because of this, his good will not last.
In the fullness of his scorn, it is strait for him; the hand of every wretched one shall come upon him.
It shall happen at the filling of his belly, He shall cast on him the fury of His wrath, and He shall rain on him while he is eating.
He may flee from the iron weapon, a bow of bronze shall pierce him.
One draws it, and treads it from behind, even lightning from his gall; terror is upon him.
All darkness is hidden for secret treasuring; fire not blown shall consume him; those left in his tent shall be broken.
The heavens shall expose his iniquity; and the earth shall be raising itself up against him.
The increase of his house shall depart, flowing away in the day of His wrath.
This is the evil man's portion from God, and the inheritance of his word from God.