And it happened many days after the LORD had given rest to Israel from all their enemies all around, Joshua became old, far along in days.
And Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders and for their heads, and for their judges, and for their officers, and said to them, I am old, far along in days.
And you have seen all that the LORD your God has done to all these nations because of you. For the LORD your God is He who has fought for you.
Behold, I have divided to you by lot these nations that are left to be an inheritance for your tribes, from Jordan, with all the nations that I have cut off, even to the Great Sea westward.
And the LORD your God shall put them out from before you, and drive them out of your sight. And you shall possess their land, as the LORD your God has promised to you.
And be very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, so that you do not turn aside from it to the right or to the left;
so that you do not come among these nations, these that remain among you; neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves to them.
But cleave to the LORD your God, as you have done to this day.
For the LORD has driven out from before you great and strong nations. But as for you, no one has been able to stand before you to this day.
One man of you shall chase a thousand. For the LORD your God is He who fights for you, as He has promised you.
And take good heed to yourselves that you love the LORD your God.
Otherwise, if you go back in any way, and hold to those left of these nations, these that remain among you, and shall marry them and go in to them and they to you,
know for a certainty that the LORD your God will no more drive out these nations from before you. But they shall be snares and traps to you, and whips in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this good land which the LORD your God has given you.
And behold, today I am going the way of all the earth. And you know in all your heart and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the good things which the LORD your God spoke concerning you. All have come to pass to you. Not one thing of it has failed.
And it shall be, as comes to you every good thing which the LORD your God has spoken to you has come to you, so shall the LORD bring on you every evil thing until He has destroyed you from off this good land which the LORD your God has given you,
when you transgress the covenant of the LORD your God, which He commanded you, and have gone and served other gods, and bowed yourselves to them, then shall the anger of the LORD be kindled against you, and you shall perish quickly from off the good land which He has given to you.