O Yahweh! thou hast searched me, and observed:
Thou, hast observed my downsitting and mine uprising, Thou hast given heed to my desire, from afar:
My path and my couch, hast thou examined, and, all my ways, thou well knowest.
Surely there hath not been a word on my tongue, [but] behold! O Yahweh, thou hast observed it on every side.
Behind and before, hast thou shut me in, and hast laid upon me thy hand:—
Knowledge, too wonderful, for me! high, I cannot attain to it!
Whither can I go from thy spirit? or whither, from thy face, can I flee?
If I ascend the heavens, there, thou art! If I spread out hades as my couch, behold thee!
If I mount the wings of the dawn, settle down in the region beyond the sea,
Even there, thy hand shall lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.
If I say, Surely, darkness, shall cover me! then, night, is light about me.
Even darkness, will not conceal from thee,—but, night, like day, will shine, So is the darkness, as the light!
For, thou, didst possess thyself of my reins, thou didst weave me together in the womb of my mother.
I thank thee, in that fearfully was my being distinguished, Wonderful are thy works, and, mine own soul, is observing [them] intently!
My substance was not hid from thee,—when I was made in secret, when I was skilfully figured in the lower parts of the earth.
Mine unfinished substance, thine eyes beheld, and, in thy book, all the parts thereof were written,—the days they should be fashioned! while yet there was not one among them.
To me, then, how precious have thy desires become, O GOD! How numerous, the heads of them!
I would recount them! Beyond the sands, they multiply, I rouse myself—and am still with thee.
Wilt thou not, O GOD, slay the lawless one? Therefore, ye men of bloodshed, depart from me!
For they speak of thee wickedly, Thy foes lift up [their hand] unto falsehood.
Do I not hate, them who hate thee, O Yahweh? And loathe, them who rise up against thee?
With completeness of hatred, I hate them, As enemies, have they become to me.
Search me, O GOD, and observe my heart, Try me, and observe my cares;
And see if there be any idol-way in me, and lead me in a way age-abiding.