AND certain persons coming down from Judea taught the brethren, That if ye are not circumcised according to the ordinances of Moses, ye cannot be saved.
There being therefore no small contention and dispute maintained by Paul and Barnabas against them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain others of their body, should go up to the apostles and presbyters at Jerusalem, for the decision of this question.
They therefore being sent on their way by the church, passed through Phoenicia and Samaria, giving a particular narrative of the conversion of the Gentiles: and they gave great joy to all the brethren.
Then when they arrived at Jerusalem, they were cordially received by the church, and the apostles and presbyters, and they related how great things God had done by them.
But up rose some of the pharisaical sect, who professed the faith, insisting, That it was necessary to circumcise them, and to enjoin them to observe the law of Moses.
Then the apostles and presbyters were assembled to consider of this matter.
When after much dispute, Peter arose, and said unto them,   Men and brethren, ye know that a considerable time ago God chose among us, by my mouth, that the Gentiles should hear the gospel-word, and believe.
And God, who is the discerner of the heart, bore them witness, giving them the Holy Ghost, even as to us;
and made no difference betwixt either us or them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Why then now tempt ye God, by imposing a yoke on the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
But we believe that we shall be saved by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the same way as they.
Then the whole multitude kept silence, and listened to Barnabas and Paul, relating how great signs and miracles God had wrought among the Gentiles by them.
Now when they ceased speaking, James replied, saying, Men and brethren, hear me:
Simon hath fully related, how at first God graciously looked upon the Gentiles, to take from them a people for his name.
And in accord with this are the words of the prophets; as it is written,
“After this will I return, and build again the tabernacle of David, that is fallen; and re-edify what hath been dug up from the foundation, and will set it upright again:
that the residue of men may diligently seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles, among whom my name is invoked, even among them, saith the Lord, who doth all these things.”
Known unto God from the beginning are all his works.
Therefore I am decided, that we give no unnecessary disquietude to those who from the heathen have turned to God:
but that we write to them, that they abstain from pollutions of idol sacrifices, and from whoredom, and from what is strangled, and from blood.
For Moses for ages past in every city hath those who preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath-day.
Then it was determined by the apostles and presbyters with the whole church, to send select men from themselves unto Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; Judas surnamed Barsabas, and Silas, leading men among the brethren;
writing a letter by their hand, in these words:   The apostles and presbyters and the brethren, to the brethren from among the Gentiles which are at Antioch, and in Syria, and Cilicia, greeting:
Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain persons who went out from us have disturbed you with discourses, unsettling your minds, insisting, that you should be circumcised, and observe the law: to whom we gave no such charge:
it hath seemed fit to us, assembled unanimously, to send unto you select men with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
men who have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, and they by word of mouth will tell you the same things.
For it hath seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us, to lay upon you no other burden except these things which are of absolute necessity;
that ye abstain from eating whatever is sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from whoredom: from which things carefully preserving yourselves, ye shall do well. Farewell.
They then being thus dispatched, came to Antioch: and assembling the multitude, they delivered the letter:
and when they had read it, they rejoiced in the consolation of it.
Then Judas and Silas, being also themselves prophets, exhorted the brethren, in many a discourse, and established them.
And having stayed their time, they were dismissed in peace from the brethren to the apostles.
However Silas thought proper to abide there.
Paul also and Barnabas abode at Antioch, teaching and preaching, with many others also, the word of the Lord.
Then after certain days said Paul to Barnabas, Let us now return and visit our brethren in every city among whom we have preached the word of the Lord, that we may see how they hold on.
Now Barnabas had resolved to take with him John, whose surname is Mark.
But Paul did not think him a fit person to take with them, who had withdrawn from them from Pamphylia, and no longer went with them to the service.
So there grew up a sudden quarrel, insomuch that they separated from each other: and Barnabas, taking Mark with him, sailed away to Cyprus:
but Paul selecting Silas, departed, being commended by the brethren to the favour of God.
And he passed through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.