NOW at that time Herod the king stretched forth his hand to treat cruelly certain persons belonging to the church.
And he slew James the brother of John with a sword.
And seeing how agreeable this was to the Jews, he proceeded to seize Peter also. (Then were the days of unleavened bread.)
Whom having apprehended, he put him in prison, delivering him to four quaternions of soldiers to keep guard over him; intending after the Passover to bring him forth to the people for execution.
So then Peter was kept in prison: but fervent prayer was offered up by the church to God for him.
Now when Herod was going to bring him forth, the same night was Peter fast asleep between the two soldiers, fastened to them with two chains: and the guards before the door kept the prison.
And, lo! an angel of the Lord stood there, and light glared through the apartment: then with a stroke on Peter’s side, he roused him up, and said, Arise quickly. And his chains fell from his hands.
And the angel said to him, Gird thyself up, and bind on thy sandals. And he did so. And he said unto him, Wrap thyself in thy mantle, and follow me.
And going out, he followed him; and knew not that it was a reality which was done by the angel; but he supposed he saw a vision.
So passing through the first ward and the second, they came to the iron door which leads into the city, which opened to them spontaneously: and being come out, they walked forward through one street; and immediately the angel departed from him.
And Peter coming to himself, said, Now I know assuredly, that the Lord hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me from the hand of Herod, and all the eager expectation of the people of the Jews.
And after considering with himself, he went to the house of Mary the mother of John, who is surnamed Mark; where many were thronged together, and praying.
Peter then knocking at the door of the gatetway, there came a damsel to ask who was there, named Rhoda.
And well knowing Peter’s voice, she opened not the door for joy; but running in, told that Peter was standing before the door.
But they said, Thou art raving. But she confidently persisted that it was so. Then they said, It is his angel.
But Peter continued knocking: and they opened the door and saw him, and were astonished.
Then beckoning with the hand that they should be silent, he informed them in what manner the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, Tell James and the brethren these things. And departing thence he went into another place.
Now when the day broke, there was no small stir among the soldiers, what could possibly become of Peter.
And Herod sought him out earnestly, but not being able to find him, after having examined the guards strictly, he commanded them to be executed. And going down from Jerusalem to Caesarea, took up his abode there.
Now Herod was fiercely bent on war against the Tyrians and Sidonians: but they presented themselves unanimously before him, and ingratiating themselves with Blastus who was over the king’s bedchamber, they begged for peace; because their country received all their supply of provisions from the king’s territories.
Then on a day appointed, Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, and seated on his throne, made an harangue unto them.
And the populace shouted, It is the voice of a god, and not a man.
But instantly the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not the glory to God: and being devoured with worms, he expired.
But the word of the Lord increased, and was widely diffused.
Then Barnabas and Saul departed from Jerusalem, having completed the distribution of the sum entrusted with them; and they took with them John, whose surname was Mark.