And the two agents came to Sodom at evening, and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. And Lot saw them, and rose up to meet them. And he bowed himself with his face to the earth,
and he said, Behold now, my lords, turn aside, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on your way. And they said, No, but we will abide in the street all night.
And he urged them greatly. And they turned in to him, and entered into his house. And he made a feast for them, and baked unleavened bread, and they ate.
But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, encompassed the house around, both young and old, all the people from every quarter.
And they called to Lot, and said to him, Where are the men who came in to thee this night? Bring them out to us, that we may know them.
And Lot went out to them to the door, and shut the door after him.
And he said, I pray you, my brothers, do not so wickedly.
Behold now, I have two daughters who have not known a man. Let me, I pray you, bring them out to you, and do ye to them as is good in your eyes. Only do nothing to these men, inasmuch as they have come under the shadow of my roof.
And they said, Stand back. And they said, This one fellow came in to sojourn, and he will be a judge. Now we will deal worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed greatly upon the man, even Lot, and drew near to break the door.
But the men put forth their hand, and brought Lot into the house to them, and shut to the door.
And they smote the men who were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves to find the door.
And the men said to Lot, Have thou here any besides? Son-in-law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whomever thou have in the city, bring them out of the place.
For we will destroy this place, because the cry of them has been great before Jehovah. And Jehovah has sent us to destroy it.
And Lot went out, and spoke to his sons-in-law, who married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place, for Jehovah will destroy the city. But he seemed to his sons-in-law as a man jesting.
And when the morning arose, then the agents hurried Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters who are here, lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.
But he lingered. And the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters, Jehovah being merciful to him, and they brought him forth, and set him outside the city.
And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life, do not look behind thee, neither stay thou in all the Plain. Escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.
And Lot said to them, Oh, not so, my lord.
Behold now, thy servant has found favor in thy sight, and thou have magnified thy loving kindness, which thou have shown to me in saving my life, and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest evil overtake me, and I die.
Behold now, this city is near to flee to, and it is a little one. Oh let me escape there (is it not a little one?), and my soul shall live.
And he said to him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow the city of which thou have spoken.
Hasten thee, escape there, for I cannot do anything till thou have come there. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.
The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot came to Zoar.
Then Jehovah rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from Jehovah out of heaven.
And he overthrew those cities, and all the Plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.
But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
And Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he had stood before Jehovah.
And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the Plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the land went up as the smoke of a furnace.
And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the Plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in which Lot dwelt.
And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his two daughters with him, for he feared to dwell in Zoar. And he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters.
And the firstborn said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man on the earth to come in to us after the manner of all the earth.
Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve seed by our father.
And they made their father drink wine that night. And the firstborn went in, and lay with her father. And he did not know when she lay down, nor when she arose.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said to the younger, Behold, I lay last night with my father. Let us make him drink wine this night also, and go thou in, and lie with him, that we may preserve seed by our father.
And they made their father drink wine that night also. And the younger arose, and lay with him. And he did not know when she lay down, nor when she arose.
Thus both the daughters of Lot were with child by their father.
And the firstborn bore a son, and called his name Moab. The same is the father of the Moabites to this day.
And the younger, she also bore a son, and called his name Ben-ammi. The same is the father of the sons of Ammon to this day.