And Joshua rose up early in the morning. And they moved from Shittim and came to the Jordan, he and all the sons of Israel. And they stayed there before they crossed over.
And it happened, at the end of three days, the officers passed into the midst of the camp.
And they commanded the people, saying, When you see the ark of the covenant of Jehovah your God, and the priests, and the Levites bearing it, then you shall move from your place and shall go after it.
Only, keep a distance between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure. You shall not come near it, so that you may know the way in which you are to go. For you have not crossed over this way yesterday and the day before.
And Joshua said to the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow Jehovah will do wonders among you.
And Joshua spoke to the priests, saying, Take up the ark of the covenant and go before the people. And they took up the ark of the covenant and went before the people.
And Jehovah said to Joshua, This day I will begin to make you great in the eyes of all Israel, so that they shall know that as I was with Moses, I am with you.
And you shall command the priests bearing the ark of the covenant, saying, When you come to the edge of the waters of the Jordan you shall stand still in the Jordan.
And Joshua said to the sons of Israel, Come near here and hear the words of Jehovah your God.
And Joshua said, By this you shall know that the living God is among you. And He shall certainly expel from before you the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hivites, and the Perizzites, and the Girgashites and the Amorites, and the Jebusites.
Behold, the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of all the earth shall pass over before you into the Jordan.
And now, take for yourselves twelve men out of the tribes of Israel one man for each tribe.
And it shall be, when the soles of the feet of the priests bearing the ark of Jehovah, Lord of all the earth, come to rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off, the waters which come down from above. And they shall stand in one heap.
And it happened, as the people moved from their tents to cross over the Jordan, and as the priests bore the ark of the covenant before the people,
and as those bearing the ark came into the Jordan, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were dipped in the edge of the waters (and the Jordan was full, over all its banks all the days of harvest),
that the waters stood still, those coming down from above rose up into a heap, very far above the city Adam, which is beside Zaretan; and those going down by the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, were completely cut off. And the people passed over opposite to Jericho.
And the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of Jehovah stood firm on dry ground in the middle of the Jordan. And all Israel crossed over on dry ground until all the nation had completely passed over the Jordan.