And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these saying, he said to his disciples,
Ye know that after two days the Passover comes, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.
Then the chief priests, and the scholars, and the elders of the people, assembled together to the courtyard of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas,
and they deliberated so that they might take Jesus by trickery, and kill him.
But they said, Not during the feast, lest an uproar develop among people.
Now when Jesus happened to be in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
a woman came to him having an alabaster cruse of precious ointment, and she poured it upon his head as he sat relaxing.
But when his disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste?
For this ointment could have been sold for much, and given to the poor.
But Jesus knowing it, he said to them, Why do ye cause troubles to the woman? For she has wrought a good work upon me.
For ye always have the poor with you, but ye do not always have me.
For by pouring this ointment upon my body, she did it for my burial.
Truly I say to you, wherever this good news may be proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman did will also be told for a memorial of her.
Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, having gone to the chief priests,
he said, What are ye willing to give me, and I will deliver him to you? And they weighed out to him thirty silver pieces.
And from that time he sought a favorable opportunity so that he might betray him.
Now on the first day of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Where do thou want that we should prepare for thee to eat the Passover?
And he said, Go into the city to a certain man, and say to him, The teacher says, My time is near. I keep the Passover with my disciples with thee.
And the disciples did as Jesus arranged for them, and they prepared the Passover.
Now having become evening, he was sitting with the twelve.
And as they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, that one of you will betray me.
And being exceedingly sorrowful, they began, each of them, to say to him, Is it I, Lord?
And having answered, he said, He who dipped his hand with me in the dish, this man will betray me.
The Son of man indeed goes as it is written about him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of man is betrayed! It were good for him if that man had not been born.
And Judas (the man who betrayed him) having answered, he said, Is it I, Rabbi? He says to him, Thou have said.
And as they were eating, Jesus, having taken bread, having expressed thanks, broke in pieces, and he gave to the disciples, and said, Take, eat, this is my body.
And having taken the cup, having expressed thanks, he gave to them, saying, All ye drink of it,
for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed on behalf of many for remission of sins.
But I say to you, that I will, no, not drink of this fruit of the grapevine henceforth until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.
And having sung a hymn, they went out to the mount of Olives.
Then Jesus says to them, All ye will be caused to stumble by me in this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.
But after I am raised up, I will go before you into Galilee.
But having answered, Peter said to him, If all men will be caused to stumble by thee, I will never be caused to stumble.
Jesus said to him, Truly I say to thee, that in this night, before a cock sounds, thou will deny me thrice.
Peter says to him, Even if I must die with thee, I will, no, not deny thee. And likewise also, said all the disciples.
Then Jesus comes with them to a place called Gethsemane, and he says to his disciples, Sit ye here until, after going, I may pray there.
And having taken Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and distressed.
Then Jesus says to them, My soul is deeply grieved, as far as of death. Remain ye here and watch with me.
And having gone forward a little, he fell on his face praying, and saying, My Father, if it be possible, may this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I want, but as thou.
And he comes to the disciples, and finds them sleeping. And he says to Peter, So ye could not watch with me one hour.
Watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. Truly, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Having gone again a second time, he prayed, saying, My Father, if it is not possible for this cup to pass from me, except I drink it, may thy will happen.
And having come again, he finds them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
And when he left them, having gone away again, he prayed a third time, saying again the same statement.
Then he comes to his disciples, and says to them, Sleep what remains, and take rest. Behold, the hour has come near, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Awake, we go. Behold, he who betrays me has come near.
And while he was still speaking, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and clubs from the chief priest and elders of the people.
Now the man who betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomever I may kiss is he. Seize him.
And straightaway having come to Jesus, he said, Hail, Rabbi, and kissed him much.
And Jesus said to him, Friend, why are thou here? Then having come, they threw their hands on Jesus, and seized him.
And behold, one of those with Jesus, having stretched out a hand, drew his sword, and when he struck the bondman of the high priest, he cut off his ear.
Then Jesus says to him, Return thy sword into its place, for all those who take a sword will die by a sword.
Or do thou think that I cannot now call my Father, and he will provide to me more than twelve legions of agents?
How then would the scriptures be fulfilled that it is necessary to happen this way?
In that hour Jesus said to the multitudes, Did ye come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to seize me? I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye did not seize me.
But all this has come to pass, so that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples fled, having forsook him.
And those who seized Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest where the scholars and the elders were assembled together.
But Peter followed him from afar, as far as the courtyard of the high priest. And having entered inside, he sat with the subordinates to see the outcome.
Now the chief priests and the elders and the whole council sought false testimony against Jesus, so that they might put him to death,
and they did not find it. And although many false witnesses came, they did not find it.
But finally two false witnesses having come, they said, This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it by three days.
And the high priest having stood up, he said to him, Answer thou nothing? What do these testify against thee?
But Jesus was silent. And having responded, the high priest said to him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us if thou are the Christ, the Son of God.
Jesus says to him, Thou have said. Nevertheless I say to you, Henceforth ye will see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming in the clouds of the sky.
Then the high priest tore his garments, saying, He has blasphemed. What further need have we of witnesses? Behold, now ye heard his blasphemy.
What does it seem to you? Having answered, they said, He is deserving of death.
Then they spat in his face and struck him with a fist. And some slapped him,
saying, Prophesy to us, thou Christ. Who is he who struck thee?
Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and one servant girl came to him, saying, Thou also were with Jesus the Galilean.
But he denied before them all, saying, I do not know what thou say.
And when he was gone out into the porch, another woman saw him, and says to them there, This man was also with Jesus the Nazarene.
And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man.
And after a little while those who stood, having approached, said to Peter, Surely thou also are of them, for thy accent even makes thee apparent.
Then he began to curse vehemently and to swear, I do not know the man. And straightaway a cock sounded.
And Peter remembered the saying that Jesus said to him, Before a cock sounds, thou will deny me thrice. And having gone outside, he wept bitterly.