And he brought me to the temple and measured the pillars, six cubits wide from here, and six cubits wide from there, the width of the tent.
And the door was ten cubits wide. And the sides of the door were five cubits from here and five cubits from there. And he measured its length, forty cubits, and twenty cubits wide.
And he went inside and measured the pillars of the door, two cubits. And the door was six cubits, and the width of the door, seven cubits.
And he measured its length, twenty cubits, and the width, twenty cubits, to the face of the temple. And he said to me, This is the Holy of Holies.
And he measured the wall of the house, six cubits, and the width of each side room was four cubits all around the house.
And the side rooms were a side room over a side room, three stories, and thirty times. And they entered the wall of the house for the side rooms all around, that they may be fastened. But they were not fastened in the wall of the house.
And there was a widening and a winding upwards and upwards for the side rooms, for the winding around of the house went upward and upward, all around the house. On account of this the width of the house went up, and so from the lowest it went up to the highest by the middle story .
I also saw the height of the house all around, the foundations of the side rooms were a full reed, six cubits by joining.
The width of the wall which was for the side room to the outside was five cubits, and that which was left between the side rooms that were of the house.
And between the rooms was the width of twenty cubits circling the house all around.
And the door of the side room was toward the open space, one door northward, and one door southward. And the width of the place of the open space was five cubits all around.
And the building that was before the separate area at the end of the way of the west was seventy cubits wide. And the wall of the building was five cubits wide all around; and its length, ninety cubits.
And he measured the house, a hundred cubits long. And the separate area and the building and its wall were a hundred cubits long.
And the width of the face of the house, and the separate area toward the east, a hundred cubits.
And he measured the length of the building to the face of the separate area which was on its rear; and its gallery from here and from there was a hundred cubits, also the inner temple, and the porches of the court,
the thresholds, and the latticed windows, and the galleries all around, their three stories opposite the threshold, were paneled with wood all around, and from the ground up to the windows, and the windows were covered
to that above the door, even to the inner house, and outside, and to all the wall all around inside and outside by measure.
And it was made with cherubs and palm trees, and a palm tree was between cherub and cherub. And two faces were to a cherub,
the face of a man toward the palm tree from here, and a young lion's face toward the palm tree from there. It was made to all the house all around.
From the ground to above the door, cherubs and palm trees were made, and on the wall of the temple.
The temple doorposts were squared, and the face of the sanctuary, the appearance as its appearance.
The altar of wood was three cubits high, and its length two cubits. And its corners, and its length, and its walls were wood. And he said to me, This is the table that is before Jehovah.
And two doors were to the temple and the sanctuary.
And two doors were to each of the doors, two turning doors, two for the one door, and two for the other door.
And cherubs and palm trees were made on them, on the doors of the temple, like those made on the walls; and thick wood was on the face of the porch outside.
And latticed windows and palm trees were from here and from there on the sides of the porch, and the side rooms of the house, and wooden canopies .