And straightway in the morning the princes of the priests having held a consultation with the elders and with the scribes and with the whole council, took Jesus away bound and delivered him to Pilate.
And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he, answering, said unto him, Thou sayest [it].
And the princes of the priests accused him of many [things].
And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how many things they accuse thee of.
But Jesus yet answered nothing, so that Pilate marvelled.
Now at [that] feast [it was customary that] he release unto them one prisoner, whoever they desired.
And there was [one] named Barabbas, [who lay] bound with those that had made insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the insurrection.
And the multitude crying aloud began to desire [him to do] as he had always done unto them.
And Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews?
For he knew that the princes of the priests had delivered him for envy.
But the princes of the priests moved the multitude that he should rather release Barabbas unto them.
And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye then that I shall do [unto him] whom ye call the King of the Jews?
And they cried out again, crucify him.
Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil has he done? And they cried out the more exceedingly, crucify him.
And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged [him], to be crucified.
And the soldiers led him away into the hall called Praetorium, and they call together the whole band.
And they clothed him with purple and platted a crown of thorns and put it about his [head]
and began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews!
And they smote him on the head with a reed and spit upon him and bowing [their] knees worshipped him.
And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him and put his own clothes on him and led him out to crucify him.
And they compel one Simon, a Cyrenian, who passed by coming out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his stake.
And they brought him unto the place of Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull.
And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh, but he received [it] not.
And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them, what every man should take.
And it was the third hour when they crucified him.
And the inscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And with him they crucified two thieves: the one on his right hand and the other on his left.
And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, And he was numbered with the transgressors.
And those that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads and saying, Ah, thou that would destroy the temple of God and build [it] in three days,
save thyself and come down from the stake.
Likewise also the princes of the priests mocking said among themselves with the scribes, He saved others; himself he cannot save.
Let the Christ, King of Israel, descend now from the stake that we may see and believe. And those that were crucified with him reviled him.
And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
And some of those that stood by, when they heard [it], said, Behold, he calls Elijah.
And one ran and filled a sponge full of vinegar and put [it] on a reed and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down.
But Jesus, giving a great cry, expired.
Then the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom.
And when the centurion, who stood in front of him, saw that he so cried out and expired, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God.
There were also [some] women looking on afar off, among whom was Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James the lesser and of Joses, and Salome
(who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him and ministered unto him), and many other women who came up with him unto Jerusalem.
And now when the evening was come, because it was the preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathaea, a noble senator, who also waited for the kingdom of God, came and went in boldly unto Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
And Pilate marvelled that he was already dead; and calling [unto him] the centurion, he asked him whether he was already dead.
And when he knew [it] of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
And he bought fine linen and took him down and wrapped him in the linen and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre.
And Mary Magdalene and Mary [the mother] of Joses beheld where he was laid.: