The Lord Jehovah made me see this: And, behold, He is forming locusts at the beginning of the coming up of the late grass; even behold, the late grass after the mowings of the king.
And it happened when it had made an end of eating the vegetation of the land, then I said, Lord Jehovah, I beg You, forgive. How can Jacob stand? For he is small.
Jehovah repented concerning this: It shall not be, says Jehovah.
The Lord Jehovah made me to see this: And, behold, the Lord Jehovah was calling to contend by fire. And it consumed the great deep, and it was devouring part of it.
Then I said, Lord Jehovah, I beg You, stop. How can Jacob stand? For he is small.
Jehovah repented concerning this: It shall not be, says the Lord Jehovah.
He made me see this: And, behold, the Lord was standing by the plumb line wall, and a plumb line in His hand.
And Jehovah said to me, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A plumb line. And the Lord said, Behold, I will set a plumb line in the midst of My people Israel. I will not again pass over him any more.
And the high places of Isaac shall be desolated, and the holy places of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.
Then Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, sent to Jeroboam, the king of Israel, saying, Amos has plotted against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to endure all his words.
For so Amos says: Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely go into exile out of his land.
And Amaziah said to Amos, Seer, go! Flee for yourself into the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there.
But do not again prophesy at Bethel any more, for it is the king's holy place, and it is the royal house.
Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah: I was not a prophet, nor was I a prophet's son, but I was a herdsman and a gatherer from sycamore trees.
And Jehovah took me from behind the flock, and Jehovah said to me, Go, prophesy to My people Israel.
Now, then, hear the word of Jehovah: You say, Do not prophesy against Israel, and do not drop words against the house of Isaac.
So Jehovah says this: Your wife shall be a harlot in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided by a line. And you shall die in a defiled land. And Israel shall surely go into exile from his land.