And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Son of man, prophesy and say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Howl, Woe is the day!
For the day is near, even the day of the LORD is near, a cloudy day. It shall be the time of the nations.
And the sword shall come on Egypt, and great pain shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt, and they shall take away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.
Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydia, and all the mixed people; and Chub, and the men of the land who are in covenant with them shall fall by the sword.
So says the LORD: Those who uphold Egypt shall also fall, and the pride of her power shall come down. From Migdol to Syene they shall fall in it by the sword, says the Lord Jehovah.
And they shall be ruined in the midst of the wasted lands, and her cities shall be in the midst of the wasted cities.
And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I have set a fire in Egypt and all her helpers shall be destroyed.
In that day messengers shall go out from Me in ships to terrify the confident Ethiopians, and anguish shall be on them, as in the day of Egypt; for lo, it is coming.
So says the Lord Jehovah: I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.
He and his people with them, the fearful of the nations, shall be brought to destroy the land. And they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.
And I will make the rivers dry, and sell the land into the hand of the wicked. And I will waste the land, and her fullness, by the hand of strangers. I the LORD have spoken.
So says the Lord Jehovah: I will also destroy the idols, and I will cause their images to cease out of Noph. And there shall no more be a ruler of the land in Egypt; and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.
And I will make Pathros a ruin, and will set fire in Zoan, and will do judgments in No.
And I will pour My fury on Sin, the strength of Egypt. And I will cut off the multitude of No.
And I will set fire in Egypt; Sin shall greatly anguish, and No shall be torn in pieces, and Noph shall have daily woes.
The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword; and these cities shall go into exile.
And at Tahpanhes also the day shall be held back, when I shatter the yokes of Egypt there. And the pride of her strength shall cease in her; as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into exile.
So I will do judgments in Egypt; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
And it happened in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt. And lo, it shall not lie bound up to give healing, to put a bandage to bind it, to make it strong to hold the sword.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong one and the broken one. And I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will scatter them through the lands.
And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put My sword in his hand. But I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of one who is stabbed.
But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall. And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall put My sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it on the land of Egypt.
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and scatter them among the lands. And they shall know that I am the LORD.