Now there were some men from the congregation that was in Antioch, prophets and teachers, including Barnabas, and Simeon called Niger, and Lucius the Cyrenian, and Manaen reared with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
And while they were serving the Lord, and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Separate to me now Barnabas and Saul for the work that I have called them.
Then, having fasted and prayed and laid hands on them, they sent them away.
Indeed therefore these men, having been sent forth by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed for Cyprus.
And after becoming in Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews, and they also had John for a helper.
And after going through the island as far as Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a Jewish false prophet, whose name was Bar-jesus,
who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. This man, having summoned Barnabas and Saul, sought to hear the word of God.
But Elymas the sorcerer (for so his name is translated) opposed them, seeking to deviate the proconsul from the faith.
But Saul (the man is also Paul) having been filled with the Holy Spirit, and having gazed on him,
said, O man full of all deceit and all recklessness, thou son of the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, will thou not cease distorting the straight ways of the Lord?
And now, behold, a hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou will be blind, not seeing the sun until a time. And immediately there fell on him gloom and darkness, and going around he sought hand-guides.
Then the proconsul, who saw that which happened, believed, being astonished at the doctrine of the Lord.
Now those around Paul, having launched from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia. But John, having departed from them, returned to Jerusalem.
And they, having passed through from Perga, arrived at Antioch of Pisidia, and after entering into the synagogue on the sabbath day, they sat down.
And after the reading of the law and the prophets the synagogue rulers sent to them, saying, Men, brothers, if there is among you a word of exhortation for the people, speak.
And Paul having stood up, and having motioned with the hand, he said, Men! Israelites and those who fear God, listen.
The God of this people Israel chose our fathers, and raised up the people during the sojourn in the land of Egypt. And with a lofty arm he brought them out of it.
And for about a forty-year time he was patient with them in the wilderness.
And having destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he allotted their land to them.
And after these things he gave them judges about four hundred and fifty years until Samuel the prophet.
And afterward they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
And having removed him, he raised up David for a king to them, also about whom he said, when he testified, I have found David the son of Jesse, a man according to my heart, who will do all my purposes.
From this man's seed according to promise, God brought salvation to Israel,
John having earlier proclaimed, before his coming presence, the immersion of repentance to Israel.
And as John was fulfilling his course, he said, Whom do ye suppose me to be? I am not, but behold, he comes after me of whom I am not worthy to loose the shoes of his feet.
Men, brothers, sons of the race of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to you the word of this salvation was sent.
For those who dwell in Jerusalem, and their rulers, not having known this and the voices of the prophets being read at every sabbath, they fulfilled, having condemned him.
And not having found one cause of death in him, they asked for Pilate to kill him.
And when they completed all the things written about him, having taken him down from the tree, they laid him in a tomb.
But God raised him from the dead,
who was seen for more days by those who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are witnesses of him to the people.
And we proclaim good news to you: the promise to the fathers, which happened because God has fulfilled this to us their children, having raised up Jesus,
as also it is written in the second psalm, Thou are my Son, today I have begotten thee.
And because he raised him from the dead, no longer going to return to decay, he has spoken this way: I will give to you the faithful holy things of David.
Therefore also he says in another, Thou will not give thy Holy Man to see decay.
For indeed David, who served his own generation in the plan of God, became asleep, and was added near his fathers, and saw decay.
But he whom God raised up saw no decay.
Be it known to you therefore, men, brothers, that through this man remission of sins is proclaimed to you.
And from all things of which ye could not be make righteous by the law of Moses, in this man every man who believes is made righteous.
Watch therefore, lest that which is spoken in the prophets should come upon you:
Behold, ye scoffers, and wonder, and perish, because I work a work in your days, which ye would, no, not believe, if some man should fully narrate it to you.
And as they went out from the synagogue of the Jews, the Gentiles urged that these sayings be spoken to them the next sabbath.
Now after the synagogue was dismissed, many of the Jews and of the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, while conversing, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.
And on the coming sabbath almost all the city was assembled to hear the word of God.
But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled of envy, and contradicted the things spoken by Paul, contradicting and slandering.
But having spoken boldly, Paul and Barnabas said, It was necessary for the word of God to be spoken first to you, but since ye thrust it away, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles.
For so the Lord has commanded us: I have placed thee for a light of Gentiles, for thee to be for salvation as far as the extremity of the earth.
And hearing this, the Gentiles were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed for eternal life believed.
And the word of the Lord was spread abroad through the whole region.
But the Jews incited the religious women, and the prominent women, and the principle men of the city, and raised up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas. And they threw them out of their boundaries.
But after shaking off the dust of their feet against them, they came to Iconium.
And the disciples were filled with joy and the Holy Spirit.