When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and immersing more disciples than John
(although Jesus himself did not immerse, but his disciples),
he left Judea, and departed into Galilee.
And it was necessary for him to pass through Samaria.
So he comes to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the place that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
And Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore being wearied from the journey, thus was sitting on the well. It was about the sixth hour.
A woman of Samaria comes to draw water. Jesus says to her, Give me to drink.
For his disciples had gone away into the city so that they might buy food.
The Samaritan woman therefore says to him, How do thou, being Jewish, ask to drink from me, being a Samaritan woman, for Jews do not associate with Samaritans?
Jesus answered and said to her, If thou had known the gift of God, and who it is who says to thee, Give me to drink, thou would have asked him, and he would have given thee living water.
The woman says to him, Sir, thou have not even a container, and the well is deep. From where then have thou the living water?
Are thou greater than our father Jacob who gave us the well, and drank from it himself, and his sons, and his livestock?
Jesus answered and said to her, Every man who drinks of this water will thirst again,
but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will, no, not thirst into the age. But the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life.
The woman says to him, Give me this water, sir, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw out.
Jesus says to her, Go, call thy husband, and come here.
The woman answered and said to him, I have no husband. Jesus says to her, Thou said correctly, I have no husband.
For thou have had five husbands, and he whom thou now have is not thy husband. This thou have said true.
The woman says to him, Sir, I perceive that thou are a prophet.
Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where it is necessary to worship.
Jesus says to her, Woman, believe me, that the hour is coming when neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem will ye worship the Father.
Ye worship what ye do not know. We worship what we know, because salvation is from the Jews.
But an hour comes, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for also the Father seeks such kind who worship him.
God is Spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.
The woman says to him, I know that Messiah comes, he who is called Christ. When that man comes he will declare all things to us.
Jesus says to her, I who speak to thee am the man.
And upon this his disciples came. And they marveled that he spoke with the woman, yet no man said, What seek thou? or, Why do thou speak with her?
The woman therefore left her water pot, and departed into the city, and says to the men,
Come, see a man who told me all, as many things as I did. Is not this the Christ?
They went out of the city, and came to him.
In the meanwhile the disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
But he said to them, I have food to eat that ye know not.
The disciples therefore said to each other, Did any man bring him to eat?
Jesus says to them, My food is that I do the will of him who sent me, and may finish his work.
Do ye not say, There are still four months and the harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and see the fields, that they are already white for harvest.
And he who reaps receives a wage and gathers fruit for eternal life, so that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
For in this the saying is true, One is who sows, and another who reaps.
I sent you to reap what ye have not labored. Others have labored, and ye have entered into their labor.
And many of the Samaritans from that city believed in him because of the word of the woman, who testified, He told me all, as many things as I did.
So when the Samaritans came to him they asked him to remain with them, and he remained there two days.
And many more believed because of his word.
And they said to the woman, We no longer believe because of thy speaking, for we have heard ourselves, and know that this really is the Savior of the world, the Christ.
And after the two days he departed from there and went into Galilee.
For Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own fatherland.
So when he came into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went to the feast.
Jesus therefore came again to Cana of Galilee where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum.
This man having heard that Jesus comes out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him and besought him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was going to die.
Jesus therefore said to him, Unless ye may see signs and wonders, ye will, no, not believe.
The nobleman says to him, Sir, come down before my child dies.
Jesus says to him, Go, thy son lives. And the man believed the word that Jesus said to him, and he departed.
And as he was now going down, his bondmen met him and reported, saying, Thy boy lives.
So he inquired of them the hour in which he fared well. And they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus said to him, Thy son lives. And he himself believed and his whole house.
This again is a second sign that Jesus did, having come out of Judea into Galilee.