And the heads of the fathers of the family of the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spoke before Moses, and before the rulers, the heads of the fathers of the sons of Israel.
And they said, Jehovah commanded my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the sons of Israel. And my lord was commanded by Jehovah to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters.
And if they be married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the sons of Israel, then their inheritance will be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, and will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong. So it will be taken away from the lot of our inheritance.
And when the jubilee of the sons of Israel shall be, then their inheritance will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong. So their inheritance will be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.
And Moses commanded the sons of Israel according to the word of Jehovah, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph speak right.
This is the thing which Jehovah commands concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them be married to whom they think best, only into the family of the tribe of their father shall they be married.
So no inheritance of the sons of Israel shall remove from tribe to tribe, for the sons of Israel shall cling each one to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
And every daughter, who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the sons of Israel, shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the sons of Israel may possess every man the inheritance of his fathers.
So no inheritance shall move from one tribe to another tribe, for the tribes of the sons of Israel shall cling each one to his own inheritance.
Even as Jehovah commanded Moses, so did the daughters of Zelophehad,
for Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophedad, were married to their father's brothers' sons.
They were married into the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father.
These are the commandments and the ordinances which Jehovah commanded by Moses to the sons of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.