My brothers, do not have the faith of our Lord Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons.
For if there comes a gold-fingered man in fancy clothing into your assembly, and if there also comes in a poor man in shabby clothing,
and if you have respect to him who has the fancy clothing and say to him, You sit here in a good place, and say to the poor, You stand there, or sit here under my footstool;
Did you not make a difference among yourselves and became judges with evil thoughts?
Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He has promised to those who love Him?
But you dishonored the poor one. Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment seats?
Do they not blaspheme that worthy Name by which you are called?
If you fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself," you do well.
But if you have respect to persons, you commit sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors.
For whoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all.
For He who said, "Do not commit adultery," also said, "Do not murder." But if you do not commit adultery, yet if you murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
So speak and do as those who shall be judged by the law of liberty.
For he who has shown no mercy shall have judgment without mercy, and mercy exults over judgment.
My brothers, what profit is it if a man says he has faith and does not have works? Can faith save him?
If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food,
and if one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, but you do not give them those things which are needful to the body, what good is it?
Even so, if it does not have works, faith is dead, being by itself.
But someone will say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
You believe that there is one God, you do well; even the demons believe and tremble.
But will you know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?
Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar?
Do you see how faith worked with his works, and by the works faith was made complete?
And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, "Abraham believed God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God."
You see then how a man is justified by works, and not by faith only.
And in the same way, was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way?
For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also.