The word that was to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah. It was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.
This Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and to all the residents of Jerusalem, saying,
From the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, even to this day, this twenty three years, the word of Jehovah has come to me, and I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking; but you have not listened.
And Jehovah has sent to you all His servants the prophets, rising early and sending, but you have not listened nor bowed your ear to hear,
saying, Now turn each one from his evil way and from the evil of your doings, and live on the land which Jehovah has given to you and to your fathers from forever even to forever.
And do not go after other gods to serve them and to worship them, and do not provoke Me to anger with the works of your hands; and I will do you no harm.
Yet you have not listened to Me, says Jehovah, so that you might provoke Me to anger with the works of your hands, for harm to you.
So Jehovah of hosts says this: Because you have not obeyed My words,
behold! I will send and take all the families of the north, says Jehovah, and Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, My servant; and I will bring them against this land, and against its inhabitants, and against all these nations all around. And I will completely destroy them, and make them a horror, and a hissing, and everlasting ruins.
And I will take from them the voice of rejoicing, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones, and the light of the lamp.
And this whole land shall be a waste and a horror; and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years.
And it shall be, when seventy years are fulfilled, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, and the land of the Chaldeans, for their iniquity, says Jehovah; and I will make it everlasting ruins.
And I will bring on that land all My words which I have spoken against it, all that is written in this book which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations.
For many nations and great kings will lay service on them, even they. And I will repay them according to their deeds, and according to the work of their own hands.
For so says Jehovah, the God of Israel, to me. Take the wine cup of this wrath from My hand and cause all the nations to whom I shall send you to drink it.
And they shall drink, and reel to and fro, and be maddened, because of the sword that I will send among them.
Then I took the cup from Jehovah's hand and made all the nations drink, those to whom Jehovah had sent me:
Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and their kings, and their rulers, to make them a ruin, a horror, a hissing, and a curse, as it is this day;
Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and his servants, and his rulers, and all his people;
and all the mixed people, and all the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the land of the Philistines, and Askelon, and Gaza, and Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod,
Edom, and Moab, and the sons of Ammon,
and all the kings of Tyre, and all the kings of Sidon, and the coastal kings beyond the sea,
Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and all who cut the corners of their beards ,
and all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mixed people who dwell in the desert,
and all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of Media,
and all the kings of the north, far and near, each one to his brother, and all the kingdoms of the world which are on the face of the earth; and the king of Sheshach shall drink after them.
So you shall say to them, So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel: Drink, and be drunk, and vomit, and fall, and do not rise up, because of the sword which I will send among you.
And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, So says Jehovah of Hosts, You shall certainly drink.
For, behold, I begin to bring evil on the city on which is called My name, and shall you be found entirely without guilt? You shall not be without guilt. For I will call for a sword on all the inhabitants of the earth, says Jehovah of Hosts.
And now you prophesy against them all these words, and say to them, Jehovah shall roar from on high and utter His voice from His holy habitation; He shall mightily roar over His dwelling place. He answers with a shout, like those who tread out the grapes , against all the inhabitants of the earth.
A roaring will go to the ends of the earth, for Jehovah has a controversy with the nations. He will enter into judgment with all flesh; He will give the wicked to the sword, says Jehovah.
So says Jehovah of Hosts, Behold, evil is going from nation to nation, and a great tempest shall be stirred up from the corners of the earth.
And the slain of Jehovah shall be at that day from one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth. They shall not be mourned, nor gathered, nor buried; they shall be as dung on the face of the earth.
Howl, O shepherds, and cry, and roll, O leaders of the flock! For the days of your slaughter and of your scatterings are fulfilled, and you shall fall like a desirable vessel.
And refuge has perished from the shepherds, and escape from the leaders of the flock.
The sound of the cry of the shepherds, and the howling from the leaders of the flock will be heard . For Jehovah is spoiling their pasture.
And the peaceful folds are devastated, because of the glow of the anger of Jehovah.
Like the young lion, He has left His den; for their land is a waste because of the glow of the oppressor, and because of His glowing anger