Manasseh [was] twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
And he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD, according to the abominations of the Gentiles, whom the LORD had cast out before the sons of Israel.
For he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah, his father, had broken down, and he raised up altars for the Baalim and made groves and worshipped all the host of the heavens and served them.
He also built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.
He likewise built altars for all the host of the heavens in the two courts of the house of the LORD.
And he caused his sons to pass through the fire in the valley of the sons of Hinnom; he also observed times, used enchantments, and was given over to witchcraft, consulting with spiritists and with diviners; he multiplied in doing much evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.
In addition to this, he set a graven image, the idol which he had made, in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen over all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name for ever;
neither will I any more remove the foot of Israel from out of the land which I have appointed for your fathers under the condition that they take, keep, and do all that I have commanded them, the whole law, the statutes and the rights by the hand of Moses.
So Manasseh deceived Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to do more evil than the Gentiles, whom the LORD had destroyed before the sons of Israel.
And the LORD spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they would not hearken.
Therefore, the LORD brought upon them the princes of the host of the king of Assyria who took Manasseh and bound him with fetters of brass and carried him to Babylon.
And when he was in affliction, he besought the LORD his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers,
and when he prayed unto him, he was heard; for he heard his supplication and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD [was] God.
Now after, this he built the wall outside the city of David, on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, and at the entrance of the fish gate, and fenced Ophel and raised it up to a very great height and put captains of the army in all the fenced cities of Judah.
Likewise, he took away the strange gods and the idol out of the house of the LORD and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem and cast [them] out of the city.
And he repaired the altar of the LORD and sacrificed upon it sacrifices of peace and of praise and commanded Judah to serve the LORD God of Israel.
Nevertheless, the people still sacrificed in the high places, [yet] unto the LORD their God only.
Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer unto his God and the words of the seers that spoke to him in the name of the LORD God of Israel, behold, they [are written] in the acts of the kings of Israel.
His prayer also and how he was heard, and all his sins, and his trespass, and the places upon which he built high places, and set up groves and graven images, before he humbled himself; behold, these things are written among the words of the seers.
So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house; and Amon, his son, reigned in his stead.
Amon [was] twenty-two years old when he began to reign and reigned two years in Jerusalem.
But he did [that which was] evil in the sight of the LORD, as Manasseh his father had done, for Amon sacrificed unto all the graven images which Manasseh, his father, had made, and served them.
But he never humbled himself before the LORD as Manasseh, his father, humbled himself; to the contrary Amon multiplied the guilt.
And his servants conspired against him and slew him in his own house.
But the people of the land slew all those that had conspired against King Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah, his son, king in his stead.: