Give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever.
Let Israel now say that his loving kindness endures forever.
Let the house of Aaron now say that his loving kindness endures forever.
Now let those who fear Jehovah say that his loving kindness endures forever.
Out of my distress, I called on Yah. Yah answered me with freedom.
Jehovah is on my side. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
Jehovah is on my side among those who help me. Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me.
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah, than to put confidence in man.
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah, than to put confidence in princes.
All the nations surrounded me, but in the name of Jehovah, I cut them off.
They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. In the name of Jehovah I indeed cut them off.
They surrounded me like bees. They are quenched like the burning thorns. In the name of Jehovah I cut them off.
You pushed me back hard, to make me fall, but Jehovah helped me.
Yah is my strength and song. He has become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous. "The right hand of Jehovah does valiantly.
The right hand of Jehovah is exalted! The right hand of Jehovah does valiantly!"
I will not die, but live, and declare the works of Yah.
Yah has punished me severely, but he has not given me over to death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will enter into them. I will give thanks to Yah.
This is the gate of Jehovah; the righteous will enter into it.
I will give thanks to you, for you have answered me, and have become my salvation.
The stone which the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.
This is Jehovah's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes.
This is the day that Jehovah has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it!
Save us now, we beg you, Jehovah! Jehovah, we beg you, send prosperity now.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of Jehovah! We have blessed you out of the house of Jehovah.
Jehovah is God, and he has given us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar.
You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will exalt you.
Oh give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever.