The king's heart is in the hand of Jehovah as streams of water. He turns it wherever he will.
Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but Jehovah weighs the hearts.
To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to Jehovah than sacrifice.
A high look, and a proud heart, even the lamp of the wicked, is sin.
The thoughts of a diligent man lead only to abundance, but everyone who is hasty, only to want.
The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vapor driven to and fro by those who seek death.
The violence of the wicked shall sweep them away, because they refuse to do justice.
The way of him who is laden with guilt is exceedingly crooked, but as for a pure man, his work is right.
It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a contentious woman in a wide house.
The soul of a wicked man desires evil. His neighbor finds no favor in his eyes.
When a scoffer is punished, a simple man is made wise, and when a wise man is instructed, he receives knowledge.
A righteous man considers the house of the wicked: the wicked are overthrown to ruin.
He who stops his ears at the cry of a poor man, he also shall cry, but shall not be heard.
A gift in secret pacifies anger, and a present in the bosom, strong wrath.
It is joy to the righteous to do justice, but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
The man who wanders out of the way of understanding shall rest in the assembly of the dead.
He who loves pleasure shall be a poor man. He who loves wine and oil shall not be rich.
A wicked man is a ransom for a righteous man, and the treacherous dealer for the upright.
It is better to dwell in a desert land, than with a contentious and fretful woman.
There is precious treasure and oil in the dwelling of a wise man, but a foolish man swallows it up.
He who follows after righteousness and kindness finds life, righteousness, and honor.
A wise man scales the city of the mighty, and brings down the strength of the confidence of it.
He who keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from troubles.
The proud and haughty man, scoffer is his name. He works in the arrogance of pride.
The desire of the sluggard kills him, for his hands refuse to labor.
There is he who covets greedily all the day long, but the righteous gives and does not withhold.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination. How much more when he brings it with a wicked mind!
A false witness shall perish, but the man who hears shall speak so as to endure.
A wicked man hardens his face, but as for an upright man, he establishes his ways.
There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against Jehovah.
The horse is prepared against the day of battle, but victory is from Jehovah.