Praise ye Jehovah. O give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good, for his loving kindness is forever.
Who can utter the mighty acts of Jehovah, or show forth all his praise?
Blessed are those who keep justice, and he who does righteousness at all times.
Remember me, O Jehovah, with the favor that thou bear to thy people. O visit me with thy salvation,
that I may see the prosperity of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.
We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. we have done wickedly.
Our fathers did not understand thy wonders in Egypt. They did not remember the multitude of thy loving kindnesses, but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea.
Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.
He also rebuked the Red Sea, and it was dried up. So he led them through the depths as through a wilderness.
And he saved them from the hand of him who hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
And the waters covered their adversaries; there was not one of them left.
Then they believed his words. They sang his praise.
They soon forgot his works. They did not wait for his counsel,
but lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and challenged God in the desert.
And he gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul.
They also envied Moses in the camp, and Aaron the sanctified of Jehovah.
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.
And a fire was kindled in their company. The flame burned up the wicked men.
They made a calf in Horeb, and worshiped a molten image.
Thus they changed their glory for the likeness of an ox that eats grass.
They forgot God their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt,
wondrous works in the land of Ham, and fearful things by the Red Sea.
Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy.
Yea, they despised the pleasant land. They did not believe his word,
but murmured in their tents, and did not hearken to the voice of Jehovah.
Therefore he swore to them, that he would overthrow them in the wilderness,
and that he would overthrow their seed among the nations, and scatter them in the lands.
They also joined themselves to Baal-peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.
Thus they provoked him to anger with their doings, and the plague broke in upon them.
Then Phinehas stood up, and executed judgment, and so the plague was stayed.
And that was reckoned to him for righteousness to all generations for evermore.
They also angered him at the waters of Meribah, so that it went ill with Moses because of them,
because they were rebellious against his spirit, and he spoke ill-advisedly with his lips.
They did not destroy the peoples, as Jehovah commanded them,
but mingled themselves with the nations, and learned their works,
and served their idols, which became a snare to them.
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons,
and shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. And the land was polluted with blood.
Thus they were defiled with their works, and played the harlot in their doings.
Therefore the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against his people, and he abhorred his inheritance.
And he gave them into the hand of the nations. And those who hated them ruled over them.
Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.
Many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their counsel, and were brought low in their iniquity.
Nevertheless he regarded their distress when he heard their cry.
And he remembered his covenant for them, and relented according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
He also made them to be pitied by all those who carried them captive.
Save us, O Jehovah our God, and gather us from among the nations, to give thanks to thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise.
Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting. And let all the people say, Truly. Praise ye Jehovah.