In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a word was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the word was true: a great war. And he understood the word, and had understanding of the vision.
In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three whole weeks.
I had no pleasing food, neither meat nor wine came into my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, until three whole weeks were fulfilled.
In the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, which is the Tigris,
I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen, around his waist a belt made of pure gold from Uphaz.
His body was like beryl, and his face like the appearance of lightning, and his eyes like flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like burnished bronze, and the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude.
I, Daniel, alone saw the vision; for the men who were with me did not see the vision; but a great trembling fell on them, and they fled to hide themselves.
So I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me; for my natural appearance grew deathly pale, and I retained no strength.
Yet I heard the sound of his words, and when I heard the sound of his words, then I fell into a deep sleep on my face, with my face toward the ground.
Behold, a hand touched me, which set me on my knees and on the palms of my hands.
He said to me, "Daniel, man greatly loved, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright; for I have now been sent to you." And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood trembling.
Then said he to me, "Do not be afraid, Daniel; for from the first day that you did set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. And I have come because of your words.
But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days; but, behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, because I was left there with the kings of Persia.
Now I have come to make you understand what shall happen to your people in the latter days; for the vision refers to future days."
And when he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face toward the ground, and could not speak.
And behold, one in the likeness of a human touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth and spoke and said to him who stood before me, "My lord, it is because of the vision anguish has come upon me, and I have no strength.
For how can this servant of my lord talk with my lord? As for me, no strength remains, and I am breathless."
Then one like the appearance of a man touched me again and strengthened me.
And he said, "Greatly loved man, do not be afraid, peace be to you; be strong, be strong!" When he spoke to me, I was strengthened, and said, "Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me."
Then he said, "Do you know why I have come to you? Now I will return to fight with the prince of Persia. When I go forth, behold, the prince of Greece shall come.
But I will tell you that which is inscribed in the Book of Truth. And there is no one who contends with me against them except Michael, your prince."