I say, then—Hath God cast off his people? Far be it! For, I also, am an Israelite,—of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin:
God hath not cast off his people, whom he fore approved. Or know ye not, in [the account of] Elijah what the scripture saith, when he intercedeth with God against Israel?
Lord! Thy prophets, have they slain, thine altars, have they overthrown, and, I, am left alone, and they are seeking my life!
But what saith unto him the response? I have left for myself seven thousand men, who, indeed, have not bowed a knee unto Baal.
Thus, then, in the present season also, a remnant, by way of an election of favour, hath come into being.
If, however, by favour, no longer of works; else, favour, no longer proveth to be favour!
What then? That which Israel seeketh after, the same, it hath not obtained:—the election, however, have obtained it, and, the rest, have been hardened;—
Even as it is written—God hath given unto them a spirit of stupor,—eyes not to see, and ears not to hear,—until this very day;
And, David, saith—Let their table be turned into a snare, and into gin, and into a trap, and into a recompense unto them,
Darkened be their eyes, not to see, and, their back, do thou continually bow down.
I say then—Did they stumble in order that they might fall? Far be it! But, by their fall, salvation [hath come] unto the nations, to the end of provoking them to jealousy.
If, moreover, their fall, is the riches of a world, and their loss, the riches of nations, how much rather their fullness?
Unto you, however, am I speaking,—you of the nations; inasmuch, indeed, then, as, I, am an apostle to the nations, my ministry, I glorify,
If by any means I may provoke to jealousy my own flesh, and save some from among them;—
For, if, the casting away of them, hath become the reconciling of a world, what shall, the taking of them in addition, be, but life from among the dead?
If, moreover, the first fruit [is] holy, the lump [shall be] also; and, if the root [is] holy, the branches [shall be] also.
If, however, some of the branches, have been broken out, and, thou, being a wild olive hast been grafted in among them, and hast become a joint partaker of the root of the fatness of the olive,
Be not boasting over the branches! Howbeit, if thou boast, it is not, thou, that bearest the root, but the root, thee!
Thou wilt say, then—Branches were broken out in order that, I, might he grafted in.
Well: by their want of faith, they have been broken out,—and, thou, by thy faith, dost stand!—Regard not lofty things, but be afraid;
For, if, God, hath not spared, the natural branches, neither, thee, will he spare!
See, then, the kindness and the severity of God: upon them who have fallen, severity,—but, upon thee, the kindness of God, if thou abide still in the kindness,—otherwise, thou also, shalt he cut out;
Whereas, they also, unless they abide still in their want of faith, shall be grafted in, for God is, able, again to engraft them!
For, if, thou, out of the naturally wild olive was cut out, and, beyond nature, hast been engrafted into the good olive, how much rather, shall these, the natural [branches] be engrafted into their own olive tree?
For I wish not, ye should be ignorant, brethren, of this sacred secret, lest within yourselves ye be presumptuous, that, a hardening in part, hath befallen Israel, until, the full measure of the nations, shall come in;
And, so, all Israel shall be saved: even as it is written—There shall have come out of Zion the Deliverer,—He will turn away ungodliness from Jacob;
And, this, for them, is the covenant from me, as soon as I take away their sins.
As touching the joyful-message, indeed, they are enemies for your sake, but, as touching the election, beloved for their father’s sake;
For, not to be regretted, are the gifts and the calling of God:—
For, just as, ye, at one time had not yielded unto God, and yet now have received mercy by their refusal to yield,
So, these also, have now refused to yield, by your own mercy, in order that, themselves also, should now become objects of mercy;
For God hath shut up all together, in a refusal to yield, in order that, upon all, he may bestow mercy.
Oh! the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable his judgments! and untraceable his ways!
For who hath come to know the mind of the Lord? Or who hath become his counselor?
Or who hath first given unto him, and it shall be recompensed to him again?
Because, of him, and through him, and unto him, are all things:—unto him, be the glory, unto the ages. Amen!