And he was saying to them: Verily, say unto you—There, are, certain of those here standing, who shall in nowise taste of death, until they see the kingdom of God, already come in power.
And, after six days, Jesus taketh with him Peter and James and John, and bringeth them up into a high mountain, apart, alone,—and he was transformed before them;
and his garments became brilliant, exceeding white, such as, no fuller on the earth, is able, so, to whiten.
And there appeared unto them Elijah, with Moses,—and they were conversing with Jesus.
And Peter, answering, saith unto Jesus—Rabbi! it is, delightful, for us to be, here,—let us therefore make three tents, for thee, one, and, for Moses, one, and, for Elijah, one;
for he knew not what he should answer, for, greatly affrighted, had they become.
And there came a cloud, overshadowing them, and there came a voice, out of the cloud,—This is, my Son, the Beloved, Be hearkening unto him.
And, suddenly looking round, no longer, saw they, anyone, with them, save, Jesus only.
And, as they were coming down out of the mountain, he charged them, that, unto no one, they should narrate what they had seen, save whenever the Son of Man, from among the dead should arise.
And, the word, they held fast unto themselves, discussing what was, the rising from among the dead.
And they began to question him, saying—The Scribes, say, that, Elijah, must needs come, first?
And, he, said unto them—Elijah, indeed, coming first, restoreth all things; and yet, how is it written, regarding the Son of Man, that, many things, he must suffer, and be set at nought?
But I say unto you—Elijah also, hath come, and they have done with him, whatsoever they pleased,—according as it is written regarding him.
And, coming unto the disciples, they saw a large multitude around them, and Scribes discussing with them.
And, straightway, all the multitude, seeing him, were greatly amazed, and, running near, began saluting him.
And he questioned them—What are ye discussing with them?
And one out of the multitude answered him—Teacher! I brought my son unto thee, having a dumb spirit;
and, wheresoever it seizeth him, it teareth him, and he foameth, and grindeth his teeth, and weareth himself out;—and I spake to thy disciples, that they should cast it out, and they could not.
But, he, answering, saith—O faithless generation! how long, shall I be with you? how long, shall I bear with you? Bring him unto me!
And they brought him unto him. And, seeing him, the spirit, straightway tare him,—and, falling upon the ground, he wallowed, foaming.
And he questioned his father—How long a time, is it, that, this, hath befallen him? and he said—From childhood;
and, many times, hath it cast him, both into fire, and into waters, that it might destroy him; but, if anything be possible to thee, help us, have compassion upon us.
And, Jesus, said unto him—As for this, If it be possible to thee, all things, are possible, to him who hath faith.
Straightway crying out, the father of the child was saying—I have faith! help my, want, of faith.
And Jesus, seeing that a multitude is running together, rebuked the impure spirit, saying unto it—Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I, give orders unto thee: Come forth out of him, and do not, any more, enter into him.
And, crying out, and greatly mangling him, it came forth; and he became as if dead, so that, the more part, were saying—He is dead!
But, Jesus, grasping his hand, raised him, and he stood up.
And, when he had gone into a house, his disciples, privately, were questioning him—Why, were, we, not able to cast it out?
And he said unto them—This kind, by nothing, can come out, save, by prayer.
And, from thence, going forth, they were journeying through Galilee,—and he was not wishing that any should get to know it;
for he was teaching his disciples and saying [unto them], The Son of Man, is to be delivered up, into the hands of men, and they will slay him,—and, being slain, after three days, will he arise.
But they were not understanding the declaration, and feared, to question, him.
And they came into Capernaum. And, happening to be, in the house, he was questioning them—What, in the way, were ye discussing?
And they were silent; for, with one another, they had discussed in the way, who should be greatest.
And, taking a seat, he addressed the twelve, and saith unto them—If anyone willeth to be, first, he shall be, least of all, and, minister of all.
And, taking a child, he set it in the midst of them,—and, folding it in his arms, said unto them—
Whosoever, unto, [one of] these children, shall give welcome, upon my name, unto me, giveth welcome; and, whosoever, unto me, giveth welcome, not, unto me, giveth welcome, but, unto him that sent me.
John said unto him—Teacher! we saw someone, in thy name, casting out demons,—and we forbade him, because he was not following with us.
But, Jesus, said—Do not forbid him! For, no one, is there, who shall do a work of power in my name, and have power, soon, to revile me;
For, whosoever is not, against, us, is, for, us;
For, whosoever shall give you to drink a cup of water, in name that, Christ’s, ye are, Verily! I say unto you, in nowise, shall lose his reward.
And, whosoever shall cause to stumble one of these little ones that believe, it is, seemly, for him, rather, if there is hung a large millstone about his neck, and he is cast into the sea.
And, if thy hand shall cause thee to stumble, cut it off,—it is, seemly, for thee, maimed, to enter into life, rather than having, the two hands, to depart into the gehenna, into the fire that is not quenched;

And, if thy foot be causing thee to stumble, cut it off,—it is, seemly, for thee, to enter into life, lame, rather than having, the two feet, to be cast into the gehenna;

And, if thine eye be causing thee to stumble, thrust it out,—it is, seemly, for thee, one-eye, to enter into the kingdom of God, rather than having, two eyes, to be cast into gehenna,
Where, their worm, dieth not, and, the fire, is not quenched,
For, everyone, with fire, shall be salted.
Salt is, good: but, if, salt, become, saltless, wherewith will ye, prepare, it? Have, within yourselves, salt, and be at peace, one with another.