AND I saw when the lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard one of the four living beings, saying, as with a voice of thunder, Come, and see.
And I looked, and lo! a white horse; and he who sat on it held a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer.
And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living being say, Come and see.
And there went out another horse flame-coloured; and to him who sat thereon there was power given to take peace from the earth, and that men should kill each other; and there was given to him a great sword.
And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living being say, Come and see. And I saw, and lo! a black horse; and he that sat upon it had a pair of scales in his hand.
And I heard a voice from amidst the four living beings saying, A choenix of wheat for a denarius, and three choenixs of barley for a denarius; yet to the oil and the wine do no injury.
And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living being saying, Come and see.
And I looked, and lo! a pale coloured horse, and one sat on it, whose name was Death, and the grave followed after him: and power was given to them to kill the fourth part of the earth with the sword, and with famine, and with death, and with the wild beasts of the earth.
And when he opened the fifth seal I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they maintained.
And they cried with a loud voice, How long will it be, O sovereign, the holy one and the true, ere thou judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?
And to each of them were given white robes, and it was told them that they should wait yet a little longer space, until the number of their fellow-servants and their brethren, who should be slain as well as they, should be completed.
And I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and lo! there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood;
and the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as the fig-tree sheddeth her early ripe figs when shaken by a mighty wind:
and the heaven was removed away as a volume rolled up and every mountain and island were removed out of their places:
and the kings of the earth, and the grandees, and the rich, and the military commanders, and the men in power, and every slave, and every free man, hid themselves in the caves, and in the rocks of the mountains;
and said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:
for the great day of his wrath is come, and who is able to stand?