And it came to pass, on the third day, that Esther put on her royal apparel, and stood in the inner court of the house of the king, over against the house of the king,—and, the king, was sitting upon his royal seat, in the royal house, over against the opening of the house.
And it came to pass, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, that she obtained favour in his eyes,—and the king held out to Esther, the golden sceptre which was in his hand, so Esther drew near, and touched the top of the sceptre.
Then said the king unto her, What aileth thee, Queen Esther? and what is thy request? Unto the half of the kingdom, shall it be given thee.
Then said Esther, If, unto the king, it seem good, let the king with Haman come in this day, unto the banquet which I have prepared for him.
And the king said, Hasten ye Haman, to perform the word of Esther. So the king with Haman came in, unto the banquet which Esther had prepared,
Then said the king unto Esther, during the banquet of wine, What is thy petition, that it may be granted thee?—and what is thy request—unto the half of the kingdom—that it may be performed?
Then answered Esther, and said,—As touching my petition and my request,
If I have found favour in the eyes of the king, and if, unto the king, it seem good, to grant my petition, and to perform my request, let the king with Haman come in unto the banquet which I will prepare for them, and, to-morrow, I will do according to the word of the king.
Then went Haman forth on that day, joyful and of a merry heart,—but, when Haman saw Mordecai in the gate of the king, that he rose not up nor moved because of him, then was Haman filled with wrath against Mordecai.
Nevertheless Haman restrained himself, and came into his own house,—and sent and brought in his friends, and Zeresh his wife;
and Haman recounted unto them the glory of his riches, and the multitude of his children,—and all the things wherein the king had promoted him to power, and how he had advanced him, above the rulers and the servants of the king.
And Haman said, Moreover Esther the queen did bring in no one with the king into the banquet which she had prepared, saving myself,—yea moreover, even for to-morrow, I, am invited unto her, with the king.
Yet, all this, sufficeth me not,—so long as, I, see Mordecai the Jew, sitting in the gate of the king.
Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let them make ready a gallows, of the height of fifty cubits, and, in the morning, speak thou unto the king, that they hang Mordecai thereon, then go with the king into the banquet joyfully. And the thing seemed good before Haman, and he made ready the gallows.