And the apostles and brothers who were in Judea heard that the nations had also received the Word of God.
And when Peter had come up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision contended with him,
saying, You went in to uncircumcised men and ate with them.
But Peter related the matter from the beginning and explained it by order to them, saying,
I was in the city of Joppa praying. And in an ecstasy I saw a vision, a certain vessel like a sheet coming down, let down from the sky by four corners. And it came even to me.
When I had fastened my eyes on it, I looked and saw four-footed animals of the earth, and wild beasts, and reptiles, and birds of the heaven.
And I heard a voice saying to me, Arise, Peter! Kill and eat!
But I said, Not so, Lord, for nothing common or unclean has at any time entered into my mouth.
But the voice answered me again from the heaven, What God has made clean, you do not call common.
And this was done three times, and all were drawn up again into the heaven.
And behold, immediately three men stood at house in which I was, sent from Caesarea to me.
And the Spirit told me to go with them, not discriminating. And these six brothers went with me, and we entered the man's house.
And he declared to us how he had seen an angel in his house, who stood and said to him, Send men to Joppa and call for Simon whose last name is Peter,
who will tell you words by which you and all your house shall be saved.
And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, as on us at the beginning.
And I remembered the Word of the Lord, how He said, John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.
Therefore because God gave them the same gift to us who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to be able to prevent God?
When they heard these things, they were silent and glorified God, saying, Then God has also granted repentance to life to the nations.
Then, indeed, they who were scattered abroad by the persecution that rose about Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, preaching the Word to no one except the Jews.
And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene; who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord.
And the Word was heard in the ears of the church in Jerusalem. And they sent out Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch;
who was glad when he had come and had seen the grace of God. And he exhorted all with purpose of heart to remain near to the Lord.
For he was a good man and full of the Holy Spirit and faith. And many people were added to the Lord.
And Barnabas went out to Tarsus to seek Saul.
And finding him, it was a whole year they were gathered to them in the church and taught a considerable crowd. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
And in these days prophets from Jerusalem came to Antioch.
And one of them named Agabus stood up and signified by the Spirit that there should be great famine over the world (which also happened in the days of Claudius Caesar).
And the disciples, as any were prospered, determined each of them to send for ministry to those brothers who lived in Judea,
which they also did, sending to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.