Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, to the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in all Achaia.
Grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort,
He comforting us in all our trouble, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in every trouble, through the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also abounds by Christ.
And if we are troubled, it is for your consolation and salvation, being worked out in the endurance of the same sufferings which we also suffer; if we are comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation.
And our hope of you is certain, knowing that as you are partakers of the sufferings, so also of the consolation.
For, brothers, we would not have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength; so much so that we despaired even of life.
But we had the sentence of death in ourselves, so that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead;
who delivered us from so great a death, and does deliver; in whom we trust that He will yet deliver us,
with you also helping together by prayer for us, so that the gracious gift by many persons be the cause of thanksgiving through many for us.
For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity; not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God; we have had our conduct in the world, and more abundantly toward you.
For we write no other things to you than what you read or recognize, and I trust you shall recognize them even to the end,
even as you have recognized us in part, that we are your rejoicing, even as you also are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus.
And in this confidence I intended to come to you before, so that you might have a second benefit,
and to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia to you, and to be brought on my way toward Judea by you.
Then purposing this, did I indeed use lightness? Or the things that I purpose, do I purpose them according to the flesh, so that with me there should be yes, yes, and no, no?
But as God is true, our word toward you was not yes and no.
For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us; by me and Silas and Timothy; was not yes and no, but in Him was, yes!
For all the promises of God in Him are yes, and in Him Amen, to the glory of God by us.
But He confirming us and anointing us with you in Christ is God.
And He has sealed us and having given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
And I call God as witness to my soul that in order to spare you I have not yet come to Corinth.
Not that we have dominion over your faith, but we are helpers of your joy; for by faith you stand.