Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy my brother,—unto Philemon the beloved, and a fellow worker of ours,
And unto Apphia our sister. And unto Archippus our fellow-soldier, and unto the assembly which meeteth, at thy house:
Favour unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and Lord Jesus Christ.
I am giving thanks unto my God—always, making mention, of thee, in my prayers,
Hearing of thy love, and of the faith which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus and towards all the saints,—
To the end that, the fellowship of thy faith, may become, energetic, by a personal knowledge of every good thing that is in us towards Christ;
For, much joy, have I had, and encouragement, by occasion of thy love, in that, the tender affections of the saints, have had rest given them by thee, brother.
Wherefore, though I have, much, freedom of speech, in Christ, to be enjoining upon thee that which is befitting,
Yet, for loves sake, I rather exhort,—being, such a one, as Paul the aged, now, also, even a prisoner of Christ Jesus,—
I exhort thee concerning my own child, whom I have begotten in my bonds,—Onesimus:
Him who, at one time, was, unto thee, unserviceable, but, now, unto thee and unto me, serviceable;
Whom I have sent back unto thee—him, that is, my own, tender affections!—
Whom, I, was minded, with myself, to detain, that, in thy behalf, unto me, he might be ministering in the bonds of the joyful message;
But, apart from thy mind, I wished to do, nothing, that, not as by necessity, thy goodness should be, but, by choice.
For, peradventure, for this cause, was he separated for an hour, that, as an age-abiding possession, thou mightest have him back,—
No longer as a servant, but above a servant—a brother beloved, very greatly to me, but, how much rather, to thee—both in the flesh and in the Lord!
If, therefore, thou holdest me as one in thy fellowship, take him unto thee, as myself;
And, if he hath wronged thee at all or oweth thee aught, the same, unto me, do thou reckon:—
I, Paul, have written [it] with, my own, hand,—I, will repay [it] ; that I may not tell thee—that, thyself, unto me, thou still owest.
Yea! brother, I, would, from thee, have help, in the Lord: give rest unto my tender affections in Christ.
Confident of thine obedience, I have written unto thee, knowing that, even beyond what I say, thou wilt do:—
At the same time, moreover, be also getting ready for me, a lodging; for I am hoping that, through your prayers, I shall be granted as a favour unto you.
There salute thee—Epaphras my fellow-captive in Christ Jesus,
Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke,—my fellow-workers.
The favour of the Lord Jesus Christ, be with your spirit.