And her mother-in-law Naomi said to her, My daughter, do I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you?
And now, is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose young women you have been? Behold, he is winnowing the threshing floor of barley tonight.
And you shall bathe, and anoint yourself, and put your garments on you, and go down to the threshing floor. Do not let yourself be known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.
And it shall be, when he lies down, you shall note the place where he lies down, and shall go in and uncover his feet, and lie down And he will tell you that which you are to do.
And she said to her, All that you say, I will do.
And she went down to the threshing floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law commanded her.
And Boaz ate and drank, and his heart felt good. And he went to lie down at the end of the heap. And she came secretly and uncovered his feet, and lay down.
And it happened in the middle of the night, that the man trembled and turned himself. And, behold, a woman was lying at his feet!
And he said, Who are you? And she said, I am your handmaid Ruth, and you shall spread your skirt over your handmaid, for you are a kinsman redeemer.
And he said, Blessed be you of Jehovah, my daughter. You have dealt more kindly at the latter end than at the beginning, not to go after the young men, either poor or rich.
And now, my daughter, do not fear. All that you say I will do to you, for all the gate of my people know that you are an able woman.
And now, surely it is true that I am a kinsman redeemer. But there also is a redeemer nearer than I.
Stay tonight, and it shall be in the morning, if he will redeem you, well; he will redeem. And if he does not delight to redeem you, as Jehovah lives, then I will redeem you. Lie down until the morning.
And she lay at his feet until the morning, and rose up before one could discern another. And he said, Let it not be known that a woman has come to the grain floor.
And he said, Give me the covering which is on you, and hold on to it. And she kept hold on it, and he measured six measures of barley, and lay it on her. And she went in to the city.
And she came in to her mother-in-law. And she said, Who are you, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done to her.
And she said, He gave me these six measures of barley, for he said You shall not go empty to your mother-in-law.
And she said, Sit, my daughter, until you shall know how the matter falls, for the man shall not rest until he has finished the matter today.