Not, many teachers, become ye, my brethren, knowing that, a severer sentence, shall ye receive;
For, oft, are we stumbling, one and all: If anyone, in word, doth not stumble, the same, is a mature man, able to curb even the whole body.
Now, if, the horses bits, into their mouths, we thrust, to the end they may be yielding to us, their whole body also, do we turn about.
Lo! the ships also, large as they are, and, by rough winds, driven along, are turned about by a very small helm, whithersoever the impulse of the steersman inclineth.
So, also, the tongue, is, a little member, and yet, of great things, maketh boast. Lo! how small a fire, kindleth, how great a forest;
And, the tongue, is a fire,—[as], the world of unrighteousness, the tongue, becometh fixed among our members, that which defileth the whole body and setteth on fire the wheel of our natural life, and is set on fire, by gehenna!
For, every nature—both of wild beasts and of birds, both of reptiles and of things in the sea, is to be tamed, and hath been tamed, by the human nature;
But, the tongue, none of mankind can, tame,—A restless mischief! Full of deadly poison
Therewith, are we blessing our Lord and Father, and, therewith, we are cursing the men who, after the likeness of God, have been brought into being!
Out of the same mouth, come forth blessing and cursing! Not meet, my brethren, for, these things, thus, to be coming to pass!
Doth, the fountain, out of the same opening, teem forth the sweet and the bitter?
Is it possible, my brethren, for, a fig-tree, to produce, olives, or, a vine, figs? Neither can, salt, water yield, sweet.
Who is wise and well-instructed among you? Let him show, out of his comely behaviour, his works, in meekness of wisdom.
But, if, bitter jealousy, ye have, and rivalry, in your hearts; be not boasting and showing yourselves false against the truth!
This wisdom is not one, from above, coming down, but is earthly, born of the soul, demoniacal!
For, where jealousy and rivalry are, there, are anarchy and every ignoble deed.
But, the wisdom from above, is—first pure, then peaceable, reasonable, easy to be entreated, fraught with mercy and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy.
And, in harvest of righteousness, with peace, is sown by them that make peace.