These are the words of the covenant which Jehovah commanded Moses to make with the sons of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which he made with them in Horeb.
And Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, Ye have seen all that Jehovah did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land,
the great trials which thine eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders,
yet Jehovah has not given you a heart to know, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, to this day.
And I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not grown old upon you, and thy shoe has not grown old upon thy foot.
Ye have not eaten bread, neither have ye drunk wine or strong drink, that ye may know that I am Jehovah your God.
And when ye came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, came out against us to battle, and we smote them.
And we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of the Manassites.
Keep therefore the words of this covenant, and do them, that ye may prosper in all that ye do.
Ye stand this day all of you before Jehovah your God-your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel,
your little ones, your wives, and thy sojourner who is in the midst of thy camps, from the hewer of thy wood to the drawer of thy water-
that thou may enter into the covenant of Jehovah thy God, and into his oath, which Jehovah thy God makes with thee this day,
that he may establish thee this day to himself for a people, and that he may be to thee a God, as he spoke to thee, and as he swore to thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath,
but with him who stands here with us this day before Jehovah our God, and also with him who is not here with us this day
(for ye know how we dwelt in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations through which ye passed,
and ye have seen their abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them).
Lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turns away this day from Jehovah our God, to go to serve the gods of those nations. Lest there should be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood,
and it comes to pass, when he hears the words of this curse, that he blesses himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to destroy the moist with the dry.
Jehovah will not pardon him, but then the anger of Jehovah and his jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the curse that is written in this book shall lie upon him, and Jehovah will blot out his name from under heaven.
And Jehovah will set him apart to evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that is written in this book of the law.
And the generation to come, your sons who shall rise up after you, and the foreigner who shall come from a far land, shall say, when they see the calamities of that land, and the sicknesses with which Jehovah has made it sick.
The whole land of it is brimstone, and salt, a burning. It is not sown, nor bears, nor any grass grows in it, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which Jehovah overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath,
even all the nations shall say, Why has Jehovah done thus to this land? What is the meaning of the heat of this great anger?
Then men shall say, Because they forsook the covenant of Jehovah, the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of the land of Egypt,
and went and served other gods, and worshiped them, gods that they knew not, and that he had not given to them.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against this land, to bring upon it all the curse that is written in this book.
And Jehovah rooted them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, as at this day.
The secret things belong to Jehovah our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our sons forever, that we may do all the words of this law.