In the seventh month, in the twenty-first of the month, the word of the LORD came by the prophet Haggai, saying,
Now speak to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,
Who is left among you who saw this house in her first glory? And how do you see it now? When compared to it, is it not as nothing in your eyes?
Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, says the LORD. And be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong all people of the land, says the LORD, and work; for I am with you, says the LORD of hosts
with the Word who cut a covenant with you when you came out of Egypt, and My Spirit remains among you. Do not fear.
For so says the LORD of hosts: Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land.
And I will shake all the nations; and the desire of all nations shall come; and I will fill this house with glory, says the LORD of hosts.
The silver is Mine, and the gold is Mine, says the LORD of hosts.
The glory of this latter house shall be greater than that of the former, says the LORD of hosts. And in this place I will give peace, says the LORD of hosts.
In the twenty-fourth of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came by Haggai the prophet, saying,
So says the LORD of hosts: Now ask the priests the law, saying,
If one carries holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and touches his skirt to bread, or boiled food, or wine, or oil, or any food, will it become holy? And the priests answered and said, No.
Then Haggai said, If one unclean of body touches these, is it unclean? And the priests answered and said, It is unclean.
And Haggai answered and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before Me, says the LORD. And so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean.
And now, I ask you, set your heart on it; from this day and onward, before the placing of a stone on a stone in the temple of the LORD;
from then onward, one came to a heap of twenty measures, and there were but ten; one came to the wine vat to draw off fifty from the winepress, and there were but twenty.
I struck you with blight and with mildew, and with hail, in all the labors of your hands; yet you did not turn to Me, says the LORD.
Now set your heart from this day and forward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, from the day that the LORD's temple was founded. Set your heart:
Is the seed still in the barn? Yea, as yet the vine, and the fig tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive tree, have not brought forth. From this day I will bless you.
And a second time the word of the LORD came to Haggai in the twenty-fourth of the month, saying,
Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth.
And I will overthrow the throne of the kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations. And I will overthrow the chariots and their riders. And the horses and their riders shall come down, each one by the sword of his brother.
In that day, says the LORD of hosts, I will take you, O Zerubbabel, My servant, the son of Shealtiel, says the LORD, and will make you like a signet; for I have chosen you, says the LORD of hosts.