We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves.
Let every one of us please his neighbour for his good to edification.
For even the Messiah pleased not himself; but, as it is written, The reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me.
For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope.
Now the Elohim of patience and consolation grant you to be likeminded one toward another according to Messiah Yahushua:
That ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify יהוה, even the Father of our Saviour Yahushua the Messiah.
Wherefore receive ye one another, as the Messiah also received us to the glory of יהוה.
Now I say that Yahushua the Messiah was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of יהוה, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:
And that the Gentiles might glorify יהוה for his mercy; as it is written, For this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles, and sing unto thy name.
And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.
And again, Praise יהוה, all ye Gentiles; and laud him, all ye people.
And again, Isaiah saith, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles; in him shall the Gentiles trust.
Now the Elohim of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Spirit.
And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another.
Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the favour that is given to me of יהוה,
That I should be the minister of Yahushua the Messiah to the Gentiles, ministering the glad tidings of יהוה, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
I have therefore whereof I may glory through Yahushua the Messiah in those things which pertain to יהוה.
For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which the Messiah hath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient, by word and deed,
Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of יהוה; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the glad tidings of the Messiah.
Yea, so have I strived to preach the glad tidings, not where the Messiah was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation:
But as it is written, To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see: and they that have not heard shall understand.
For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you.
But now having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you;
Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you: for I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first I be somewhat filled with your company.
But now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints.
For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem.
It hath pleased them verily; and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things.
When therefore I have performed this, and have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain.
And I am sure that, when I come unto you, I shall come in the fulness of the blessing of the glad tidings of the Messiah.
Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Master Yahushua the Messiah's sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in your prayers to יהוה for me;
That I may be delivered from them that do not believe in Judaea; and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints;
That I may come unto you with joy by the will of יהוה, and may with you be refreshed.
Now the Elohim of peace be with you all.