Then spake Yahweh unto Moses in the desert of Sinai in the tent of meeting,—on the first of the second month in the second year by their coming forth out of the land of Egypt saying:
Reckon ye up the sum of all the assembly of the sons of Israel, by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names, every male, by their polls;
from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war in Israel,—ye shall number them by their hosts, thou and Aaron;
and with you, shall be one man for each tribe,—each man, head of his ancestral house, shall be.
These, then, are the names of the men who shall stand with you,—Of Reuben, Elizur, son of Shedeur;
Of Simeon, Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai;
Of Judah, Nahshon, son of Amminadab;
Of Issachar, Nethanel, son of Zuar;
Of Zebulun, Eliab, son of Helon;
Of the sons of Joseph,—Of Ephraim, Elishama son of Ammihud; Of Manasseh, Gamaliel, son of Pedahzur;
Of Benjamin, Abidan son of Gideoni;
Of Dan, Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai;
Of Asher, Pagiel, son of Ochran;
Of Gad, Eliasaph son of Deuel;
Of Naphtali, Ahira son of Enan.
These, are they who had been summoned by the assembly, being princes of the tribes of their fathers,—heads of the thousands of Israel.
So then Moses and Aaron took these men, who were distinguished by name;
all the assembly also, called they together on the first of the second month,—and they declared their pedigree according to their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names from twenty years old and upwards by their polls.
As Yahweh commanded Moses, so he mustered them in the desert of Sinai.
And they were [as followeth] —The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, in their pedigrees—by their families, by their ancestral houses, in the counting of names, by their polls, every male, from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Reuben, forty-six thousand and five hundred.
Of the sons of Simeon, in their pedigrees by their families by their ancestral houses,—such as were numbered of him, in the counting of names by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Simeon, fifty-nine thousand and three hundred.
Of the sons of Gad, in their pedigrees—by their families by their ancestral houses, in the counting of names from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war:
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Gad, forty-five thousand and six hundred and fifty.
Of the sons of Judah, in their pedigrees by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names, from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Judah, seventy-four thousand and six hundred.
Of the sons of Issachar, in their pedigrees—by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names, from twenty year old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Issachar, fifty-four thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Zebulun, in their pedigrees—by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Zebulun, fifty-seven thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Joseph—Of the sons of Ephraim, in their pedigrees—by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names, from twenty years old, and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them, as belonging to the tribe of Ephraim, forty thousand and five hundred.
Of the sons of Manasseh, in their pedigrees—by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Manasseh, thirty-two thousand, and two hundred.
Of the sons of Benjamin, in their pedigrees by their families, by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names, from twenty years old, and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Benjamin, thirty-five thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Dan, in their pedigrees by their families by their ancestral houses, in the counting of names from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Dan, sixty-two thousand, and seven hundred.
Of the sons of Asher, in their pedigrees—by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names, from twenty years old, and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them as belonging to the tribe of Asher, forty-one thousand, and five hundred.
The sons of Naphtali, in their pedigrees by their families by their ancestral houses,—in the counting of names, from twenty years old, and upwards, every one able to go forth to war;
such as were numbered of them, as belonging to the tribe of Naphtali, fifty-three thousand, and four hundred.
These, are they who were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron and the twelve princes of Israel did number, the princes acting each one for his ancestral house.
So then all they who were numbered of the sons of Israel by their ancestral houses, from twenty years old and upwards, every one able to go forth to war in Israel;
so then all they who were numbered were six hundred and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites by the tribe of their fathers were not numbered in their midst.
For Yahweh spake unto Moses saying:
Only the tribe of Levi, shalt thou not number, nor the sum of them, shalt thou reckon up, in the midst of the sons of Israel.
But do, thou thyself, put the Levites in charge over the habitation of the testimony, and over all the furniture thereof and over all that pertaineth thereto, they, shall bear the habitation, and all the furniture thereof, and they, shall attend thereupon; and, round about the habitation, shall they encamp.
And, when the habitation is to set forward, the Levites shall take it down, and when the habitation is to be pitched, the Levites, shall set it up, but the stranger that draweth near, shall be put to death.
So then the sons of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man, near his own camp, and, every man, near his own standard, by their hosts;
but the Levites, shall pitch their tents round about the habitation of the testimony, that there be no wrath upon the assembly of the sons of Israel,—so shall the Levites keep the watch of the habitation of the testimony.
Thus did the sons of Israel,—according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses, so, did they.