And HaShem spoke unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, which they hallow unto Me, and that they profane not My holy name: I am HaShem.
Say unto them: Whosoever he be of all your seed throughout your generations, that approacheth unto the holy things, which the children of Israel hallow unto HaShem, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from before Me: I am HaShem.
What man soever of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or hath an issue, he shall not eat of the holy things, until he be clean. And whoso toucheth any one that is unclean by the dead; or from whomsoever the flow of seed goeth out;
or whosoever toucheth any swarming thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take uncleanness, whatsoever uncleanness he hath;
the soul that toucheth any such shall be unclean until the even, and shall not eat of the holy things, unless he bathe his flesh in water.
And when the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he may eat of the holy things, because it is his bread.
That which dieth of itself, or is torn of beasts, he shall not eat to defile himself therewith: I am HaShem.
They shall therefore keep My charge, lest they bear sin for it, and die therein, if they profane it: I am HaShem who sanctify them.
There shall no common man eat of the holy thing; a tenant of a priest, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.
But if a priest buy any soul, the purchase of his money, he may eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they may eat of his bread.
And if a priest's daughter be married unto a common man, she shall not eat of that which is set apart from the holy things.
But if a priest's daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have no child, and is returned unto her father's house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father's bread; but there shall no common man eat thereof.
And if a man eat of the holy thing through error, then he shall put the fifth part thereof unto it, and shall give unto the priest the holy thing.
And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they set apart unto HaShem;
and so cause them to bear the iniquity that bringeth guilt, when they eat their holy things; for I am HaShem who sanctify them.
And HaShem spoke unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them: Whosoever he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers in Israel, that bringeth his offering, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their free-will-offerings, which are brought unto HaShem for a burnt-offering;
that ye may be accepted, ye shall offer a male without blemish, of the beeves, of the sheep, or of the goats.
But whatsoever hath a blemish, that shall ye not bring; for it shall not be acceptable for you.
And whosoever bringeth a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto HaShem in fulfilment of a vow clearly uttered, or for a freewill-offering, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.
Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scabbed, or scurvy, ye shall not offer these unto HaShem, nor make an offering by fire of them upon the altar unto HaShem.
Either a bullock or a lamb that hath any thing too long or too short, that mayest thou offer for a freewill-offering; but for a vow it shall not be accepted.
That which hath its stones bruised, or crushed, or torn, or cut, ye shall not offer unto HaShem; neither shall ye do thus in your land.
Neither from the hand of a foreigner shall ye offer the bread of your G-d of any of these, because their corruption is in them, there is a blemish in them; they shall not be accepted for you.
And HaShem spoke unto Moses, saying:
When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam; but from the eighth day and thenceforth it may be accepted for an offering made by fire unto HaShem.
And whether it be cow or ewe, ye shall not kill it and its young both in one day.
And when ye sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving unto HaShem, ye shall sacrifice it that ye may be accepted.
On the same day it shall be eaten; ye shall leave none of it until the morning: I am HaShem.
And ye shall keep My commandments, and do them: I am HaShem.
And ye shall not profane My holy name; but I will be hallowed among the children of Israel: I am HaShem who hallow you,
that brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your G-d: I am HaShem.