Now these are the names of the tribes,—At the northern extremity, beside the Hethlon road—as one entereth Hamath, Hazar-enan the boundary of Damascus northwards by the side of Hamath, and so they shall be his as east side and west-Dan, one.
And, on the boundary of Dan from the east side unto the west side,—Asher one
And, on the boundary of Asher from the east side even unto the west side,- Naphtali one.
And, on the boundary of Naphtali from the east side unto the west side,— Manasseh one.
And, on the boundary of Manasseh from the east side unto the west side,— Ephraim, one.
And, on the boundary of Ephraim from the east side even unto the west side, Reuben one.
And, on the boundary of Reuben from the east side unto the west side,— Judah one.
And, on the boundary of Judah, from the east side unto the west side, shall be the heave-offering which ye shall offer up, five and twenty thousand in breadth and, in length, like one of the portions from the east side unto the west side, so shall the sanctuary be in the midst thereof.
the heave-offering which ye shall offer up to Yahweh shall be in length, five and twenty thousand, and in breadth, twenty thousand.
And pertaining to these, shall he the holy offering, even for the priests, northwards, five and twenty thousand, and westward, a breadth of ten thousand, and eastward, a breadth of ten thousand and southward, a length of five and twenty thousand,—so shall the sanctuary of Yahweh be in the midst thereof:—
for the priests that are hallowed—the sons of Zadok, who kept my charge,—who went not astray when the sons of Israel went astray, as, the Levites, went astray.
So then they shall have an offering out of the offering of the land a holy of holies,—toward the boundary of the Levites;
the Levites boundary answering to the boundary of the priests, five and twenty thousand in length and in breadth, ten thousand,—all the length five and twenty thousand, and the breadth twenty thousand.
And they shall not sell thereof, nor shall one exchange or alienate the first-fruits of the land,—for it is holy unto Yahweh.
And the five thousand that are left in the breadth, facing the five and twenty thousand, common shall it be to the city, for dwelling and for open space,—and the city shall be in the midst thereof.
These moreover shall be the measures thereof the north side, four thousand and five hundred, and the south side, four thousand and five hundred,—and the east side, four thousand and five hundred, and the west side, four thousand and five hundred.
And the open space of the city shall be, northward, two hundred and fifty, and southward, two hundred and fifty, —and eastward, two hundred and fifty, and westward, two hundred and fifty,
And the residue in length answering to the offering of the holy portion, shall be ten thousand on the east and ten thousand on the west, so shall it answer to the offering of the holy portion,- and the increase thereof shall be for food, for them who serve the city.
And they who serve the city shall serve it out of all the tribes of Israel.
All the offering shall be five and twenty thousand, by five and twenty thousand, —foursquare, shall ye offer up the offering of the holy portion, towards the possession of the city.
And the residue shall be for the prince, on this side and on that side of the holy offering and of the possession of the city, facing the five and twenty thousand of the offering, as far as the east boundary, and westward, facing the five and twenty thousand by the west boundary, answering to the portions for the prince,- thus shall it be the holy offering, with the sanctuary of the house in the midst thereof.
And out of the possession of the Levites and out of the possession of the city, in the midst of that which is for the prince, shall it be: between the boundary of Judah, and the boundary of Benjamin, for the prince shall it be.
And the residue of the tribes,—from the east side unto the west side, Benjamin one.
And on the boundary of Benjamin from the east side unto the west side, Simeon one.
And on the boundary of Simeon from the east side unto the west side, Issachar one.
And on the boundary of Issachar. from the east side unto the west side, Zebulun, one.
And on the boundary of Zebulun from the east side unto the west side, Gad, one.
And on the boundary of Gad, by the south side southward,- so shall there be a boundary from Tamar [unto] the waters of Meribath-kadish, towards the torrent-bed, as far as the great sea.
This is the land which ye shall divide by lot for inheritance to the tribes of Israel,—and these shall be their portions, Declareth My Lord Yahweh,
And these are the exits of the city,—on the north side, four thousand five hundred measures,
And the gates of the city, shall be after the names of the tribes of Israel; three gates, northward,-the gate of Reuben, one the gate of Judah, one the gate of Levi one;
and on the east side, four thousand and five hundred, with three gates,— even the gate of Joseph, one the gate of Benjamin, one the gate of Dan, one;
and on the south side, four thousand and five hundred in measure, with three gates,— the gate of Simeon, one the gate of Issachar, one the gate of Zebulun, one;
on the west side, four thousand and five hundred, their gates three,—the gate of Gad, one the gate of Asher, one, the gate of Naphtali one.
Round about, eighteen thousand. And the name of the city, from the day of Yahweh shall [continue to] be the name thereof.