O give thanks to Jehovah, For he is good, for his loving kindness is forever.
Let the redeemed of Jehovah say so, whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary,
and gathered out of the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way. They found no city of habitation.
Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
Then they cried to Jehovah in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses.
He also led them by a straight way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
O that men would praise Jehovah for his loving kindness, and for his wonderful works to the sons of men!
For he satisfies the longing soul, and he fills the hungry soul with good,
even those who sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron,
because they rebelled against the words of God, and scorned the counsel of the Most High.
Therefore he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down, and there was none to help.
Then they cried to Jehovah in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bonds apart.
O that men would praise Jehovah for his loving kindness, and for his wonderful works to the sons of men!
For he has broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron apart.
Fools are afflicted because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities.
Their soul abhors all manner of food, and they draw near to the gates of death.
Then they cry to Jehovah in their trouble, and he saves them out of their distresses.
He sends his word, and heals them, and delivers them from their destructions.
O that men would praise Jehovah for his loving kindness, and for his wonderful works to the sons of men!
And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with singing.
Those who go down to the sea in ships, who do business in great waters,
these men see the works of Jehovah, and his wonders in the deep.
For he commands, and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up the waves of it.
They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths. Their soul melts away because of trouble.
They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end.
Then they cry to Jehovah in their trouble, and he brings them out of their distresses.
He makes the storm a calm, so that the waves of it are still.
Then they are glad because they are quiet, so he brings them to their desired haven.
O that men would praise Jehovah for his loving kindness, and for his wonderful works to the sons of men!
Let them also exalt him in the assembly of the people, and praise him in the seat of the elders.
He turns rivers into a wilderness, and water springs into a thirsty ground,
a fruitful land into a salt desert, for the wickedness of those who dwell therein.
He turns a wilderness into a pool of water, and a dry land into water springs.
And there he makes the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city of habitation,
and sow fields, and plant vineyards, and get fruits of increase.
He also blesses them, so that they are multiplied greatly, and he does not allow their cattle to decrease.
Again, they are diminished and bowed down through oppression, trouble, and sorrow.
He pours contempt upon rulers, and causes them to wander in the waste, where there is no way.
Yet he sets a needy man on high from affliction, and makes him families like a flock.
The upright shall see it, and be glad. And all iniquity shall stop her mouth.
He who is wise will give heed to these things, and they will consider the loving kindnesses of Jehovah.