And Elijah the Tishbite, of the sojourners of Gilead, said to Ahab, As Jehovah the God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall be no dew nor rain these years, except according to my word.
And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
Go away from here; and you shall turn eastward and shall hide by the torrent Cherith, that is before Jordan.
And it shall be, you shall drink of the torrent; and I shall command the ravens to feed you there.
And he went and did according to the word of Jehovah; for he went and lived by the torrent Cherith, that is before Jordan.
And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the torrent.
And it after a while, that the torrent dried up, because there was no rain in the land.
And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
Rise up, go to Zarephath that belongs to Sidon; and you shall live there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain you.
And he rose up and went to Zarephath, and came in to the entrance of the city; and, behold, a widow woman was gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, Please bring to me a little water in a vessel, and I shall drink.
And she went to bring it . And he called to her and said, Please bring me a bit of bread in your hand.
And she said, As Jehovah your God lives, I do not have a cake, only a handful of meal in a pitcher, and a little oil in a jar; and behold, I am gathering two sticks and will go in and prepare for myself and for my son; and we shall eat it, and die.
And Elijah said to her, Do not fear, go, do according to your word, only first make me a little cake of it, and bring to me and afterward prepare for you and for your son.
For so says Jehovah the God of Israel, The pitcher of meal shall not be consumed, and the jar of oil shall not fail, until the day that Jehovah sends rain on the land.
And she went and did according to the word of Elijah, and she ate, she and he and her household, many days;
the pitcher of meal was not consumed, and the jar of oil did not fail, according to the word of Jehovah that He spoke by the hand of Elijah.
And it happened after these things, that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house became sick; and his illness was very severe until he had no breath left to him.
And she said to Elijah, What have I to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to me to cause my iniquity to be remembered, and to put my son to death?
And he said to her, Give me your son; and he took him out of her bosom, and caused him to go up into the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his own bed.
And he cried to Jehovah and said, Jehovah my God, have You also brought evil on the widow with whom I am staying, by slaying her son?
And he stretched himself on the child three times, and called to Jehovah and said, O Jehovah my God, I beg You, let the soul of this boy return to him.
And Jehovah listened to the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the boy returned to him, and he lived.
And Elijah took the boy and brought him down from the upper room of the house, and gave him to his mother; and Elijah said, See your son lives!
And the woman said to Elijah, Now I know this, that you are a man of God, and the word of Jehovah in your mouth is truth.