And, this, is the thing which thou shalt do to them to hallow them, that they may minister as priests unto me,—Take one young bullock and two rams without defect;
and bread unleavened and cakes unleavened with oil poured over, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil,—of fine wheaten meal, shalt thou make them;
and thou shalt place them in one basket, and bring them near in the basket,—and the bullock, and the two rams.
And Aaron and his sons, shalt thou bring near, unto the opening of the tent of meeting,—and shalt bathe them in water.
And thou shalt take the garments and clothe Aaron—with the tunic, and with the robe of the ephod, and with the ephod, and with the breastpiece,—and shalt gird him with the curious band of the ephod;
and shalt put the turban upon his head,—and place the holy crown upon the turban.
Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour upon his head,—so shalt thou anoint him.
His sons also, shalt thou bring near,—and clothe them with tunics;
and thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and twist round for them caps, so shall they have priesthood by a statute age-abiding,—so shalt thou install, Aaron and his sons.
And thou shalt bring near the bullock, before the tent of meeting,—and Aaron and his sons shall lean their hands upon the head of the bullock;
then shalt thou slay the bullock before Yahweh,—at the opening of the tent of meeting:
and thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and place upon the horns of the altar, with thy finger,—and all the remaining blood, shalt thou pour out at the foundation of the altar;
and thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inner part, and the caul upon the liver, and the two kidneys, with the fat which is upon them, and burn as incense on the altar:
but the flesh of the bullock and its skin, and its dung, shalt thou burn up with fire, outside the camp,—a sin-bearer, it is.
One ram also, shalt thou take, and Aaron and his sons shall lean their hands, upon the head of the ram;
then shalt thou slay the ram,—and take its blood, and dash upon the altar round about;
but the ram itself, shalt thou cut up into its pieces,—and shalt bathe its inner part, and its legs, and lay upon its pieces and upon its head;
and shalt burn the whole ram as incense on the altar, an ascending-sacrifice, it is to Yahweh,—a satisfying odour, an altar-flame to Yahweh, it is.
Then shalt thou take the second ram,—and Aaron and his sons shall lean their hands upon the head of the ram;
then shalt thou slay the ram, and take of its blood, and place upon the tip of the ear of Aaron and upon the tip of the ear of his sons—the right ear, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot,—and shalt dash the blood upon the altar round about.
Then shalt thou take of the blood that is upon the altar and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle upon Aaron and upon his garments, and upon his sons and upon the garments of his sons with him,—so shall he be hallowed—he, and his garments, and his sons and the garments of his sons, with him.
Then shalt thou take from the ram—the fat and the fat-tail and the fat that covereth the inner part and the caul of the liver and the two kidneys with the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder,—for, a ram of installation, it is,—
and one round-cake of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer,—out of the basket of unleavened cakes, which is before Yahweh;
and shalt lay the whole upon the heads of Aaron, and upon the hands of his sons,—then shalt thou wave them to and fro as a wave-offering, before Yahweh;
and shalt take them from their hand, and burn them as incense on the altar upon the ascending-sacrifice,—as a satisfying odour, before Yahweh, an altar-flame, it is to Yahweh.
Then shalt thou take the breast from the ram of installation which is for Aaron, and shalt wave it as a wave-offering, before Yahweh,—so shall it be thy share,
And thou shalt hallow the breast of the wave-offering, and the shoulder of the heave-offering, which is waved to and fro, and which is heaved up, from the ram of installation, from that which is for Aaron, and from that which is for his sons;
so shall it belong to Aaron and to his sons for an age-abiding statute from the sons of Israel, for a heave-offering, it is,—and, a heave-offering, shall it remain, from the sons of Israel out of their peace-offerings, their heave-offering to Yahweh.
And, the holy garments which belong to Aaron, shall belong to his sons, after him,-to be anointed therein, and to be installed therein,
Seven days, shall they be put on by him from among his sons who is priest in his stead,—by him who goeth into the tent of meeting, to minister in the holy place.
And, the ram of installation, shalt thou take,—and shalt boil its flesh, in a holy place;
and Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket,—at the opening of the tent of meeting:
thus shall they eat those things wherewith a propitiatory-covering hath been made, to install them, to hallow them, but, a stranger, shall not eat, for holy, they are.
And, if there be left over of the flesh of installation, or of the bread until the morning, then shalt thou burn up what is left over, in the fire, it shall not be eaten for holy, it is.
So then thou shalt do for Aaron and for his sons, in this manner, according to all which I have commanded, thee,—seven days, shalt thou install them.
And a sin-bearing bullock, shalt thou offer daily, for them who are to be covered by propitiation, and shalt make a sin-cleansing for the altar, when thou puttest a propitiatory-covering thereon,—and shalt anoint it to hallow it.
Seven days, shalt thou put a propitiatory-covering over the altar, and so shalt hallow it, thus shall the altar become most holy; whosoever toucheth the altar, must be holy.
This, moreover, is what thou shalt offer upon the altar, two lambs of a year old day by day, continually:
The one lamb, shalt thou offer in the morning, and the second lamb, shalt thou offer between the evenings;
and a tenth part of fine meal mingled with a fourth part of the hin of beaten oil, and, as a drink-offering, a fourth part of the hin of wine,—with the one lamb.
And the second lamb, shalt thou offer between the evenings,-according to the meal-offering of the morning, and according to the drink-offering thereof, shalt thou offer with it, for a satisfying odour, an altar-flame, to Yahweh:
a continual ascending-sacrifice to your generations, at the opening of the tent of meeting, before Yahweh, where will meet with you, to speak unto thee there.
So will I meet there with the sons of Israel, and it shall be hallowed by my glory.
Thus will I hallow the tent of meeting, and the altar,—and, Aaron and his sons, will I hallow, to minister as priests unto me.
Thus will I make my habitation in the midst of the sons of Israel, and will be their God;
and they shall know that, I—Yahweh, am their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt that I might make my habitation in their midst, I—Yahweh, their God.