And the man knew Eve his wife, and she conceived, and bore Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from Jehovah.
And again she bore his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought an offering to Jehovah of the fruit of the ground.
And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat of it. And Jehovah had respect to Abel and to his offering,
but he did not have respect to Cain and to his offering. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell.
And Jehovah said to Cain, Why are thou angry? And why has thy countenance fallen?
If thou do well, shall thou not be accepted? And if thou do not well, sin crouches at the door. Its desire shall be for thee, and thou shall rule over it.
And Cain told Abel his brother. And it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and killed him.
And Jehovah said to Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not. Am I my brother's keeper?
And he said, What have thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood cries to me from the ground.
And now cursed are thou from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand.
When thou till the ground, it shall not henceforth yield to thee its strength. A fugitive and a wanderer thou shall be on the earth.
And Cain said to Jehovah, My punishment is greater than I can bear.
Behold, thou have driven me out this day from the face of the ground, and I shall be hid from thy face, and I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth. And it shall come to pass, that whoever finds me shall slay me.
And Jehovah said to him, Therefore whoever kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And Jehovah appointed a sign for Cain, lest any who finds him should smite him.
And Cain went out from the presence of Jehovah, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.
And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived, and bore Enoch. And Cain built a city, and called the name of the city after the name of his son, Enoch.
And to Enoch was born Irad, and Irad begot Mehujael, and Mehujael begot Methushael, and Methushael begot Lamech.
And Lamech took to him two wives. The name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
And Adah bore Jabal. He was the father of such as dwell in tents and have cattle.
And his brother's name was Jubal. He was the father of all such as handle the harp and pipe.
And Zillah, she also bore Tubal-cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of brass and iron. And the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
And Lamech said to his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, hearken to my speech. For I have killed a man for wounding me, and a young man for bruising me.
If Cain shall be avenged seven fold, truly Lamech seventy-seven fold.
And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son, and called his name Seth. For, she said, God has appointed for me another seed instead of Abel, for Cain killed him.
And to Seth, to him also there was born a son, and he called his name Enosh. Then men began to call upon the name of Jehovah.