At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
And he called a child to him, and set him in the midst of them,
and said, Truly do I say to you, Unless ye are changed, and become as children, ye will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
Whoever therefore shall humble himself as this child, he is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
And whoever receiveth one such child in my name, receiveth me.
But whoever shall cause one of these little ones that believe in me to fall away, it were better for him to have a great millstone hung round his neck, and be swallowed up in the depth of the sea.
Woe to the world because of stumbling-blocks! For it must needs be that stumbling-blocks come; but woe to the man through whom the stumbling-block cometh!
And if thy hand or thy foot is causing thee to fall, cut it off, and cast it from thee; it is better for thee to enter into life maimed or lame, than having two hands, or two feet, to be cast into the everlasting fire.
And if thine eye is causing thee to fall, pluck it out, and cast it from thee; it is better for thee to enter into life with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell-fire.
Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say to you, that their angels in heaven continually behold the face of my Father who is in heaven.

What think ye? if a man have a hundred sheep, and one of them hath gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety-nine upon the mountains, and go and seek that which hath gone astray?
And if it happen that he find it, truly do I say to you, he rejoiceth over it more than over the ninety-nine that did not go astray.
Thus it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
Moreover, if thy brother sin, go and reprove him between thee and him alone. If he listen to thee, thou hast gained thy brother;
but if he do not listen, take with thee one or two more; that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
And if he disregard them, tell the matter to the church; but if he disregard the church also, let him be to thee as a heathen and a publican.
Truly do I say to you, Whatever ye shall bind on earth will be bound in heaven; and whatever ye shall loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.
Again, I say to you, that if two of you shall agree on earth concerning any thing that they shall ask, it will be done for them by my Father o who is in heaven.
For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
Then came Peter, and said to him, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Until seven times?
Jesus saith to him, I say not to thee, until seven times, but until seventy times seven.
Therefore the kingdom of heaven is likened to a king, who would settle accounts with his servants.
And when he had begun to reckon, there was brought to him one, who owed him ten thousand talents.
But as he was unable to pay, his lord ordered him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made.
Then that servant fell down and did obeisance to him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.
And the lord of that servant, being moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt.
But that servant went out, and found one of his fellow-servants, who owed him a hundred denaries; and he laid hold of him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay what thou owest.
His fellow-servant then fell down and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee.
And he would not; but went away and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt.
Then his fellow-servants, seeing what was done, were greatly grieved; and went and told their lord all that had been done.
Then his lord, having called him, saith to him, Thou wicked servant! All that debt I forgave thee because thou didst beseech me;
shouldst not thou also have had pity on thy fellow-servant, even as I had pity on thee?
And his lord was enraged, and delivered him to the inflicters of punishment, till he should pay all that was due to him.
So also will my heavenly Father do to you, if ye forgive not every one his brother from your hearts.