Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
"Honor your father and mother," which is the first commandment with a promise, Ex. 20:12
"that it may be well with you, and you may be long-lived on the earth". Deut. 5:16
And fathers, do not provoke your children, but bring them up in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.
Slaves, obey your lords according to flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to Christ;
not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but as slaves of Christ doing the will of God from the soul,
serving as slaves with good will to the Lord, and not as to men,
each one knowing that whatever good thing he does, this he shall receive from the Lord, whether a slave or a freeman.
And lords, do the same things toward them, forbearing threatening, knowing that the Lord of you and of them is in Heaven, and there is no respect of persons with Him.
For the rest, my brothers, be made powerful in the Lord and in the might of His strength.
Put on all the armor of God, for you to be able to stand against the wiles of the Devil,
because we are not wrestling against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the world's rulers, of the darkness of this age, against the spiritual powers of evil in the heavenlies.
Because of this, take up all of the armor of God that you may be able to resist in the evil day, and having worked out all things, to stand.
Then stand firm, "having girded your loins about with truth" and having put "on the breastplate of righteousness," Isa. 11:5; 59:17
and having shod the feet with the preparation of the "gospel of peace." Isa. 52:7
Above all, taking up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to quench all the darts of the evil one, having been made fiery.
Also, take "the helmet of salvation," and the sword of the Spirit which is the Word of God; Isa. 59:17 LXX-Isa. 11:4; MT-Isa. 49:2; LXX and MT-Hos. 6:5
through all prayer and petition, praying at every time in the Spirit, and watching to this same thing with all perseverance and petition concerning all the saints.
Pray also for me, that to me may be given speech in the opening of my mouth with boldness to make known the mystery of the gospel,
for which I am an ambassador in a chain, that in it I may speak boldly as it is right for me to speak.
But that you also may know the things about me, what I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make known all things to you,
whom I sent to you for this same thing, that you might know the things about us, and he may comfort your hearts.
Peace to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be with all those that love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility. Amen.