THEN Jesus went to the mount of Olives.
But early in the morning he came again to the temple, and all the people came to him; and sitting down he taught them.
Then the scribes and Pharisees brought to him a woman caught in adultery; and placing her in the midst,
they say unto him, Master, this woman was caught in adultery, in the very act.
Now Moses in the law commanded, that such women should be stoned: therefore what sayest thou?
But this they said, trying to entrap him, that they might have ground of accusation against him. But Jesus stooping down, with his finger wrote on the ground.
Now when they continued questioning him, raising himself up, he said to them, Let the person who is sinless among you, first cast a stone at her.
And again stooping down, he wrote on the ground.
But when they heard him, and felt the conviction of their conscience, they slunk away one by one, beginning from the elders to the last: so Jesus was left alone, with the woman standing in the midst.
Then Jesus raising himself up, and seeing no person but the woman, said unto her, Woman, where are these thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?
She said, No man, Lord. Then said Jesus unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.
Then spake Jesus again to them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
The Pharisees said to him, Thou bearest witness of thyself; thy witness is not true.
Jesus answered and said to them, Though I do bear witness of myself, my witness is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I am going; but ye know not whence I come, nor whither I am going.
Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man.
But though I should judge, my judgment is true: for I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent me.
Now even in your law it is written, that the testimony of two men is true.
I am a witness for myself, and the Father who sent me beareth witness of me.
Then said they to him, Where is thy father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye would have known my Father also.
These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no person apprehended him; for his hour was not yet come.
Then spake Jesus again to them, I am going away, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sin: whither I am going ye cannot come.
The Jews said therefore, Will he kill himself? because he said, Whither I go, ye cannot come.
And he said to them, Ye are from those beneath; I am from those above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world.
I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if ye believe not that I am, ye shall die in your sins.
They said, therefore to him, Who art thou? And Jesus said to them, Assuredly the same as I am telling you.
I have many things to speak and to decide concerning you: but he that sent me is true; and the things which I have heard from him I speak to the world.
They knew not that he spake to them of the Father.
Then said Jesus to them, When ye shall have lifted up on high the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am, and of myself have I done nothing; but as the Father hath instructed me, so I speak.
And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; because I always do the things acceptable to him.
As he spake these words, many believed on him.
Then said Jesus to those Jews who believed on him, If ye abide in my word, assuredly ye are my disciples;
and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
They answered him, We are Abraham’s seed, and never were in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, That we shall be made free?
Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, That every one who committeth sin is the slave of sin.
But the slave abideth not in the family for ever: but the son abideth for ever.
If the Son therefore make you free, ye will be truly free.
I know that ye are Abraham’s seed; yet ye seek to kill me, because my word has no place in you.
I speak what I have seen with my Father: and ye do therefore what ye have seen with your father.
They answered and said unto him, Our Father is Abraham. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were the children of Abraham, ye would have done the works of Abraham.
But now ye seek to kill me, a man who hath told you the truth, which I have heard from God. Abraham did not so.
Ye do the works of your father. They said unto him, We are not born of whoredom; we have one Father, even God.
Then said Jesus unto them, If God was your Father, ye would have loved me: for I came out from God, and I am coming; neither indeed came I of myself, but he hath sent me.
Wherefore do ye not understand my speech? because ye cannot hear my word.
Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will practise. He was a murderer from the beginning, and stood not fast in the truth, because truth was not in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh what is peculiarly his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.
But because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not.
Which of you can convict me of sin? Now if I speak the truth, why do ye not believe me?
He that is of God heareth the words of God: ye therefore do not hear him, because ye are not of God.
Then answered the Jews, and said to him, Do we not rightly affirm, that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil?
Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye dishonour me.
But I seek not my own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, If any man observe my saying, he shall never see death to all eternity.
Then said the Jews to him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If any man observe my word, he shall never taste of death to eternity.
Art thou greater than our father Abraham, who is dead? and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself?
Jesus answered, If I assume glory to myself, my glory is nothing: it is the Father who glorifies me; of whom ye say, that he is your God:
yet have ye not known him; but I know him: and if I should say, that I know him not, I should be like you, a liar: but I know him, and observe his word.
Your father Abraham exulted for joy that he should see this day of mine: and saw it, and rejoiced.
Then said the Jews unto him, Thou hast not yet reached the age of fifty, and hast thou seen Abraham?
Jesus said unto them, Before Abraham had a being, I Am.
Then took they up stones to hurl at him: but Jesus was hid, and went out of the temple, passing through the midst of them, and so went away.