To the courses of the door-keepers, pertained,—of the Korahites, Meshelemiah son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph;
and, Meshelemiah, had sons,—Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth;
Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.
And, Obed-edom, had sons,—Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Josh the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethanel the fifth;
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai, the eighth,—for God had blessed him.
And, to Shemaiah his son, were born sons, who bare rule to their ancestral house,—for, heroes of valour, were they.
the sons of Shemaiah, were Othni and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were sons of valour,—Elihu, and Semachiah.
All these, were of the sons of Obed-edom, they and their sons and their brethren, able men in strength for the service,—sixty-two, pertaining to Obed-edom.
And, Meshelemiah, had sons, and brethren, sons of valour, eighteen.
And, Hosah of the sons of Merari, had sons,—Shimri the chief, for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father, made him, chief.
Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth,—all the sons and brethren of Hosah, were thirteen.
To these, belonged the courses of door-keepers, to the chiefs of the strong men, belonged charges, equally with their brethren,—to be in attendance in the house of Yahweh.
Yea they cast lots, as the small so the great, by their ancestral house, for every several gate.
And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. And, for Zechariah his son, a discreet counsellor, they cast lots, and his lot came out, northward.
To Obed-edom, southward,—and, to his sons, the storehouse.
To Shuppim and to Hosah, westward, near the refuse-gate, in the causeway that goeth up,—one ward as well as another.
Eastward—daily, were six,—northward—daily, four, southward—daily, four, and, for the stores, two and two.
For the precinct—westward, four, at the causeway, two—by the precinct.
These, were the courses of the door-keepers, of the sons of the Korahites, and of the sons of Merari.
And, the Levites, their brethren, were over the treasuries of the house of God, even to the treasuries of hallowed things.
The sons of Ladan—the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan—the ancestral chiefs belonging to Ladan the Gershonite, were Jehieli;
the sons of Jehieli, Zetham and Joel his brother who were over the treasuries of the house of Yahweh.
Then came certain of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites, of the Uzzielites.
And, Shebuel, son of Gershom, son of Moses, was chief ruler over the treasuries.
And, his brethren pertaining to Eliezer, were Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son.
The same Shelomoth and his brethren, were over all the treasuries of the hallowed things, which David the king and the ancestral chiefs, with the captains of thousands and hundreds and the captains of the army, had hallowed:
out of the battles and out of the spoil, had they hallowed [them],—to strengthen [the provision] for the house of Yahweh.
And, all that Samuel the seer, and Saul son of Kish, and Abner son of Ner, and Joab son of Zeruiah, had hallowed, whosoever had hallowed anything, it was under the direction of Shelomoth, and his brethren.
Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons, were for the outward business over Israel,—as officers, and as judges.
Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, sons of valour, one thousand seven hundred, had the oversight of Israel, across the Jordan westward,—for all the business of Yahweh, and for the service of the king.
Of the Hebronites, Jerijah, was chief, [he was] of the Hebronites by his generations, by his fathers,—in the fortieth year of the reign of David, were they sought out, and there were found among them heroes of valour, in Jazer of Gilead;
and, his brethren that were heroes of valour, were two thousand and seven hundred, ancestral chiefs,—so David the king gave them oversight, over the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half tribe of Manassites, in all the affairs of God, and the affairs of the king.