And there was given me a reed similar to a rod, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and those who worship in it.
And leave out the court outside the temple, and do not measure it, because it has been given to the nations. And they will trample the holy city forty-two months.
And I will give to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days clothed in sackcloth.
These men are the two olive trees and the two lampstands, having stood before the Lord of the earth.
And if any man wants to harm them, fire comes out of their mouth and devours their enemies. And if any man wants to harm them, he must be killed this way.
These men have authority to shut the sky, so that it may not rain the days of their prophecy. And they have authority over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every plague, as often as they may desire.
And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that ascends out of the abyss will make war with them, and he will overcome them and kill them.
And their corpses are in the thoroughfare of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified.
And out of the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations they see their corpses three and a half days. And they will not allow their corpses to be put in a sepulcher.
And those who dwell upon the earth rejoice over them, and will celebrate, and will give gifts to each other, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
And after the three and a half days a spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet, and great fear fell upon those who watched them.
And I heard a great voice from heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they ascended up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies watched them.
And in that day a great earthquake occurred, and the tenth part of the city fell. And seven thousand names of men were killed in the earthquake. And the rest became afraid, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second woe departed. Behold, the third woe comes quickly.
And the seventh agent sounded, and great voices occurred in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world has become of our Lord, and of his Christ, and he will reign into the ages of the ages.
And the twenty-four elders who sit before the throne of God, on their thrones, fell upon their faces and worshiped God,
saying, We thank thee, Lord God Almighty, who is and was, because thou have taken thy great power and reigned.
And the nations were angry. And thy wrath came, and the time of the dead to be judged, and to give the reward to thy bondmen the prophets, and to the sanctified, and to those who fear thy name, the small and the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.
And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord was seen in his temple. And there occurred lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and great hail.