And it came to pass in those days, that there went forth a decree from Cæsar Augustus, that all the inhabitants of the land should be enrolled.
This enrollment first took place when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.
And all went to be enrolled, each one to his own city.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, (for he was of the house and family of David,).
to be enrolled with Mary his betrothed wife, who was with child.
And it came to pass while they were there, that the days for her to be delivered were completed;
and she brought forth her first-born son, and wrapped him in swathing-clothes, and laid him in the stable, because there was no place for them in the inn.
And there were in the same country shepherds, living in the open field, and guarding their flock by night.
And, behold, an angel of the Lord stood by them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them; and they were greatly afraid.
And the angel said to them: Be not afraid; for, behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which shall be for all people.
For there is born for you this day, in the city of David, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.
And this shall be to you the sign: you will find the babe wrapped in swathing-clothes, and lying in a stable.
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God, and saying:
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will among men.
And it came to pass, that, after the angels had gone away into heaven, the shepherds said one to another: Let us now go to Bethlehem, and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us.
And they came with haste, and found both Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in the stable.
And after they had seen it, they made known everywhere the words that had been spoken to them of this child.
And all that heard, wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds.
But Mary kept all these things in her mind, and pondered them in her heart.
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all things which they had heard and seen, as it had been told to them.
And when eight days were completed for circumcising him, his name was called Jesus, as it had been called by the angel, before he was conceived in the womb.
And when the days for their purification were completed according to the law of Moses, they brought him to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord,
(as it is written in the law of the Lord: Every male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;)
and to offer a sacrifice, according to that which is commanded in the law of the Lord: A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.
And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon. And this man was just and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him:
and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit, that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord’s Anointed.
And he came by the Spirit into the temple; and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the law,
he took him in his arms, and blessed God, and said:
Now, Lord, thou dost let thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word,
for my eyes have seen thy salvation,
which thou hast prepared before the face of all people;
a light for a revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.
And Joseph and his mother wondered at the things which were spoken of him.
And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary his mother: Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign to be spoken against,
(and a sword shall pierce through your own soul,) that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.
And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher; she was of great age, and had lived with a husband seven years from her virginity:
and she was a widow of about eighty-four years, and she departed not from the temple, but served, day and night, with fastings and prayers.
And she came in at that hour, and gave thanks to Lord, and spoke of him to all that looked for redemption in Jerusalem.
And when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
And the child grew, and became strong in spirit, being filled with wisdom; and the grace of God was upon him.
And his parents went up every year to Jerusalem, at the feast of passover.
And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem, according to the custom of the feast.
And when they had kept the full number of days, and had set out to return, the child Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew it not.
But supposing that he was in the company, they went a day’s journey; and they sought for him among their relatives and acquaintance;
and not finding him, they returned to Jerusalem in search of him.
And it came to pass, after three days, that they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them, and asking them questions.
And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding, and his answers.
And when they saw him they were amazed. And his mother said to him: Child, why have you acted thus toward us? Behold, your father and I have sought for you in sorrow.
And he said to them: Why did you seek for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father’s house?
And they did not understand the words which he spoke to them.
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was obedient to them. And his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature, and in favor with God and with man.