NOW in those days, when the disciples were multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecian proselytes against the Hebrews, because their widows were overlooked in the daily distribution.
Then the twelve assembling the multitude of the disciples, said, It is not fit that we should leave the word of God, to make distribution to the tables.
Therefore, brethren, do ye look out for seven men from among yourselves, the best approved, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint to superintend this business.
But we will devote ourselves constantly to prayer, and to the ministry of the word.
And this saying was very agreeable to all the multitude: and they elected Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicholas a proselyte a man of Antioch:
whom they presented before the apostles: and having prayed, they laid their hands upon them.
And the word of God increased: and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem was multiplied greatly; and a vast body of the priests were obedient to the faith.
Now Stephen, full of faith and of power, wrought great miracles and signs among the people.
Then rose up certain men of the synagogue of the freed-men, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of those from Cilicia and Asia, disputing with Stephen.
And they could not resist the wisdom and the spirit with which he spoke.
Then they suborned men to say, We heard him speak blasphemous things against Moses, and against God.
And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and coming upon him, they seized him together, and dragged him to the sanhedrim;
and they set up false witnesses, saying, This man doth not cease speaking blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law:
for we have heard him affirm, that Jesus the Nazarean, even he, will destroy this place, and change the accustomed ordinances which Moses delivered to us.
And fixing their eyes upon him, all who sat in the sanhedrim, beheld his face as the face of an angel.