Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance. And he joined affinity with Ahab.
And after certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people who were with him, and moved him to go up with him to Ramoth-gilead.
And Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Will thou go with me to Ramoth-gilead? And he answered him, I am as thou are, and my people as thy people, and will be with thee in the war.
And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Inquire first, I pray thee, for the word of Jehovah.
Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said to them, Shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up. For God will deliver it into the hand of the king.
But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of Jehovah besides, that we may inquire of him?
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Jehovah, but I hate him. For he never prophesies good concerning me, but always evil; the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.
Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.
Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah each sat on his throne, arrayed in their robes. And they were sitting in an open place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made for him horns of iron, and said, Thus says Jehovah, With these thou shall push the Syrians until they be consumed.
And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and prosper. For Jehovah will deliver it into the hand of the king.
And the messenger who went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, Behold, the words of the prophets are good to the king with one mouth. Let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of theirs, and speak thou good.
And Micaiah said, As Jehovah lives, what my God says, that will I speak.
And when he came to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered into your hand.
And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of Jehovah?
And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. And Jehovah said, These have no master. Let them return every man to his house in peace.
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?
And Micaiah said, Therefore hear ye the word of Jehovah. I saw Jehovah sitting upon his throne, and all the host of heaven standing at his right hand and at his left.
And Jehovah said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one spoke saying after this manner, and another saying after that manner.
And there came forth a spirit, and stood before Jehovah, and said, I will entice him. And Jehovah said to him, With what?
And he said, I will go forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou shall entice him, and shall also prevail. Go forth, and do so.
Now therefore, behold, Jehovah has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these thy prophets. And Jehovah has spoken evil concerning thee.
Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah upon the cheek, and said, Which way did the Spirit of Jehovah go from me to speak to thee?
And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shall see on that day when thou shall go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.
And the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son,
and say, Thus says the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I return in peace.
And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, Jehovah has not spoken by me. And he said, Hear, ye peoples, all of you.
So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and go into the battle, but put thou on thy robes. So the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went into the battle.
Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, except only with the king of Israel.
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they turned around to fight against him. But Jehoshaphat cried out. And Jehovah helped him, and God moved them from him.
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.
And a certain man drew his bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the armor. Therefore he said to the driver of the chariot, Turn thy hand, and carry me out of the army. For I am severely wounded.
And the battle increased that day. However the king of Israel propped himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the evening. And about the time of the going down of the sun he died.