WE then that are strong, ought to bear the infirmities of those who are feeble, and not to gratify ourselves.
Let every one of us gratify his neighbour in that which is good for his edification.
For even Christ gratified not himself; but as it is written, “The reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.”
For whatsoever things were written aforetime, were written for our instruction; that by patience and the consolation of the Scriptures we might have hope.
Now the God of patience and consolation give you to be like-minded among each other, according to Christ Jesus:
that in one mind, with one mouth, ye may glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore help one another, as Christ also hath helped us, for the glory of God.
Now I say that Jesus Christ was the minister of circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:
and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is written, “For this cause will I confess unto thee among the Gentiles, and sing unto thy name.”
And again he saith, “Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.”
And again, “Praise the Lord, all ye nations, and laud him, all ye people.”
And again Isaiah saith, “There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that ariseth to reign over the Gentiles, in him shall the Gentiles trust.”
Now the God of hope fill you with all joy, and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Ghost.
And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and able to admonish one another.
But I have written to you, my brethren, in part, with greater freedom, as refreshing your memory through the grace which is given to me of God;
that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ unto the Gentiles, ministering the Gospel of God; that the oblation of the Gentiles might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Ghost.
I have therefore cause to glory in Christ Jesus with regard to the things of God.
For I will not dare to say any thing of those things which Christ hath not wrought by my ministry, to engage the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed,
by the power of signs and miracles, by the might of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and in a circle quite round unto Illyricum, I have fully spread the gospel of Christ.
But I have in such manner endeavoured to preach the gospel, not where Christ’s name had been heard, lest I should build upon another man’s foundation:
but as it is written, “To whom the tidings concerning him have not reached, they shall see, and they who have not heard, shall understand.”
Wherefore also I have found many things to hinder me from coming to you;
but now having no longer cause to detain me in these regions, and having an earnest desire to come unto you for many years past,
whenever I proceed on my journey into Spain, I will come unto you: for I hope on my journey to see you, and by you to be forwarded thither, after I shall have first, in a measure, fully enjoyed your society.
But I am now going to Jerusalem, to carry alms to the saints.
For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make a certain contribution for the poor of the saints that are at Jerusalem.
They have been so pleased indeed, and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been admitted to a participation in their spiritual things, they ought also to minister to them in carnal things.
When therefore I have completed this work, and sealed unto them this fruit, I will pass by you into Spain.
But I know that, when I come to you, I shall come with the fulness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.
Now I exhort you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit, that you wrestle earnestly with me in prayers for me unto God;
that I may be delivered from those who do not believe in Judea; and that my service which regards Jerusalem may be kindly accepted by the saints;
that I may come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may be refreshed together with you.
Now the God of peace be with you all! Amen.