And Bezaleel and Aholiab shall work with everyone wise of heart to whom the LORD has given wisdom and intelligence, to know how to do every work of the service of the sanctuary, concerning all which the LORD had commanded.
And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise-hearted man in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even everyone whose heart stirred him up to come, to do the work.
And they received all the offerings from Moses, the offering which the sons of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it. And they still brought to him free offerings every morning.
And all the wise men who worked all the work of the sanctuary came, every man from his work which they made.
And they spoke to Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which the LORD commanded to make.
And Moses commanded, and they caused it to be known throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. And the people were kept from bringing.
For the stuff which they had was enough for all the work to make it, and too much.
And every wise-hearted one among them that worked the work of the tabernacle, made ten curtains of fine twined bleached linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet. He made them with cherubs of skillful work.
The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain was four cubits. The curtains were all of one size.
And he coupled the five curtains to one another, and he coupled the other five curtains to one another.
And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the edge in the coupling. Likewise he made loops in the outermost side, in the coupling of the second curtain.
He made fifty loops in one curtain, and he made fifty loops in the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second. The loops held one to another.
And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains to one another with the clasps. And it became one tabernacle.
And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over the tabernacle. He made eleven curtains.
The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits the breadth of one curtain. The eleven curtains were of one size.
And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.
And he made fifty loops on the outermost edge of the curtain in the coupling, and he made fifty loops upon the edge of the curtains which coupled the second.
And he made fifty clasps of bronze to couple the tent together, so that it might be one.
And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of dugong skins above.
And he made boards for the tabernacle of acacia-wood, standing up.
The length of a board was ten cubits, and the breadth of a board was one and a half cubits.
By two pins the one board was connected, one to another. So he made for all the boards of the tabernacle.
And he made boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
And he made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two pins, and two sockets under another board for its two pins.
And for the other side of the tabernacle, toward the north, he made twenty boards,
and their forty sockets were of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
And he made six boards for the sides of the tabernacle westward.
And he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the sides.
And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the head of it, to one ring. So he did to both of them in both the corners.
And there were eight boards. And their sockets were sixteen sockets of silver, two sockets under every board.
And he made bars of acacia-wood, five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the westward sides.
And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from the one end to the other.
And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold to be places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
And he made a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen. He made it the work of an artisan, with cherubs.
And he made for it four pillars of acacia. And he overlaid them with gold. Their hooks were of gold, and he cast four sockets of silver for them.
And he made a screen for the tabernacle door, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen, of needlework;
and the five pillars of it, and their hooks. And he overlaid their capitals and their fillets with gold, but their five sockets were of bronze.