And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man Prophesy. and thou shalt say, Thus saith My Lord Yahweh,— Howl ye. Alas for the day!
For near, is a day, Yea near, is a day pertaining to Yahweh, A day of cloud, A time of nations, shall it be!
Then shall come a sword into Egypt, And there shall be a pang in Ethiopia When the deadly wounded one falleth in Egypt,- And they take away her multitude, and, her foundations, are broken down.
Ethiopia and Libya and Lydia, and all the mixed multitude and Cub, and the sons of the land of the covenant with them—by the sword, shall they fall.
Thus saith Yahweh, Then shall fall the supporters of Egypt, Then shall come down the pride of her strength, —From Migdol to Seweneh, by the sword shall they fall therein, Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.
So shall they be made desolate in the midst of lands that are desolate,- And :his cities—in the midst of cities that are laid waste, shall be found.
So shall they know that, I am Yahweh,- By my setting a fire in Egypt, When all her helpers shall be broken.
In that day, shall messengers go forth from before me making haste, to cause dread unto Ethiopia so confident,- And a pang shall be upon them in the day of Egypt, For lo! it cometh.
Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh,— Therefore will I cause to cease the multitude of Egypt, by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon:
He, and his people with him the terrible ones of the nations are about to be brought in to destroy the land,- Therefore shall they unsheathe their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain;
And I will make the rivers dry, and will sell the land into the hand of wicked one.—and make the land desolate with the fulness thereof, by the hand of foreigners, I, Yahweh! have spoken.
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, Therefore will I destroy the manufactured gods and Cause to cease the worthless goals, out of Noph, And prince out of the land of Egypt, shall none arise any more,- And I will cause fear in the land of Egypt.
Then will I bring desolation upon Pathros, and Set a fire in Zoan, and Execute judgments upon No: and
Pour out mine indignation upon Sin the stronghold of Egypt, and Will cut off the multitude of No.
So will I set a fire in Egypt, Sore anguish shall take Sin. And, No, shall be for rending asunder, And Noph, be in straits every day,
The young men of Aven and Pi-beseth, by the sword, shall fall; And lo! into captivity, shall they themselves wend their way.
And in Tehaphnehes, hath the day become dark, Because I have broken, there the yoke-bars of Egypt, And there shall be made to cease therein the pride of her strength,— She, a cloud, shall cover her! And her daughters into captivity, shall wend their way.
Thus will I execute judgments on Egypt; And they shall know that, I, am Yahweh.
And it came to pass in the eleventh year in the first month on the seventh of the month, that the word of Yahweh came unto me saying:
Son of man, The arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt, have I broken,- And lo! it hath not been bound up-To apply healing remedies To put on a bandage for binding it up. To make it strong to grasp the sword.
Therefore, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh-Behold me! against Pharaoh king of Egypt, Therefore will I break his arms, That which is strong, and That which is broken,- So will I cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
And I will disperse the Egyptians among the nations,— And scatter them throughout the lands;
And will uphold the arms of the king of Babylon, And put my sword into his hand,- And will break the arms of Pharaoh, And he shall utter the groans of one thrust through, before him.
Yea I will uphold the arms of the king of Babylon, But the arms of Pharaoh shall fall, And they shall know that I am Yahweh By my putting my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, And he shall stretch it out against the land of Egypt.
So will I disperse the Egyptians among the nations, And scatter them throughout the lands, And they shall know that, I, am Yahweh.