A soft answere putteth away wrath: but grieuous wordes stirre vp anger.
The tongue of the wise vseth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fooles babbleth out foolishnesse.
The eyes of the Lord in euery place beholde the euill and the good.
A wholesome tongue is as a tree of life: but the frowardnes therof is the breaking of ye minde.
A foole despiseth his fathers instruction: but he that regardeth correction, is prudent.
The house of the righteous hath much treasure: but in the reuenues of the wicked is trouble.
The lippes of the wise doe spread abroade knowledge: but ye heart of the foolish doth not so.
The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination to the Lord: but the prayer of the righteous is acceptable vnto him.
The way of the wicked is an abomination vnto the Lord: but he loueth him that followeth righteousnes.
Instruction is euill to him that forsaketh the way, and he that hateth correction, shall die.
Hell and destruction are before the Lord: how much more the hearts of the sonnes of men?
A scorner loueth not him that rebuketh him, neither will he goe vnto the wise.
A ioyfull heart maketh a chearefull countenance: but by the sorow of the heart the minde is heauie.
The heart of him that hath vnderstanding, seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of the foole is fedde with foolishnes.
All the dayes of the afflicted are euill: but a good conscience is a continuall feast.
Better is a litle with the feare of the Lord, then great treasure, and trouble therewith.
Better is a dinner of greene herbes where loue is, then a stalled oxe and hatred therewith.
An angrie man stirreth vp strife: but hee that is slowe to wrath, appeaseth strife.
The way of a slouthfull man is as an hedge of thornes: but the way of the righteous is plaine.
A wise sonne reioyceth the father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.
Foolishnes is ioy to him that is destitute of vnderstanding: but a man of vnderstanding walketh vprightly.
Without cousel thoughts come to nought: but in the multitude of counsellers there is stedfastnesse.
A ioy commeth to a man by the answere of his mouth: and how good is a word in due season?
The way of life is on high to the prudent, to auoyde from hell beneath.
The Lord will destroye the house of the proude men: but hee will stablish the borders of the widowe.
The thoughts of ye wicked are abomination to the Lord: but the pure haue pleasant wordes.
He that is greedie of gaine, troubleth his owne house: but he that hateth giftes, shall liue.
The heart of the righteous studieth to answere: but the wicked mans mouth babbleth euil thinges.
The Lord is farre off from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes reioyceth the heart, and a good name maketh the bones fat.
The eare that hearkeneth to the correction of life, shall lodge among the wise.
Hee that refuseth instruction, despiseth his owne soule: but he that obeyeth correction, getteth vnderstanding.
The feare of the Lord is the instruction of wisdome: and before honour, goeth humilitie.