Stand fast therefore in the libertie wherewith Christ hath made vs free, and be not intangled againe with the yoke of bondage.
Beholde, I Paul say vnto you, that if yee be circumcised, Christ shall profite you nothing.
For I testifie againe to euery man, which is circumcised, that he is bound to keepe the whole Lawe.
Ye are abolished from Christ: whosoeuer are iustified by the Law, ye are fallen from grace.
For we through the Spirit waite for the hope of righteousnes through faith.
For in Iesus Christ neither circumcision auaileth any thing, neither vncircumcision, but faith which worketh by loue.
Ye did runne well: who did let you, that ye did not obey the trueth?
It is not the perswasion of him that calleth you.
A litle leauen doeth leauen the whole lumpe.
I haue trust in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but hee that troubleth you, shall beare his condemnation, whosoeuer he be.
And brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why doe I yet suffer persecution? Then is the slaunder of the crosse abolished.
Would to God they were euen cut off, which doe disquiet you.
For brethren, ye haue bene called vnto libertie: onely vse not your libertie as an occasion vnto the flesh, but by loue serue one another.
For all the Lawe is fulfilled in one worde, which is this, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
If ye bite and deuoure one another, take heede least ye be consumed one of another.
Then I say, Walke in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lustes of the flesh.
For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary one to another, so that ye can not doe the same things that ye would.
And if ye be led by the Spirit, ye are not vnder the Lawe.
Moreouer the workes of the flesh are manifest, which are adulterie, fornication, vncleannes, wantonnes,
Idolatrie, witchcraft, hatred, debate, emulations, wrath, contentions, seditions, heresies,
Enuie, murthers, drunkennesse, gluttonie, and such like, whereof I tell you before, as I also haue tolde you before, that they which doe such things, shall not inherite the kingdome of God.
But the fruite of the Spirit is loue, ioye, peace, long suffering, gentlenes, goodnes, fayth,
Meekenesse, temperancie: against such there is no lawe.
For they that are Christes, haue crucified the flesh with the affections and the lustes.
If we liue in the Spirit, let vs also walke in the Spirit.
Let vs not be desirous of vaine glorie, prouoking one another, enuying one another.