In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, began Abijah to reign over Judah:
three years, reigned he in Jerusalem, and, the name of his mother, was Maacah, daughter of Uriel of Gibeah,—and there was, war, between Abijah and Jeroboam.
And Abijah began the war with a force of heroes of war, four hundred thousand chosen men,—and, Jeroboam, set in array against him to battle, with eight hundred thousand chosen men, heroes of valour.
And Abijah stood up upon Mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill country of Ephraim,—and said, Hear me, O Jeroboam and all Israel!
Is it not yours to know, that, Yahweh God of Israel gave the kingdom to David, over Israel, unto times age-abiding,—to him and to his sons, by a covenant of salt?
Yet hath Jeroboam son of Nebat, servant of Solomon son of David, risen up,—and rebelled against his lord.
And there are gathered unto him vain men, sons of the Abandoned One, who emboldened themselves against Rehoboam son of Solomon,-when, Rehoboam, was young and tender of heart, and had not strengthened himself to meet them.
Now, therefore, ye, are thinking to strengthen yourselves against the kingdom of Yahweh, in the hand of the sons of David,—and, ye, are a great multitude, and, with you, are calves of gold, which Jeroboam hath made you for gods.
Have ye not driven out the priests of Yahweh, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites,—and made for yourselves priests like the peoples of the countries? Whosoever cometh to install himself with a young bullock, and seven rams, then becometh he a priest unto the, no-gods.
But, as for us, Yahweh, is our God, and we have not forsaken him,—and, the priests who are waiting upon Yahweh, are sons of Aaron, with Levites in the work;
and they are making a perfume unto Yahweh, with ascending-sacrifices morning by morning, and evening by evening and an incense of sweet spices, and are putting in order bread upon the pure table, and the lampstand of gold with the lamps thereof, for lighting up evening by evening, for, observant, are we of the charge of Yahweh our God,—whereas, ye, have forsaken him.
And lo! with us as Head, is God himself, and his priests, and the trumpets of alarm, to sound an alarm against you,—O sons of Israel! do not fight against Yahweh God of your fathers, for ye shall not prosper.
But, Jeroboam, sent round an ambush, to come up from behind them,—so they were before Judah and, the ambush, did come up from behind them.
And, when Judah turned and lo! as for them, the battle was before and behind, then made they outcry unto Yahweh,—and, the priests, kept on blowing with the trumpets.
Then the men of Judah gave a shout,—and it came to pass, when the men of Judah shouted, then, God himself, smote Jeroboam and all Israel, before Abijah and Judah.
And the sons of Israel fled from before Judah,—and God delivered them into their hand.
And Abijah and his people smote among them with a great smiting,—and there fell down slain, of Israel, five hundred thousand chosen men.
Thus were the sons of Israel subdued at that time,—and the sons of Judah prevailed, because they leaned upon Yahweh the God of their fathers.
And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and captured from him, cities, even Bethel, with the villages thereof, and Jeshanah, with the villages thereof,—and Ephron, with the villages thereof;
neither was Jeroboam strong any more, in the days of Abijah,—and Yahweh smote him that he died.
And Abijah strengthened himself, and took him, fourteen wives,—and begat twenty-two sons, and sixteen daughters.
And, the rest of the story of Abijah, both his ways and his words,—are written, in the commentary of the prophet Iddo.