And all the publicans and the sinners came near to him to hear him.
And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying: This man receives sinners, and eats with them.
And he spoke this parable to them, saying:
What man of you that has a hundred sheep, and loses one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the desert, and go after that which is lost, till he find it?
And when he finds it, he puts it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, and says to them., Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.
I say to you, That thus there shall be joy in heaven over one sinner that repents, more than over ninety-nine just persons, who need no repentance.
Or, what woman that has ten drachmas, if she lose one drachma, does not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and search carefully till she find it?
And when she finds it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma that I lost.
So, I say to you, There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repents.
Then he said: A certain man had two sons.
And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of the property that falls to me. And he divided his estate between them.
And not many days after, the younger son, taking with him all that was his, left home for a distant country, and there wasted his property in riotous living.
When he had spent all, there was a great famine throughout that country, and he began to be in want.
And he went and attached himself to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed swine.
And he would gladly have filled his stomach with the pods which the swine did eat. And no one gave to him.
But when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father’s hired servants have bread enough and to spare, and I am perishing with hunger!
I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight,
and am no longer worthy to be called your son: make me as one of your hired servants.
And he arose, and came to his father. And while he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion on him, and ran and fell upon his neck, and kissed him.
But his son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight, and am no longer worthy to be called your son.
But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and sandals on his feet.
And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat and be merry;
for this my son was dead, and is alive again: he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.
But his elder son was in the field; and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
And he called to him one of the servants, and asked what these things meant.
And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him in health.
And he was angry, and would not go in. Then his father went out and entreated him.
But he answered and said to his father, Behold, for so many years do I serve you, and never have I transgressed your commandment, and yet you never gave me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends.
But as soon as this your son has come, Who has eaten up your estate with harlots, you have killed for him the fatted calf.
And he said to him, Son, you are ever with me, and all that I have is yours.
But it became us to make merry and rejoice; for this your brother was dead, and is alive again: was lost, and is found.