On the first day of the week, early in the morning, while it was still dark, Mary of Magdala went to the tomb, and saw that the stone had been removed.
So she came running to Simon Peter, and to that other disciple who was Jesus’ friend, and said to them: “They have taken away the Master out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him!”
So, Peter started off with that other disciple, and they went to the tomb.
The two began running together; but the other disciple ran faster than Peter, and reached the tomb first.
Stooping down, he saw the linen wrappings lying there, but did not go in.
Presently Simon Peter came following behind him, and went into the tomb; and he looked at the linen wrappings lying there,
and the cloth which had been on Jesus’ head, not lying with the wrappings, but rolled up on one side, separately.
Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, went inside too, and he saw for himself and was convinced.
For they did not then understand the passage of scripture which says that Jesus must rise again from the dead.
The disciples then returned to their companions.
Meanwhile Mary was standing close outside the tomb, weeping. Still weeping, she leant forward into the tomb,
and perceived two angels clothed in white sitting there, where the body of Jesus had been lying, one where the head and the other where the feet had been.
“Why are you weeping?” asked the angels. “They have taken my Master away,” she answered, “and I do not know where they have laid him.”
After saying this, she turned around, and looked at Jesus standing there, but she did not know that it was Jesus.
“Why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?”he asked. Supposing him to be the gardener, Mary answered: “If it was you, Sir, who carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away myself.”
“Mary!”said Jesus. She turned around, and exclaimed in Hebrew: “Rabboni!” (or, as we should say, ‘teacher’).
“Do not hold me,”Jesus said; “for I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers, and tell them that I am ascending to him who is my Father and their Father, my God and their God.”
Mary of Magdala went and told the disciples that she had seen the Master, and that he had said this to her.
In the evening of the same day — the first day of the week — after the doors of the room, in which the disciples were, had been shut because they were afraid of the religious authorities, Jesus came and stood among them and said: “Peace be with you”;
after which he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples were filled with joy when they saw the Master.
Again Jesus said to them: “Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me as his messenger, so I am sending you.”
After saying this, he breathed on them, and said: “Receive the Holy Spirit;
if you remit anyone’s sins, they have been remitted; and, if you retain them, they have been retained.”
But Thomas, one of the Twelve, called ‘The Twin,’ was not with them when Jesus came;
so the rest of the disciples said to him: “We have seen the Master!”  “Unless I see the marks of the nails in his hands,” he exclaimed, “and put my finger into the marks, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe it.”
A week later the disciples were again in the house, and Thomas with them. After the doors had been shut, Jesus came and stood among them, and said: “Peace be with you.”
Then he said to Thomas: “Place your finger here, and look at my hands; and place your hand here, and put it into my side; and do not refuse to believe, but believe.”
And Thomas exclaimed: “My Master, and my God!”
“Is it because you have seen me that you have believed?”said Jesus. “Blessed are they who have not seen, and yet have believed!”
There were many other signs of his mission that Jesus gave in presence of the disciples, which are not recorded in this book;
but these have been recorded so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God — and that, through your belief in his name, you may have life.