And Moses gathered all the congregation of the sons of Israel together and said to them, These are the words which the LORD has commanded, to do them.
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be to you a holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD. Whoever does work in it shall be put to death.
You shall kindle no fire throughout your living places upon the Sabbath day.
And Moses spoke to all the congregation of the sons of Israel saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded. He said,
Take from among you an offering to the LORD. Whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD: gold, and silver, and bronze,
and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and bleached linen, and goats' hair,
and rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and acacia-wood,
and oil for the light, and spices for anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,
and onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breast-pocket.
And every wise-hearted one among you shall come and make all that the LORD has commanded:
the tabernacle, its tent, its covering, its clasps, and its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets.
And make the ark and the staves of it, the mercy-seat, and the veil of the covering,
the table, and its staves, and all its vessels, and showbread,
also the lampstand for the light, and its vessels, and its lamp, with the oil for the light,
and the incense altar, and its staves, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging of the door at the entering in of the tabernacle.
And make the altar of burnt offering, with its bronze grate, its staves, and all its vessels, the laver and its base,
the hangings of the court, its pillars and their sockets, and the hanging, for the door of the court,
the pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court, and their cords,
the woven garments to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office.
And all the congregation of the sons of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whom His spirit made willing. They brought the LORD's offering to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all His service, and for the holy garments.
And the men came in together with the women, as many as were willing-hearted, bringing bracelets and earrings, and rings and ornaments, all jewels of gold. And everyone who offered waved a wave offering of gold to the LORD.
And everyone with whom was found blue, and purple, and scarlet, and bleached linen, and goats' hair, and red skins of rams, and badgers' skins, brought them.
Everyone lifting up an offering of silver and bronze brought the LORD's offering. And everyone with whom was found acacia-wood for any work of the service, brought it.
And every wise-hearted woman spun with her hands. And they brought spun yarn, blue, and purple, scarlet, and bleached linen.
And all the women whose hearts were lifted up in wisdom spun goats' hair.
And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod and for the breast-pocket.
And they brought spice and oil, for the light and for the anointing oil and for the sweet incense.
The sons of Israel brought a willing offering to the LORD, every man and woman whose heart made them willing to bring for all kinds of work which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of Moses.
And Moses said to the sons of Israel, See, the LORD has called the son of Uri the son of Hur, by the name Bezaleel, of the tribe of Judah.
And He has filled him with the spirit of God in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of work,
and to devise designs, to work in gold, and in silver, and in bronze,
and in the cutting of stones to set, and in carving of wood, to make any kind of skillful work.
And He has put in his heart that he may teach, he and Aholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
He has filled them with wisdom of heart to work all kinds of work; of the smith, and of the skillful worker, and of the embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in bleached linen, and of the weaver, of those who do any work, and of those who work out artful work.