The sons of Levi, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And, the sons of Kohath, Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
And, the children of Amram, Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam,—and, the sons of Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Eleazar, begat Phinehas, Phinehas, begat Abishua;
and, Abishua, begat Bukki, and, Bukki, begat Uzzi;
and, Uzzi, begat Zerahiah, and, Zerahiah, begat Meraioth;
Meraioth, begat Amariah, and, Amariah, begat Ahitub;
and, Ahitub, begat Zadok, and, Zadok, begat Ahimaaz;
and, Ahimaaz, begat Azariah, and, Azariah, begat Johanan,
and, Johanan, begat Azariah,—he, it was who ministered as priest, in the house which Solomon built in Jerusalem;
and Azariah begat Amariah,—and, Amariah, begat Ahitub;
and, Ahitub, begat Zadok, and, Zadok, begat Shallum;
and, Shallum, begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah, begat Azariah;
and, Azariah, begat Seraiah, and, Seraiah, begat Jehozadak;
and, Jehozadak, departed, when Yahweh carried away Judah and Jerusalem into captivity,—by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
The sons of Levi, Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
And, these, are the names of the sons of Gershom, Libni and Shimei.
And, the sons of Kohath, were Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
The sons of Merari, Mahli and Mushi. And, these, are the families of Levi by their fathers:
To Gershom, pertained Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
The sons of Kohath, Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son;
Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son;
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
And, the sons of Elkanah, Amasai, and Ahimoth.
As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah, Zophai his son, and Nahath his son;
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
And, the sons of Samuel, the firstborn, [Joel], and, the second, Abiah.
the sons of Merari, Mahli,—Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son;
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
And, these, are they whom David caused to stand, as the servants of song, in the house of Yahweh, when he had given rest unto the ark;
so they became attendants before the habitation of the tent of meeting, with song, until Solomon built the house of Yahweh, in Jerusalem,—and they took their stand according to their prescribed manner over their work.
Yea, these, are they who stood, with their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites, Heman the singer, son of Joel, son of Samuel,
son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,—
son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai:—
son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,—
son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah;—
son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel.
And, his brother Asaph who stood on his right hand, Asaph son of Berechiah, son of Shimea,—
son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchijah,—
son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah;—
son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei,—
son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
And, the sons of Merari, their brethren, on the left hand, Ethan son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch;—
son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah,—
son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer;—
son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi.
Howbeit, their brethren, the Levites, were given, for all the work of the habitation, of the house of God.
But, Aaron and his sons, were to make perfume upon the altar of ascending-sacrifice, and upon the altar of incense, according to all the service of the holy of holies,—even for putting a propitiatory-covering over Israel, according go all that, Moses, the servant of God, commanded.
And, these, are the sons of Aaron,—Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,—
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,—
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,—
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
And, these, are their dwelling-places, according to their encampments, in their boundary,—pertaining to the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites, for, theirs, was the lot:
so they gave them Hebron, in the land of Judah, and the pasture lands thereof, round about it;
but, the field-land of the city, and the villages thereof, gave they to Caleb son of Jephunneh.
And, to the sons of Aaron, gave they, the cities of refuge—Hebron, and Libnah, with her pasture lands,—and Jattir and Eshtemoa, with her pasture lands;
and Hilen with her pasture lands, Debir, with her pasture lands;
and Ashan, with her pasture lands, and Bethshemesh, with her pasture lands;
and, out of the tribe of Benjamin, Geba, with her pasture lands, and Allemeth, with her pasture lands,—and Anathoth, with her pasture lands;—all their cities, were thirteen cities, throughout their families.
And, unto the rest of the sons of Kohath—of the families of the tribe of Ephraim and of the tribe of Dan, and of the half-tribe of Manasseh, by lot ten cities.
And, to the sons of Gershom, by their families—out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
And, unto sons of Merari, by their families—out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, by lot twelve cities.
So then the sons of Israel gave, to the Levites,—the cities and the pasture lands thereof;
yea they gave, by lot, out of the tribe of the sons of Judah, and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities which are mentioned by name.
But, as for some of the families of the sons of Kohath, they had the cities of their lot, out of the tribe of Ephraim;
and they gave unto them the cities of refuge—Shechem and her pasture lands, in the hill country of Ephraim,—and Gezer, with her pasture lands;
and Jokmeam, with her pasture lands, and Beth-heron, with her pasture lands;
and Aijalon, with her pasture lands, and Gath-rimmon, with her pasture lands;
and, out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner, with her pasture lands, and Bileam, with her pasture lands,—for the rest of the family of the sons of Kohath.
Unto the sons of Gershom—out of the family of the half tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan, with her pasture lands,—and Ashtaroth, with her pasture lands.
And, out of the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh, with her pasture lands,—Daberath, with her pasture lands;
and Ramoth, with her pasture lands, and Anem, with her pasture lands.
And, out of the tribe of Asher, Mashal, with her pasture lands,—and Abdon, with her pasture lands;
and Hukok, with her pasture lands,—and Rehob, with her pasture lands.
And, out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee, with her pasture lands, and Hammon, with her pasture lands,—and Kiryathaim, with her pasture lands.
Unto the rest of the sons of Merari—out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmono, with her pasture lands,—Tabor, with her pasture lands.
And, beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east of the Jordan—out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness, with her pasture lands,—and Jahzah, with her pasture lands;
and Kedemoth, with her pasture lands, and Mephaath, with her pasture lands.
And, out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead, with her pasture lands,—and Mahanaim, with her pasture lands;
and Heshbon, with her pasture lands, and Jazer, with her pasture lands.