And looking up, He saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury.
And He also saw a certain poor widow casting two lepta in there.
And He said, Truly I say to you that this poor widow has cast in more than all of them.
For all these have cast in to the offerings of God from their abundance, but out of her poverty she has cast in all the living she had.
And as some spoke of the temple, how it was adorned with beautiful stones and gifts, He said,
As to these things which you see, days will come in which there shall not be left a stone on a stone, which shall not be thrown down.
And they asked Him, saying, Teacher, but when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign when these things are about to take place?
And He said, Take heed that you are not deceived, for many shall come in My name, saying, I AM! Also, The time has come! Do not go after them.
But when you hear of wars and disturbances, do not be terrified, for all these things must first occur, but the end is not at once.
And He said to them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.
And great earthquakes shall be in different places, and famines and plagues. And there shall be terrors and great signs from Heaven.
But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for My name's sake.
And it shall return to you for a testimony.
Therefore settle it in your hearts not to meditate beforehand what you shall answer.
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.
And you shall be betrayed also by parents and brothers and kinsmen and friends. And they will cause some of you to be put to death.
And you shall be hated by all for My name's sake.
But there shall not a hair of your head perish.
By your patience you will gain your souls.
And when you see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that its destruction has come.
And let those in Judea flee to the mountains. And those in its midst, let them go out. And those in the open spaces, let them not go into her.
For these are the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
But woe to those who are with child, and to those suckling in those days! For there shall be great distress in the land and wrath on this people.
And they shall fall by the sword's edge. And shall be led away captive into all nations. And Jerusalem shall be trodden down by the nations until the times of the nations is fulfilled.
And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars. And on the earth will be anxiety of nations with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring;
men fainting from fear, and expecting those things which have come on the earth. For the powers of the heavens shall be shaken.
And then they shall see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
And when these things begin to happen, then look up and lift up your heads, for your redemption draws near.
And He spoke a parable to them: Behold the fig-tree and all the trees.
Now when they sprout leaves, seeing it you will know that summer is now near.
So also, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near.
Truly I say to you, This generation shall not pass away until all these things are fulfilled.
The heaven and the earth shall pass away, but My words shall not pass away.
And take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts are weighed down with headaches and drinking and anxieties of this life; and that day should suddenly come on you;
for it shall come as a snare on all those sitting on the face of the whole earth.
Watch therefore, praying in every season that you may be counted worthy to escape all these things which shall occur, and to stand before the Son of man.
And in the days He was teaching in the temple. And in the nights He went out, and lodged in the mount called the Mount of Olives.
And all the people came early in the morning to Him in the temple, in order to hear Him.