Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter into the sheepfold by the door, but going up by another way, that one is a thief and a robber.
But he who enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
The doorkeeper opens to him, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
And when he puts forth his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him. For they know his voice.
And they will not follow a stranger, but will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers.
Jesus spoke this parable to them, but they did not understand what it was which He spoke to them.
Then Jesus said to them again, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them.
I am the door. If anyone enters in by Me, he shall be saved and shall go in and out and find pasture.
The thief does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come so that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.
I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.
But he who is a hireling and not the shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and runs away. And the wolf catches them and scatters the sheep.
The hireling flees, because he is a hireling and does not care for the sheep.
I am the Good Shepherd, and I know those that are Mine, and I am known by those who are Mine.
Even as the Father knows Me, I also know the Father. And I lay down My life for the sheep.
And I have other sheep who are not of this fold. I must also lead those, and they shall hear My voice, and there shall be one flock, one Shepherd.
Therefore My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life so that I might take it again.
No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down from Myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it again. I have received this commandment from My Father.
Then a division occurred again among the Jews because of these words.
And many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why do you hear him?
Others said, These are not words of one who has been possessed by a demon. A demon is not able to open the eyes of blind ones.
And the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem, and it was winter.
And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's Porch.
Then the Jews encircled Him and said to Him, How long do you make us doubt? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.
Jesus answered them, I told you and you did not believe. The works that I do in My Father's name, they bear witness of Me.
But you did not believe because you are not of My sheep. As I said to you,
My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me.
And I give to them eternal life, and they shall never ever perish, and not anyone shall pluck them out of My hand.
My Father who gave them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to pluck them out of My Father's hand.
I and the Father are one!
Then the Jews took up stones again to stone Him.
Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from My Father; for which of these do you stone Me?
The Jews answered Him, saying, We do not stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy, and because you, being a man, make yourself God.
Jesus answered them, Has it not written in your law, "I said, You are gods?"
If He called those gods with whom the Word of God was, and the Scripture cannot be broken,
do you say of Him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, You blaspheme, because I said, I am the Son of God?
If I do not do the works of My Father, do not believe Me.
But if I do, though you do not believe Me, believe the works so that you may know and believe that the Father is in Me, and I in Him.
Then they again sought to seize Him, but He went forth out of their hand.
And He went away again beyond Jordan into the place where John baptized at the first, and He stayed there.
And many came to Him and said, John indeed did no miracle, but all things that John said concerning this One were true.
And many believed on Him there.