El, Elohim, Yahweh, hath spoken, and culled the earth, From the rising of the sun, unto the going in thereof:
Out of Zion the perfection of beauty, God, hath shone forth.
Let our God come, and let him not keep silence! A fire—before him, shall devour, And, around him, hath it become exceeding tempestuous:
He calleth, Unto the heavens above, And unto the earth, That he may judge his people.
Gather yourselves unto me—ye my men of lovingkindness, Who have solemnised my covenant over sacrifice.
Now have the heavens declared his righteousness, Because, God, is, about to judge. [Selah.]
Hear, O my people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will adjure thee, God, thine own God, I am:—
Not, for thy sacrifices, will I reprove thee, Nor for thine ascending-offerings, before me continually:
I will not take out of thy house—a bullock, Nor out of thy folds—he-goats;
For, mine, is every wild-beast of the forest, The cattle on the mountains, in their thousands;
I know every bird of the mountains, And, the moving things of the plain, are with me:
If I were hungry, I would not tell thee, For, mine, is the world, and the fulness thereof.
Will I eat the flesh of mighty oxen? Or, the blood of he-goats, will I drink?
Sacrifice to God a thankoffering, And pay to the Most High thy vows;
Call upon me, then, in the day of distress, I will deliver thee, that thou mayest glorify me.
But, to the lawless one, God saith, What hast, thou, to do, to recount my statutes? Or that thou hast taken up my covenant upon thy mouth?
Seeing that, thou, hast hated correction, And hast cast my words behind thee;
If thou sawest a thief, then didst thou run with him,—And, with adulterers, hath been thy chosen life;
Thy mouth, hast thou thrust into wickedness, And, thy tongue, kept weaving deceit;
Thou wouldst sit down—Against thine own brother, wouldst thou speak, Against thine own mother’s son, wouldst thou expose a fault:—
These things, hast thou done, and I have kept silence, Thou thoughtest that I should really be like thyself, I will convict thee, yea I will set [thine offences] in order before thine eyes.
Understand this, I pray you, ye forgetters of GOD, Lest I tear in pieces, and there be none to deliver:—
He that sacrificeth a thankoffering, will glorify me,—And will prepare a way by which I may show him the salvation of God.