A Psalme of David. Fret not thy selfe because of the wicked men, neither be enuious for the euill doers.
For they shall soone bee cut downe like grasse, and shall wither as the greene herbe.
Trust thou in the Lord and do good: dwell in the land, and thou shalt be fed assuredly.
And delite thy selfe in the Lord, and hee shall giue thee thine hearts desire.
Commit thy way vnto the Lord, and trust in him, and he shall bring it to passe.
And he shall bring foorth thy righteousnes as the light, and thy iudgement as the noone day.
Waite patiently vpon the Lord and hope in him: fret not thy selfe for him which prospereth in his way: nor for the man that bringeth his enterprises to passe.
Cease from anger, and leaue off wrath: fret not thy selfe also to doe euill.
For euill doers shalbe cut off, and they that wait vpon the Lord, they shall inherite the land.
Therefore yet a litle while, and the wicked shall not appeare, and thou shalt looke after his place, and he shall not be found.
But meeke men shall possesse the earth, and shall haue their delite in the multitude of peace.
The wicked practiseth against the iust, and gnasheth his teeth against him.
But the Lord shall laugh him to scorne: for he seeth, that his day is comming.
The wicked haue drawen their sworde, and haue bent their bowe, to cast downe the poore and needie, and to slay such as be of vpright conuersation.
But their sword shall enter into their owne heart, and their bowes shalbe broken.
A small thing vnto the iust man is better, then great riches to the wicked and mightie.
For the armes of the wicked shall be broken: but the Lord vpholdeth the iust men.
The Lord knoweth the dayes of vpright men, and their inheritance shall bee perpetuall.
They shall not be confounded in the perilous time, and in the daies of famine they shall haue ynough.
But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord shall be consumed as the fatte of lambes: euen with the smoke shall they consume away.
The wicked boroweth and payeth not againe. but the righteous is mercifull, and giueth.
For such as be blessed of God, shall inherite the lande, and they that be cursed of him, shalbe cut off.
The pathes of man are directed by the Lord: for he loueth his way.
Though he fall, hee shall not be cast off: for the Lord putteth vnder his hand.
I haue beene yong, and am olde: yet I sawe neuer the righteous forsaken, nor his seede begging bread.
But hee is euer mercifull and lendeth, and his seede enioyeth the blessing.
Flee from euill and doe good, and dwell for euer.
For the Lord loueth iudgement, and forsaketh not his Saintes: they shall be preserued for euermore: but the seede of the wicked shall be cut off.
The righteous men shall inherit the lande, and dwell therein for euer.
The mouth of the righteous will speake of wisedome, and his tongue will talke of iudgement.
For the Lawe of his God is in his heart, and his steppes shall not slide.
The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.
But the Lord wil not leaue him in his hand, nor condemne him, when he is iudged.
Waite thou on the Lord, and keepe his way, and he shall exalt thee, that thou shalt inherite the lande: when the wicked men shall perish, thou shalt see.
I haue seene the wicked strong, and spreading himselfe like a greene bay tree.
Yet he passed away, and loe, he was gone, and I sought him, but he could not be founde.
Marke the vpright man, and beholde the iust: for the end of that man is peace.
But the transgressours shall be destroyed together, and the ende of the wicked shall bee cut off.
But the saluation of the righteous men shalbe of the Lord: he shalbe their strength in the time of trouble.
For the Lord shall helpe them, and deliuer them: he shall deliuer them from the wicked, and shall saue them, because they trust in him.