As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honor is not seemly for a fool.
As the sparrow in her wandering, as the swallow in her flying, so the curse that is causeless does not alight.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools.
Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like to him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
He who sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off the feet, and drinks injury.
The legs of a lame man hang loose. So is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
As he who binds a stone in a sling, so is he who gives honor to a fool.
As a thorn that goes up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
As an archer who wounds all, so is he who hires a fool, and he who hires those who pass by.
As a dog who returns to his vomit, is a fool who repeats his folly.
See thou a man wise in his own conceit? There is more hope for a fool than of him.
The sluggard says, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.
The door turns upon its hinges, so does the sluggard upon his bed.
The sluggard buries his hand in the dish. It wearies him to bring it again to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men who can render a reason.
He who passes by, and meddles with strife not his, is like he who takes a dog by the ears.
As a madman who casts firebrands, arrows, and death,
so is the man who deceives his neighbor, and says, Am I not in sport?
For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, contention ceases.
As coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man to inflame strife.
The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts.
Fervent lips and a wicked heart are an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross.
He who hates masquerades with his lips, but he lays up deceit within him.
When he speaks graciously, believe him not, for there are seven abominations in his heart.
Though his hatred cover itself with guile, his wickedness shall be openly shown before the assembly.
He who digs a pit shall fall in it, and he who rolls a stone, it shall return upon him.
A lying tongue hates those whom it has wounded, and a flattering mouth works ruin.