And the life of Sarah was a hundred and twenty seven years, the years of the life of Sarah.
And Sarah died in Kirjatharba, it is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. And Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her.
And Abraham rose up from before his dead and spoke to the sons of Heth, saying,
I am an alien and a visitor with you. Give to me a possession among you, so that I may bury my dead from before the eyes.
And the sons of Heth answered Abraham, saying to him,
Hear us, my lord. You are a prince among us. Bury your dead in the best of our burying places. Not a man of us will withhold his burying place from you, from burying your dead.
And Abraham rose up and bowed himself to the people of the land, to the sons of Heth.
And he spoke with them, saying, If it is your desire to bury my dead from before the eyes, hear me. Ask for me of Ephron the son of Zohar,
that he may give to me the cave of Machpelah which he has, which is in the edge of his field. In full silver let him give it to me among you, for a possession of a burying place.
And Ephron was sitting among the sons of Heth. And Ephron the Hittite replied to Abraham in the ears of the sons of Heth, to all those entering the gate of his city, saying,
No, my lord, hear me. I have given the field to you; also the cave that is in it. I have given it to you. Before the eyes of the sons of my people I have given it to you. Bury your dead.
And Abraham bowed before the people of the land,
and spoke to Ephron in the ears of the people of the land, saying, Only if you would hear me. I have given the silver for the field; take it from me, that I may bury my dead there.
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him,
My lord, hear me; the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that between me and you? And bury your dead.
And Abraham listened to Ephron, and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver of which he had spoken in the ears of the sons of Heth, four hundred silver shekels which passes with the merchant.
And was certified the field of Ephron in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the cave and the field in it, and all the trees in the field, which were in all its borders around it,
to Abraham for a purchase before the sons of Heth, with all entering the gate of his city.
And after this Abraham buried his wife Sarah at the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre; it is Hebron, in the land of Canaan.
And the field was certified, and the cave in it, to Abraham for a burial possession from the sons of Heth.