Therefore, Christ having suffered for us in the flesh, also you arm yourselves with the same thought, that he suffering in the flesh has been made to rest from sin,
for him no longer to live in the lusts of men, but to live the remaining time in the flesh in the will of God.
For the time of life having passed is sufficient for us to have worked out the will of the nations, having gone on in wantonness, lusts, drunkenness, parties, carousings, and unlawful idolatries;
in which they are surprised, you not running with them into the same overflow of unsavedness, blaspheming;
who will give account to Him having readiness to judge the living and dead.
For to this end also the gospel was preached to the dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but might live according to God in the Spirit.
But the end of all things has drawn near. Be of sound mind, then, and be sensible to prayers;
and above all things having fervent love to yourselves, "because love will cover a multitude of sins." Prov. 10:12
Be hospitable to one another without murmurings,
each one as he received a gift, ministering it to yourselves as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
If anyone speaks, let it be as the words of God; if anyone ministers, as by strength which God supplies, that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ; to whom is the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
Beloved, do not be astonished at the fiery trial happening among you for your testing, as if a surprise were occurring to you;
but according as you share the sufferings of Christ, rejoice; so that you may rejoice exultingly at the revelation of His glory.
If you are reviled in the name of Christ, you are blessed, because "the Spirit of God and of glory rests on you." Truly, according to them, He is blasphemed; but according to you, He is glorified. Isa. 11:2
For do not let any of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler in the affairs of others.
But if one suffers as a Christian, do not let him be ashamed, but to glorify God in this respect.
Because the time has come to begin the judgment from the house of God; and if firstly from us, what will be the end of the ones disobeying the gospel of God?
And "if the righteous is scarcely saved, where will the ungodly and sinner appear?" Prov. 11:31
So as indeed the ones suffering according to God's will, as to a faithful Creator, let them commit their souls in well-doing.