And Paul, looking steadfastly, at the High-council, said—Brethren! I, in all good conscience have used my citizenship for God until this day.
And, the High-priest, Ananias, ordered them that stood by him, to be smiting him on the mouth.
Then, Paul, unto him, said—God is about to be smiting thee, thou whited wall! Dost, thou, then sit to judge me according to the law, and, unlawfully, orderest me to be smitten?
And, they who stood by, said—The High-priest of God, dost thou revile?
And Paul said—I was not aware, brethren, that he was high-priest; because it is written—Of a ruler of thy people, shalt thou not speak injuriously.
But Paul, getting to know that, the one part, were Sadducees and, the other, Pharisees, began to cry aloud in the council—Brethren! I, am, a Pharisee, son of Pharisees:—Concerning a hope, even of a rising again of the dead, am I to be judged.
And, as this he was saying, there arose a dissension of the Pharisees and Sadducees; and rent asunder was the throng.
For, Sadducees, say, there is no rising again, nor messenger, nor spirit, whereas, Pharisees, confess them both.
And there arose a great outcry, and certain of the Scribes of the party of the Pharisees, standing up, began to strive, saying—Nothing bad, find we in this man;—but, if a spirit hath spoken unto him, or a messenger…
And, great dissension arising, the captain, fearing lest Paul would be torn in pieces by them, ordered the troop to go down, and take him by force out of their midst, to bring him into the castle.
But, on the following night, the Lord, standing over him, said—Be of good courage! for, as thou hast fully borne witness of the things concerning me in Jerusalem, so must thou, in Rome also, bear witness.
And, when it became day, the Jews, forming a conspiracy, bound themselves under a curse, saying, that they would neither eat nor drink till they had slain Paul.
And they were, more than forty, who, this sworn-confederacy, had formed.
And they went unto the High-priests and Elders, and said—With a curse have we bound ourselves, to taste, nothing, until we have slain Paul.
Now, therefore, do, ye, with the High-council, make it appear unto the captain, that he should bring him down unto you, as though about to ascertain more exactly the things that concern him; and, we, or ever he come near, are ready to kill him.
But Paul’s sister’s son hearing of the lying-in-wait, happening to be near, and coming into the castle,—reported it unto Paul.
And Paul, calling unto him one of the centurions, said—This young man, lead thou away unto the captain, for he hath somewhat to report unto him.
He, therefore, taking him with him, brought him unto the captain, and saith—The prisoner Paul, calling me unto him, requested me to bring this young man unto thee, as having somewhat to tell thee.
And the captain, taking him by the hand, and going aside, began, privately, to ask—What is it which thou hast to report unto me?
And he said—The Jews, have agreed to request thee, that, to-morrow, thou wouldst bring, Paul, down into the High-council, as though about to ascertain something, more exact, concerning him.
Thou, therefore, do not be persuaded by them, for there are lying in wait for him, from among them, more than forty men,—who, indeed, have bound themselves under a curse, neither to eat nor drink, till they have killed him; and, now, are they ready, awaiting the promise, from thee.
the captain, therefore, dismissed the young man, charging him—Unto no one, divulge thou, that, these things, thou hast shewed unto me.
And calling certain two of the centurions he said—Make ye ready two hundred soldiers, that they may journey as far as Caesarea,—and seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen, by the third hour of the night;
beasts also provide, in order that, seating Paul thereon, they may bring him safely through unto Felix the governor.
And he wrote a letter, after this form:—
Claudius Lysias, unto the most excellent governor Felix, Joy!
This man, having been apprehended by the Jews, and being about to be killed by them, I went down with the troop, and rescued; having learned that he was, a Roman.
And, being minded to find out the cause for which they were accusing him, [I took him down into their High-council],
whom I found to be accused concerning questions of their law, but, of nothing worthy of death or bonds, to be charged.
But, when I was informed there would be a plot against the man, forthwith, I sent him unto thee, charging, his accusers also, to be speaking against him before thee.
So the soldiers, according to their orders, taking up Paul, brought him by night unto Antipatris;
and, on the morrow, leaving the horsemen to go on with him, returned to the castle,—
and the others, entering into Caesarea, and delivering the letter unto the governor, set, Paul also, before him.
And, when he had read it, and asked out of what province he was, and learned that he was from Cilicia,
I myself will hear thee in full, said he, whensoever, thine accusers also, are come; and gave orders that, in the palace of Herod, he should be kept under guard.