To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. I Waited paciently for the Lord, and he inclined vnto me, and heard my cry.
Hee brought mee also out of the horrible pit, out of the myrie clay, and set my feete vpon the rocke, and ordered my goings.
And he hath put in my mouth a new song of praise vnto our God: many shall see it and feare, and shall trust in the Lord.
Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust, and regardeth not the proude, nor such as turne aside to lyes.
O Lord my God, thou hast made thy wonderfull workes so many, that none can count in order to thee thy thoughts toward vs: I would declare, and speake of them, but they are moe then I am able to expresse.
Sacrifice and offering thou didest not desire: (for mine eares hast thou prepared) burnt offring and sinne offering hast thou not required.
Then said I, Lo, I come: for in the rolle of the booke it is written of me,
I desired to doe thy good will, O my God: yea, thy Lawe is within mine heart.
I haue declared thy righteousnesse in the great Congregation: loe, I will not refraine my lippes: O Lord, thou knowest.
I haue not hidde thy righteousnesse within mine heart, but I haue declared thy trueth and thy saluation: I haue not conceiled thy mercy and thy trueth from the great Congregation.
Withdrawe not thou thy tender mercie from mee, O Lord: let thy mercie and thy trueth alway preserue me.
For innumerable troubles haue compassed mee: my sinnes haue taken such holde vpon me, that I am not able to looke vp: yea, they are moe in nomber then the heares of mine head: therefore mine heart hath failed me.
Let it please thee, O Lord, to deliuer mee: make haste, O Lord, to helpe me.
Let them be confounded and put to shame together, that seeke my soule to destroye it: let them be driuen backward and put to rebuke, that desire mine hurt.
Let them be destroyed for a rewarde of their shame, which say vnto me, Aha, aha.
Let all them, that seeke thee, reioyce and be glad in thee: and let them, that loue thy saluation, say alway, The Lord be praysed.
Though I be poore and needie, the Lord thinketh on mee: thou art mine helper and my deliuerer: my God, make no tarying.