And the second lot came out, for Simeon, for the tribe of the sons of Simeon, by their families,—and their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the sons of Judah.
And they had for their inheritance,—Beer-sheba or Sheba, and Moladah,
and Hazar-shual, and Balah, and Ezem,
and Eltolad and Bethul, and Hormah,
and Ziklag and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah,
and Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen,—thirteen cities, with their villages:
Ain, Rimmon, and Ether and Ashan,—four cities, with their villages,
and all the villages that were round about these cities, as far as Baalath-beer, Ramah of the South. This, is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, by their families:
Out of the portion of the sons of Judah, is the inheritance of the sons of Simeon,—for it came to pass that what was allotted to the sons of Judah, was too much for them, therefore did the sons of Simeon receive an inheritance in the midst of their inheritance.
Then came up the third lot, for the sons of Zebulun, by their families,—and the boundary of their inheritance was as far as Sarid.
And their boundary goeth up westward, even towards Maralah, and toucheth Dabbesheth,—and reacheth unto the ravine that faceth Jokneam;
and turneth back from Sarid, eastward, toward the rising of the sun, upon the boundary of Chisloth-tabor,—and goeth out unto Daberath, and ascendeth Japhia;
and, from thence, it passed along in front on the east, towards Gath-hepher, towards Eth-kazin,—and goeth out at Rimmon which turneth about towards Neah;
and the boundary goeth round it, on the north to Hannathon,—and so the extensions thereof are the valley of Iphtah-el;
and Kattath and Nahalal, and Shimron, and Idalah and Beth-lehem,—twelve cities, with their villages.
This, is the inheritance of the sons of Zebulun, by their families,—these cities, with their villages.
For Issachar, came out the fourth lot,—for the sons of Issachar, by their families.
And their boundary was,—Jezreel and Chesulloth, and Shunem,
and Hapharaim and Shion, and Anaharath,
and Rabbith and Kishion, and Ebez,
and Remeth, and En-gannim, and Enhaddah, and Beth-pazzez;
and the boundary toucheth Tabor and Shahazumah, and Beth-shemesh, and so the extensions of their boundary are to the Jordan,—sixteen cities, with their villages.
This, is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, by their families,—the cities, with their villages.
Then came out the fifth lot, for the tribe of the sons of Asher, by their families.
And their boundary was,—Helkath and Hali, and Beten and Achshaph,
and Allam-melech and Amad, and Mishal,—and it toucheth Carmel to the west, and Shihor-libnath;
and it turneth toward sun-rise—to Beth-dagon, and toucheth Zebulun and the valley of Iphtah-el northward, and Beth-emek, and Neiel; and goeth out unto Cabul, on the left,
and Ebron and Rehob, and Hammon and Kanah,—as far as Zidon the populous;
and the boundary turneth to Ramah, and as far as the city of the fortress of Tyre,—then the boundary turneth to Hosah, and so the extensions thereof are, on the west, from Hebel to Achzib;
Ummah also and Aphek, and Rehob,—twenty-two cities, with their villages,
This, is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Asher, by their families,—these cities, with their villages.
For the sons of Naphtali, came out the sixth lot,—for the sons of Naphtali, by their families.
And their boundary was from Heleph, from the terebinth of Bezaannim, and Adami-nekeb, and Jabneel, as far as Lakkum; and so the extensions thereof were to the Jordan;
and the boundary turneth westward, to Aznoth-tabor, and goeth out from thence, toward Hukkok,—and toucheth Zebulun on the south, and, Asher, it toucheth on the west, and Judah, at the Jordan towards sunrise.
And, the fortified cities, are,—Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath and Chinnereth,
and Adamah and Ramah, and Hazor,
and Kedesh and Edrei, and En-hazor,
and Iron and Migdal-el, Horem and Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh,—nineteen cities, with their villages.
This, is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, by their families,—the cities, with their villages.
And, for the tribe of the sons of Dan, by their families, came out the seventh lot.
And the boundary of their inheritance was,—Zorah and Eshtaol, and Ir-shemesh,
and Shaalabbin and Aijalon, and Ithlah,
and Elon and Timnah, and Ekron,
and Eltekeh and Gibbethon, and Baalath,
and Jehud and Beneberak, and Gath-rimmon,
and Me-jarkon, and Rakkon,—with the boundary over against Joppa.
And, when the boundary of the sons of Dan went out beyond these, then went up the sons of Dan and fought against Leshem, and captured it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and took possession thereof, and dwelt therein, and they called Leshem—Dan, after the name of Dan their father,
This, is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Dan, by their families,—these cities, with their villages.
When they had made an end of distributing the land by the boundaries thereof, then gave the sons of Israel an inheritance unto Joshua son of Nun, in their midst:
at the bidding of Yahweh, gave they unto him the city which he asked, even Timnath-serah, in the hill country of Ephraim,—and he built the city and dwelt therein.
These, are the inheritances which Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the ancestral heads distributed for inheritance to the tribes of the sons of Israel, by lot, in Shiloh, before Yahweh, at the entrance of the tent of meeting,—so they made an end of apportioning the land.