Come now, rich ones, weep, howling over your hardships coming on.
Your riches have rotted, and your garments have become moth-eaten.
Your gold and silver have rusted over, and their poison will be a testimony to you, and will eat your flesh as fire. You heaped treasure in the last days.
Behold, the wages of the workmen who have reaped your fields cry out, being kept back by you. And the cries of the ones who have reaped have entered "into the ears of the Lord of Hosts." Isa. 5:9
You lived luxuriously on the earth, and lived in self gratification; you nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter;
you condemned; you murdered the righteous; he does not resist you.
Therefore, brothers, be long-suffering until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being long-suffering over it until it may receive the early and the latter rain.
You also be long-suffering. Set your hearts firmly, because the coming of the Lord has drawn near.
Do not murmur against one another, brothers, that you not be condemned. Behold, the Judge stands before the door.
My brothers, as an example of suffering ill, and of longsuffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
Behold, we call those blessed who endure. You have heard of the patience of Job, and you saw the end of the Lord, "that the Lord is full of tender mercy and pity." Psa. 103:8
But before all things, my brothers, do not swear, neither by the heaven, nor by the earth, nor any other oath. But let your yes be yes, and the no, no, that you may not fall under judgment.
Does anyone suffer ill among you? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him praise in song.
Is any among you sick? Let him call the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
And the prayer of faith will cure those being sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he may have committed sin, it will be forgiven him.
Confess faults to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous one has great strength, having been made effective.
Elijah was a man of like feeling to us, and he prayed in prayer for it not to rain; and it did not rain on the earth three years and six months.
And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth caused its fruit to sprout.
If anyone among you goes astray from the truth, brothers, and anyone turns him back,
know that the one turning a sinner from the error of his way will save the soul from death, and will hide a multitude of sins.