AFTER these things there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Now there is at Jerusalem near the sheep-market a pool, called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porticos.
In these lay a vast multitude of infirm persons, blind, lame, withered, waiting the motion of the water.
For occasionally an angel descended into the pool, and put the water into commotion: he therefore who first stepped in after the commotion of the water became well, under whatever complaint he had laboured.
And there was a certain man there, who had a complaint of thirty years standing.
Jesus seeing him laid there, and knowing that he had been so for a long while, saith to him, Wilt thou be made sound?
The infirm man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is disturbed, to cast me into the pool: but when I am coming, another goeth down before me.
Jesus saith to him, Arise, take up thy bed, and walk.
And instantly the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked away: and that day was the sabbath.
The Jews therefore said to him that was cured, It is the sabbath: it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed.
He answered them, He that made me whole, the same person said to me, Take up thy bed, and walk.
Then they asked him, Who is the man that said to thee, Take up thy bed, and walk?
Now he that was cured knew not who he was: for Jesus had slipped away, a crowd being on the spot.
After these things Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Take care; thou art made whole: sin no more, lest something worse befall thee.
The man went, and informed the Jews, that it was Jesus who had made him whole.
And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to kill him, because he had done these things on the sabbath-day.
Then Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work.
Therefore sought they the more to kill him, because he had not only broken the sabbath, but called God his own Father, setting himself on an equality with God.
Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing by himself, except what he hath seen the Father do: for whatsoever things he doeth, the same and in the same manner doth the Son.
For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things which he himself doeth: and greater works than these will he shew him, that ye may wonder.
For as the Father raiseth the dead, and quickeneth them; so also doth the Son quicken whom he pleases.
For the Father never judgeth any man, but hath committed all judgment to the Son:
in order that all may honour the Son, just as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son, doth not honour the Father who sent him.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, That he that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into judgment; but is passed from death into life.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, yea, it is now, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live.
For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son also to have life in himself;
and hath given him authority also to execute judgment, because he is the Son of man.
Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in which all who are in the graves shall hear his voice,
and they shall come forth; they who have done good actions to the resurrection of life; and they who have been guilty of foul practices, to the resurrection of damnation.
I am not able to perform any thing by myself: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; for I seek not my own will, but the will of my Father who sent me.
If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.
There is another who beareth witness of me, and I know that his witness is true which he witnesseth concerning me.
Ye sent to John, and he bore testimony to the truth.
But I receive not testimony from man: but I speak these things, that ye may believe.
He was a lamp glowing and luminous: and ye were pleased for a time to exult in his light.
But I have a testimony greater than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me that I should fulfil them, these very works which I am doing, they bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me.
And the Father who sent me, himself hath borne witness concerning me. Ye have neither at any time heard his voice, nor seen his form.
And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not.
Search the scriptures; for ye suppose in them ye have eternal life: and these are they which testify of me.
And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.
I receive not glory from men.
But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.
I have come in my Father’s name, and ye receive me not: if another come in his own name, him ye will receive.
How can ye believe, who receiving honour one from another, seek not the honour which cometh from God alone?
Do not suppose that I shall accuse you to my Father: there is one who is accusing you, even Moses, on whom ye place your hope.
For if ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for of me did he write.
But if ye believe not his writings, how will ye believe my words?