EVERY one who believeth that Jesus is the Messiah, is born of God; and every one who loveth him that begat, loveth him also who is begotten by him.
Hereby we know that we love the children of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments.
For this is the love of God, that we should keep his commandments: and his commandments are not burdensome.
Because every one that is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory which overcometh the world, our faith.
Who is he that overcometh the world, except he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is he who came by water and blood, Jesus the Messiah; not by the water only, but by the water and the blood: and the Spirit is the witnessing person, because the Spirit is the truth.
For they are three who bear witness in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these, even the three, are one.
And there are three which bear witness upon earth, the spirit, and the water, and the blood, and the three are for the same one object.
If we receive the testimony of man, the testimony of God is stronger: for this is the testimony of God which he testified concerning his Son.
He that believeth on the Son of God, hath the testimony in himself; he that believeth not God, hath made him a liar, because he hath not believed on the testimony which God testified of his Son.
And this is the testimony, that God hath given life eternal to us; and this life is in his Son.
He that hath the Son, hath this life; and he that hath not the Son of God, hath not this life.
These things have I written to you who believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have life eternal, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God.
And this is the confidence that we have towards him, that whatsoever we ask according to his will, he heareth us.
And if we know that he heareth us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we receive the petitions, which we have requested, from him.
If any person see his brother committing a sin not unto death, he shall request, and God will grant him life for those that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death: I say not that he should request for that.
All unrighteousness is sin; and there is sin not unto death.
We know that every one who is born of God sinneth not; but he that is born of God preserveth himself, and the wicked one toucheth him not.
We know that we are of God, and the whole world is under the power of that wicked one.
But we know that the Son of God hath come, and hath given to us understanding, that we might know the true God; and we are in him that is true, in his Son Jesus the Messiah. HE is the true God, and the life eternal.
My dear children, guard yourselves against idols. Amen. \p