And Yahweh spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying unto them:
Speak ye unto the sons of Israel saying,—These are the living things which ye may eat, of all the beasts which are upon the earth:
Whatsoever parteth the hoof and is cloven-footed, and cheweth the cud among beasts, that, may ye eat.
Nevertheless, these, shall ye not eat, of them that chew the cud, and of them that part the hoof,—the camel, because though he, cheweth the cud, yet, the hoof, he parteth not, unclean, he is to you;
And, the coney, because, though he cheweth the cud, yet, the hoof, he parteth not,—unclean, he is to you;
And the hare, because though she cheweth the cud, yet the hoof, she parteth not,—unclean, she is to you;
And, the swine, because though he parteth the hoof, and is cloven-footed, yet, the cud, he cheweth not,—unclean, he is to you;
Of their flesh, shall ye not eat, and, their carcase, shall ye not touch,—unclean, they are to you.
these, may ye eat, of all that are in the waters,—all that have fins and scales in the waters, in the seas and in the rivers, them, may ye eat.
But, all that have not fins and scales, in the seas and in the rivers, of all that swarm in the waters, and of all the living souls that are in the waters, an abomination, they are unto you;
and an abomination, shall they remain to you,—of their flesh, ye shall not eat, and their carcases, shall ye abhor.
Whatsoever hath not fins and scales in the waters, an abomination, it is unto you.
And, these, shall ye abhor of birds, they shall not be eaten, an abomination, they are,—the eagle, and the ossifrage, and the osprey;
and the vulture, and the falcon, after its kind;
every raven, after its kind;
and the female ostrich, and the male ostrich, and the sea-gull,—and the hawk after its kind;
and the pelican and the gannet, and the bittern;
and the swan and the vomiting pelican and the little vulture;
and the stork, and the parrot, after its kind,—and the mountain-cock and the bat.
Every creeping thing that flieth, that goeth on all-fours, an abomination, it is unto you.
Nevertheless, these, may ye eat, of all creeping things that fly, that go on all-fours,—such as have legs above their feet, to leap therewith, upon the earth—
these of them, may ye eat: the swarming-locust after its kind, and the devouring locust after its kind,—and the chargol-locust after its kind, and the chagab-locust after its kind.
But every [other] creeping thing that flieth, which hath four feet, an abomination, it is unto you;
and, for these, shall ye count yourselves unclean—whosoever toucheth the carcase of them shall be unclean until the evening;
and whosoever beareth away aught of the carcase of them, shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.
As for every kind of beast which, though it parteth the hoof, yet is not cloven-footed nor cheweth the cud, unclean, they are unto you,—every one who toucheth them shall be unclean.
And, all that go upon their paws, among all the living things that go on all-fours, unclean, they are unto you,—whoso toucheth the carcase of them, shall be unclean until the evening.
And, he that beareth away the carcase of them shall wash his clothes, and shall be unclean until the evening,—unclean, they are unto you.
And, these, unto you, shall be unclean, among the creeping things that creep upon the earth,—the weasel and the mouse, and the lizard after its kind;
and the ferret and the chameleon and the wall-lizard,—and the winding lizard, and the mole.
These, are they which are unclean to you among all that creep,—whosoever toucheth them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening;
and, everything whereon any of them shall fall when they are dead shall be unclean—of any articles of wood, or cloth, or skin, or sackcloth, any article wherewith any work is done,—shall be put in water and shall be unclean until the evening, and then be clean,
And, as for any earthen vessel whereinto any of them may fall, everything therein shall be unclean, and, the vessel itself, shall ye break in pieces.
Of all the food that may be eaten, that whereon shall come water, shall be unclean,—and, all drink which might be drunk in any [such] vessel, shall be unclean.
And, everything whereon shall fall any part of the carcase of them shall be unclean, oven or fire-range, it shall be destroyed, unclean, they are,—and, unclean, Shall they remain to you.
Notwithstanding, a fountain or cistern wherein is a gathering of waters shall be clean,—but, he that toucheth the carcase of them shall be unclean.
And when any part of the carcase of them shall fall upon seed for sowing, which is to be sown, the same is, clean.
But, when water shall be put upon seed, and there shall fall thereon any part of the carcase of them, unclean, it is to you.
And, when any of the beasts which are yours for food shall die, he that toucheth the carcase of it shall be unclean until the evening.
And, he that eateth of the carcase of it, shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening,—he also that carrieth away the carcase thereof shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.
And, any creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, an abomination, it is—it shall not be eaten.
Everything that goeth upon the belly, and everything that goeth upon all-fours, even to everything having many feet, as regardeth any creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, ye shall not eat them for, an abomination, they are.
Do not make your persons abominable, with any creeping thing that creepeth,—neither shall ye make yourselves unclean with them, that ye should become unclean thereby.
For, I—Yahweh, am your God, therefore shall ye hallow yourselves and remain holy; for, holy, am, I,—therefore shall ye not make your persons unclean, with any creeping thing that crawleth upon the earth;
for, I—Yahweh, am he that brought you up out of the land of Egypt, that I might become your God,—therefore shall ye be holy, for, holy, am, I.
This, is the law of beast and of bird, and of every living soul that moveth in the waters,—and as to every soul that creepeth upon the earth:
That ye may make a difference—between the unclean and the clean,—and between the living thing that may be eaten, and the living thing which may not be eaten.