Be quiet before Me, O coasts; and let peoples renew their power. They come near; then they speak: Let us draw near together for judgment.
Who raised up the righteous one from the east? He called him to His foot; He gives nations before him, and subdues kings; He gives them as dust to his sword, as driven stubble to his bow;
He pursues them; he passes on in peace; he does not go by the way with his feet.
Who has planned and done it , calling forth the generations from the beginning? I Jehovah am the first and the last; I am He.
The coasts have seen and fear; the ends of the earth tremble; they have drawn near; yea, they come.
Each man helps his neighbor, and says to his brother, Be strong.
So the carver strengthens the refiner; and he smoothing with the hammer, him who struck the anvil, saying of the soldering, It is good. And he made it strong with nails; it will not totter.
But you Israel are My servant, Jacob whom I have chosen; the seed of My friend Abraham;
whom I have made strong from the ends of the earth, and called you from its sides; and I said to you, You are My servant. I chose you, and have not rejected you .
Do not fear, for I am with you; do not gaze about, for I am your God; I will make you strong; yea, I will help you; yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of My righteousness.
Behold, all who were provoked with you shall be ashamed and confounded; they shall be as nothing; and they who fight with you Shall perish.
You shall seek them and shall not find them; men of your strife shall be as nothing, even men of your battle as ceasing.
For I, Jehovah your God am strengthening your right hand; who says to you, Do not fear; I will help you.
Fear not, worm of Jacob, men of Israel; I will help you; states Jehovah, and your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.
Behold! I have made you a new sharp threshing instrument, a master of teeth; you shall thresh mountains and beat them small, and shall make hills like the chaff.
You shall winnow them, and the wind will carry them away; and the tempest will scatter them. And you shall rejoice in Jehovah; you shall glory in the Holy One of Israel.
The poor and the needy seek water, and there is none; their tongue is parched for thirst. I, Jehovah will hear them; the God of Israel will not leave them.
I will open rivers in bare places, and fountains in the midst of valleys; I will make the desert for a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
I will plant cedar in the wilderness, acacia, and myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set fir, pine and boxwood together in the desert;
So that they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of Jehovah has done this; and the Holy One of Israel has created it.
Bring your cause, says Jehovah; let your strong reasons come near, says the King of Jacob.
Let them draw near and tell us what shall happen; the former things, let them reveal what they are , that we may set our heart and know their end; or declare to us the coming things.
Reveal the near things hereafter, so that we may know that you are gods. Yea, do good, or do evil, that we may gaze and see together.
Behold, you are of nothing; and your work of nothing; he who chooses you is an abomination.
I have raised up one from the north; and he shall come from the east; he will call on My name. And he shall come upon rulers as on mortar, and as a potter tramples clay.
Who has declared from the beginning, that we may know; and beforetime, that we may say, He is right? Yea, no one declares; yea, no one proclaims; yea, there is no one who hears your words.
At first to Zion, I say , Behold! Behold them! And I will give to Jerusalem one bearing tidings.
But I saw, and there was not a man; and of these, there was not a counselor, that I may ask them, and they could answer a word.
Behold, they are all evil; their works are nothing; their images are wind and vanity.