THEN was Jesus led away by the spirit into the wilderness, to be tempted by the devil.
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterwards he became hungry.
And the tempter coming to him said, If thou art the Son of God, command that these stones be made loaves.
But he answering said, It is written, “Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.”
Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and placed him on a wing of the temple,
and saith to him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, “that he shall give his angels a charge concerning thee: and in their hands shall they hold thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.”
Jesus said unto him, It is written again, “Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.”
Again the devil taketh him unto an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory;
and saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall prostrate and worship me.
Then saith Jesus unto him, Avaunt Satan! for it is written, “Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and to him only thou pay divine adoration.”
Then the devil leaveth him, and lo! angels came and ministered unto him.
But when Jesus heard that John was cast into prison, he retired into Galilee;
and leaving Nazareth, he came and resided at Capernaum, a maritime city, on the confines of Zebulun and Nephthali:
that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled, saying,
“The land of Zabulun, and the land of Naphthali, the road to the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles;
the people who sat in darkness saw a great light; and on those who sat in the region and shadow of death, even on them hath the light arisen.”
From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is approaching.
And as Jesus was walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
And he saith to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Then immediately quitting their nets they followed him.
And going on from thence, he saw two other brothers, James son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and he called them.
Then they instantly quitting the ship and their father, followed him.
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every malady among the people.
And there went out a report of him into all Syria: and they brought unto him all who had illness, the afflicted with various diseases and painful complaints, and the demoniacs, and lunatics, and paralytics; and he healed them.
And great multitudes followed him from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judea, and from beyond Jordan.