So all Israel enrolled themselves. And, behold, they were written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was exiled to Babylon for their transgressions.
And the first dwellers who lived in their possessions in their cities were the Israelites, the priests, Levites, and the temple slaves.
And in Jerusalem lived of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin, and of the sons of Ephraim and Manasseh:
Uthai, the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, the sons of Pharez, the son of Judah.
And of the Shilonites, Asaiah the first-born and his sons.
And of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their brothers, six hundred and ninety.
And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hasenuah,
and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham; and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri; and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;
and their brothers, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty six. All these men were the heads of the fathers to their fathers' house.
And the priests, Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin,
and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God;
and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchijah; and Maasiai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;
and their brothers, heads to their fathers' house, seventeen hundred and sixty, very able men for the work of the service of the house of God.
And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
and Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Micah, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;
and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites.
And the gatekeepers were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brothers; Shallum being the head.
And until they were at the king's gate eastward; they were gatekeepers in the companies of the sons of Levi.
And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers, of his father's house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of the tabernacle. And their fathers were over the camp of Jehovah, keepers of the entry.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was ruler over them in time past, and Jehovah was with him.
Zechariah of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
All these who were chosen for gatekeepers in the gates were two hundred and twelve. They were in their villages, by their genealogy; they whom David and Samuel the seer had appointed in their faithfulness.
And they and their sons were over the gates of the house of Jehovah, even of the house of the tabernacle, by watches.
The gatekeepers were to the four winds: east, west, north, and south.
And their brothers in their villages were to come in for seven days from time to time with them.
For they were in faithfulness, the four chiefs of the gatekeepers; they were Levites and were over the rooms, and over the treasuries of the house of God.
And they lived around the house of God, for the watch duty was on them; and they were to open it morning by morning.
And certain of them were over the vessels of service, for they brought them by number; and they took them out by number.
And certain of them were appointed over the vessels, even over all the vessels of the sanctuary, and over the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.
And certain of the sons of the priests mixed the mixture for spices.
And Mattithiah of the Levites (he is the first-born to Shallum the Korahite) was first over the work of the pans.
And others of the sons of the Kohathites, from among their brothers, were over the Bread of Arrangement, to prepare sabbath by sabbath.
And these are the singers, heads of fathers to the Levites in the chambers; they were free for they were employed day and night in the work.
These heads of the fathers of the Levites were heads throughout their generation; these lived at Jerusalem.
And in Gibeon lived the father of Gibeon, Jeiel. And his wife's name was Maachah;
and his first-born son was Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
And Mikloth fathered Shimeam; and they also lived with their brothers in Jerusalem, across from their brothers.
And Ner fathered Kish, and Kish fathered Saul, and Saul fathered Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal fathered Micah.
And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea,
and Ahaz fathered Jarah, and Jarah fathered Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri fathered Moza;
and Moza fathered Binea; and Rephaiah was his son; Eleasah, his son; Azel, his son.
And to Azel were six sons, and these their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel.