To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. In You, O LORD, I put my trust; let me never be ashamed; deliver me in Your righteousness.
Bow down Your ear to me; deliver me quickly; be my strong rock, a fortress to save me.
For You are my rock and my fortress; and for Your name's sake lead me and guide me.
Bring me out of the net that they hid for me, for You are my strength.
Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O LORD God of truth.
I have hated those who take heed to lying vanities; but I trust in the LORD.
I will be glad and rejoice in Your mercy; for You have looked on my affliction; You have known my soul in troubles;
and have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a broad place.
Have mercy on me, O LORD, for I am in trouble; my eye has become old with grief, my soul and my belly.
For my life is ending with grief, and my years with sighing; my strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones have wasted away.
I was a reproach among all my foes, but especially among my neighbors, and a fear to my friends; those who saw me outside fled from me.
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind; I am like a broken vessel.
For I have heard the slander of many; fear is on every side; because of their plottings together against me, they planned to take away my life.
But I trusted in You, O LORD; I said, You are my God.
My times are in Your hand; deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.
Make Your face shine on Your servant; save me in Your mercy.
Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called on You; Let the wicked be ashamed; let them be silent in the grave.
Let the lying lips be put to silence; the lips which speak proudly against the righteous, with pride and scorn.
How great is Your goodness, which You have laid up for those who fear You; You have worked for those who trust in You before the sons of men!
You shall hide them in the secrecy of Your presence from the pride of man; You shall hide them in a shelter away from the strife of tongues.
Blessed is the LORD; for He has worked His mercy wondrously in a besieged city.
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before Your eyes; surely You heard the voice of my cries, when I cried to You.
O love the LORD, all you saints of His; the LORD preserves the faithful, and plentifully rewards the proud doer.
Be strong, and He will make your heart stronger, all you who hope in the LORD.