But seeing the crowds, He went up into the mountain, and seating Himself, His disciples came near to Him.
And opening His mouth, He taught them, saying:
Blessed are the poor in spirit! For theirs is the kingdom of the Heavens.
Blessed are they who mourn! For they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek! For they shall inherit the earth. Psa. 37:11
Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteousness! For they shall be filled.
Blessed are the merciful! For they shall obtain mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart! For they shall see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers! For they shall be called sons of God.
Blessed are they who have been persecuted for righteousness' sake! For theirs is the kingdom of Heaven.
Blessed are you when they shall reproach you, and persecute you , and shall say every evil word against you, lying, on account of Me.
Rejoice and leap for joy, for your reward is great in Heaven; for in this way they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt becomes tasteless, with what shall it be salted? For it has strength for nothing any more but to be thrown out and to be trampled under by men.
You are the light of the world. A city situated on a mountain cannot be hidden.
Nor do they light a lamp and put it under the grain measure, but on the lampstand; and it shines for all who are in the house.
So let your light shine before men, so that they may see your good works, and may glorify your Father in Heaven.
Do not think that I came to annul the Law or the Prophets; I did not come to annul, but to fulfill.
Truly I say to you, Until the heaven and the earth pass away, in no way shall one iota or one tittle pass away from the law until all comes to pass.
Therefore, whoever relaxes one of these commandments, the least, and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the kingdom of Heaven. But whoever does and teaches them , this one shall be called great in the kingdom of Heaven.
For I say to you, If your righteousness shall not exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees, in no way shall you go into the kingdom of Heaven.
You have heard that it was said to the ancients: "Do not commit murder!" And, Whoever commits murder shall be liable to the Judgment. Ex. 20:13; Deut. 5:17
But I say to you, Everyone who is angry with his brother without a cause shall be liable to the Judgment. And whoever says to his brother, Raca, shall be liable to the sanhedrin; but whoever says, Fool! shall be liable to be thrown into the fire of Hell.
Therefore, if you offer your gift on the altar, and remember there that your brother has something against you,
leave your gift there before the altar, and go. First, be reconciled to your brother, and then coming, offer your gift.
Be well intentioned toward your opponent quickly, while you are in the way with him, that the opponent not deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be thrown into prison.
Truly, I say to you, In no way shall you come out from there until you pay the last kodrantes.
You have heard that it was said to the ancients: "Do not commit adultery." Ex. 20:14; Deut. 5:18
But I say to you, Everyone looking at a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
But if your right eye offends you, take it out and throw it from you, for it is profitable to you that one of your members should perish and all your body not be thrown into Hell.
And if your right hand causes you to offend, cut it off and throw it from you, for it is profitable to you that one of your members should perish and all your body not be thrown into Hell.
It was also said, Whoever puts away his wife, "let him give her a bill of divorce." Deut. 24:1
But I say to you, Whoever puts away his wife, apart from a matter of fornication, causes her to commit adultery. And who ever shall marry the one put away commits adultery.
Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients: "You shall not swear falsely, but shall give your oaths to the Lord." Lev. 19:12; Num. 30:2
But I say to you, Do not swear at all, neither by Heaven, because it is God's throne; Isa. 66:1
nor by the earth, because it is the footstool of His feet; nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King. Isa. 66:1; Psa. 48:2
Nor shall you swear by your head, because you are not able to make one hair white or black.
But let your word be Yes, yes; No, no. For whatever is more than these is from evil.
You have heard that it was said: "An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth;" Ex. 21:24; Lev. 24:20; Deut. 19:21
but I say to you, Do not resist the evil; but whoever strikes you on the right cheek, turn the other to him also.
And to him desiring to sue you, and to take your tunic, allow him also to have the coat.
And whoever shall compel you to go one mile, go two with him.
He asking you to give, and he wishing to borrow from you, do not turn away.
You have heard that it was said, "You shall love your neighbor" and hate your enemy; Lev. 19:18
but I say to you, Love your enemies; bless those cursing you, do well to those hating you; and pray for those abusing and persecuting you,
so that you may become sons of your Father in Heaven. Because He causes the sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and unjust.
For if you love those loving you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax-collectors do the same?
And if you only greet your brothers, what exceptional thing do you do? Do not the tax-collectors do so?
Therefore, you be perfect even as your Father in Heaven is perfect.