Then Job answered and said,
O that my grief were but weighed, and all my calamity laid in the balances!
For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas. Therefore my words have been rash.
For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison of which my spirit drinks up. The terrors of God set themselves in array against me.
Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass? Or the ox moo over his fodder?
Can that which has no savor be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?
My soul refuses to touch them. They are as loathsome food to me.
O that I might have my request, and that God would grant me the thing that I long for!
Even that it would please God to crush me, that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!
And be it still my consolation, yea, let me exult (in pain that does not spare), that I have not denied the words of the Holy One.
What is my strength that I should wait? And what is my end that I should be patient?
Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh of brass?
Is it not that I have no help in me, and that wisdom is driven quite from me?
To him who is ready to faint, kindness should be from his friend, even to him who forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
My brothers have dealt deceitfully as a brook, as the channel of brooks that pass away,
which are black because of the ice, in which the snow hides itself.
What time they grow warm, they vanish. When it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.
The caravans that travel by the way of them turn aside. They go up into the waste, and perish.
The caravans of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for them.
They were put to shame because they had hoped. They came there, and were confounded.
For now ye are nothing. Ye see a terror, and are afraid.
Did I say, Give to me? Or, Offer a present for me from your substance?
Or, Deliver me from the adversary's hand? Or, Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors?
Teach me, and I will be quiet. And cause me to understand how I have erred.
How forcible are words of uprightness! But your reproof, what does it reprove?
Do ye think to reprove words, seeing that the speeches of a man who is desperate are as wind?
Yea, ye would cast lots upon the fatherless, and make merchandise of your friend.
Now therefore be pleased to look upon me, for truly I shall not lie to your face.
Return, I pray you, let there be no injustice. Yea, return again, my cause is righteous.
Is there injustice on my tongue? Cannot my taste discern mischievous things?