And Job answered and said,
Oh that my grief were but weighed, and my ruin laid in the balances together!
For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea; therefore my words have been rash.
For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, their fury is drinking my spirit; the terrors of God are set against me.
Does the wild ass bray when he has grass? Or does the ox low over his fodder?
Can that which has no taste be eaten without salt? Or is there taste in the white of an egg?
My soul refuses to touch them; they are sickening food to me.
Oh that I might have my desire, and that God would grant the thing that I long for!
Even that it would please God to destroy me; that He would loose His hand and cut me off!
And it is yet my comfort; yea, I would rejoice in pain, though He did not spare me; for I have not hidden the words of the Holy One.
What is my strength, that I should hope? And what is my end, that I should be patient?
Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh bronze?
Is not my help in me? And is wisdom fully driven away from me?
To him who is afflicted, pity is due from his friend, but he forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
My brothers have dealt deceitfully as a torrent; they pass away as the streams of torrents,
torrents black from ice, in which the snow hides itself.
When they become warm, they go away; when it is hot, they vanish out of their place.
The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing and are lost.
The troops of Tema looked; the companies of Sheba hoped for them.
They were ashamed because they had hoped; they came there and were ashamed.
Surely now you are like them; you see my casting down, and are afraid.
Did I say, Give to me? or, Offer a bribe for me from your wealth;
or, Deliver me from the enemy's hand; or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty?
Teach me, and I will be silent; and cause me to understand where I have gone astray.
Right words are powerful, but what does your arguing argue?
Do you intend to criticize words, and the speeches of one who is hopeless, that are as wind?
Yea, you cause anger to fall on the fatherless, and you dig a pit for your friend.
And now, please look on me; for if I lie, it is before your face.
Turn back, please let there be no sin; yea, return again, my righteousness is in this matter.
Is there wrong in my tongue? Cannot my taste discern desirable things?