A slothful man is compared to a stone that is defiled;
And every one will hiss him out in his disgrace.

A slothful man is compared to the filth of a dunghill:
Every man that takes it up will shake out his hand.

A father has shame in having begotten an uninstructed son;
And a foolish  daughter is born to his loss.

A prudent daughter shall inherit a husband of her own;
And she that brings shame is the grief of her father.

She that is bold brings shame upon father and husband;
And she shall be despised of them both.

Unseasonable discourse is as  music in mourning;
But stripes and correction are wisdom at every season.

He that teaches a fool is as  one that glues a potsherd together;
Even as  one that wakes a sleeper out of a deep sleep.

He that discourseth to a fool is as  one discoursing to a man that slumbereth;
And at the end he will say, What is it?


Weep for the dead, for light has failed him;
And weep for a fool, for understanding has failed him:
Weep more sweetly for the dead, because he has found rest;
But the life of the fool is worse than death.

Seven days are the days of  mourning for the dead;
But for a fool and an ungodly man, all the days of his life.

Talk not much with a foolish man,
And go not to one that has no understanding:
Beware of him, lest you have trouble;
And so  you shall not be  defiled in his onslaught:
Turn aside from him, and you shall find rest;
And so  you shall not be wearied in his madness.

What shall be heavier than lead?
And what is the name thereof, but a fool?

Sand, and salt, and a mass of iron, is easier to bear,
Than a man without understanding.

Timber girded and bound into a building shall not be loosed with shaking:
So a heart established in due season on well advised counsel shall not be afraid.

A heart settled upon a thoughtful understanding
Is as an ornament of plaister on a polished wall.

Pales set on a high place will not stand against the wind:
So a fearful heart in the imagination of a fool will not stand against any fear.

He that pricks the eye will make tears to fall;
And he that pricks the heart makes it to show feeling.

Whoso casts a stone at birds frays them away;
And he that upbraids a friend will dissolve friendship.

If you have drawn a sword against a friend, despair not;
For there may be a returning.

If you have opened your mouth against a friend, fear not;
For there may be a reconciling;
Except it be for upbraiding, and arrogance, and disclosing of a secret, and a treacherous blow:
For these things every friend will flee.

Gain trust with your neighbor in his poverty,
That in his prosperity you may have gladness:
Abide stedfast to him in the time of his affliction,
That you may be heir with him in his inheritance.

Before fire is the vapor and smoke of a furnace;
So revilings before bloodshed.

I will not be ashamed to shelter a friend;
And I will not hide myself from his face:

And if any evil happen to me because of him,
Every one that hears it will beware of him.

Who shall set a watch over my mouth,
And a seal of shrewdness upon my lips,
That I fall not from it, and that my tongue destroy me not?
