And Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.
And when Shechem, the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her and lay with her, and defiled her.
And his soul clung to Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the girl and spoke to the heart of the girl.
And Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, Get me this girl for a wife.
And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter. And his sons were with his cattle in the field. And Jacob kept silent until they had come.
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him.
And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard. And the men were furious, and they were very angry, because he had done folly in Israel, in lying with the daughter of Jacob. And it ought not to be done so.
And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter. Please give her to him for a wife.
And you make marriages with us, giving your daughters to us, and taking our daughters to you.
And you shall live with us. And the land shall be before you. Live and trade in it, and get possessions in it.
And Shechem said to her father and to her brothers, Let me find grace in your eyes, and whatever you shall say to me I will give.
Heap upon me ever so much price and dowry, and I will give according as you shall say to me. But give me the girl for a wife.
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father, speaking with deceit because he had defiled Dinah their sister.
And they said to them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised. For it is a reproach to us.
But in this we will agree with you, if you will be as we are, that every male of you be circumcised,
then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will live with you, and we will become one people.
But if you will not listen to us, to be circumcised, then we will take our daughter, and we will go.
And their words pleased Hamor and Shechem, Hamor's son.
And the young man did not hesitate to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter. And he was more honorable than all the house of his father.
And Hamor and Shechem his son came to the gate of their city, and talked with the men of their city, saying,
These men are at peace with us. Therefore let them live in the land, and trade in it. For behold, the land is large enough for them. Let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters.
Only on this condition will the men agree to us, to live with us, to be one people, if every male among us is circumcised as they are circumcised.
Shall not their cattle and their substance and every animal of theirs be ours? Only let us agree with them, and they will live with us.
And all that went out of the gate of his city listened to Hamor and to Shechem his son. And every male was circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city.
And it happened on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, took each his sword and came upon the city boldly, and killed all the males.
And they killed Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out.
The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and plundered the city, because they had defiled their sister.
They took their sheep and their oxen, and their asses, and that which was in the city and that which was in the field.
And all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives, they took captive, and plundered even all that was in the house.
And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You have troubled me, to make me stink among those who live in the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites. And I, being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and kill me. And I shall be destroyed, my house and I.
And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with a harlot?