Now these are the names of the tribes: From the north end, beside the way of Hethlon to the entrance of Hamath, Hazar-enan at the border of Damascus, northward beside Hamath, (and they shall have their sides east and west), Dan, one portion.
And by the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side, Asher, one portion.
And by the border of Asher, from the east side even to the west side, Naphtali, one portion.
And by the border of Naphtali, from the east side to the west side, Manasseh, one portion.
And by the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side, Ephraim, one portion.
And by the border of Ephraim, from the east side even to the west side, Reuben, one portion.
And by the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side, Judah, one portion.
And by the border of Judah, from the east side to the west side, shall be the oblation which ye shall offer: twenty-five thousand measures in breadth, and in length as one of the portions, from the east side to the west side. And the sanctuary shall be in the midst of it.
The oblation that ye shall offer to Jehovah shall be twenty-five thousand measures in length, and ten thousand in breadth.
And for these, even for the priests, shall be the holy oblation: toward the north twenty-five thousand in length, and toward the west ten thousand in breadth, and toward the east ten thousand in breadth, and toward the south twenty-five thousand in length. And the sanctuary of Jehovah shall be in the midst of it.
It shall be for the priests who are sanctified of the sons of Zadok, who have kept my charge, who did not go astray when the sons of Israel went astray, as the Levites went astray.
And it shall be to them an oblation from the oblation of the land, a thing most holy, by the border of the Levites.
And answerable to the border of the priests, the Levites shall have twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth. All the length shall be twenty-five thousand, and the breadth ten thousand.
And they shall sell none of it, nor exchange it, nor shall the first-fruits of the land be alienated, for it is holy to Jehovah.
And the five thousand that are left in the breadth, in front of the twenty-five thousand, shall be for common use, for the city, for dwelling and for suburbs. And the city shall be in the midst of it.
And these shall be the measures of it: the north side four thousand and five hundred, and the south side four thousand and five hundred, and on the east side four thousand and five hundred, and the west side four thousand and five hundred.
And the city shall have suburbs: toward the north two hundred and fifty, and toward the south two hundred and fifty, and toward the east two hundred and fifty, and toward the west two hundred and fifty.
And the residue in the length, answerable to the holy oblation, shall be ten thousand eastward, and ten thousand westward. And it shall be answerable to the holy oblation. And the increase of it shall be for food to those who labor in the city.
And those who labor in the city, out of all the tribes of Israel, shall till it.
All the oblation shall be twenty-five thousand by twenty-five thousand. Ye shall offer the holy oblation four-square, with the possession of the city.
And the residue shall be for the ruler, on the one side and on the other of the holy oblation and of the possession of the city, in front of the twenty-five thousand of the oblation toward the east border, and westward in front of the twenty-five thousand toward the west border, answerable to the portions. It shall be for the ruler. And the holy oblation and the sanctuary of the house shall be in the midst of it.
Moreover from the possession of the Levites, and from the possession of the city, being in the midst of that which is the ruler's, between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin, it shall be for the ruler.
And as for the rest of the tribes, from the east side to the west side, Benjamin, one portion.
And by the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side, Simeon, one portion.
And by the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side, Issachar, one portion.
And by the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side, Zebulun, one portion.
And by the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side, Gad, one portion.
And by the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the border shall be even from Tamar to the waters of Meribath-kadesh, to the brook of Egypt, to the great sea.
This is the land which ye shall divide by lot to the tribes of Israel for inheritance, and these are their several portions, says the lord Jehovah.
And these are the exits of the city: On the north side four thousand and five hundred measures by measure.
And the gates of the city shall be according to the names of the tribes of Israel, three gates northward: the gate of Reuben, one, the gate of Judah, one, the gate of Levi, one.
And at the east side four thousand and five hundred measures, and three gates: even the gate of Joseph, one, the gate of Benjamin, one, the gate of Dan, one.
And at the south side four thousand and five hundred measures by measure, and three gates: the gate of Simeon, one, the gate of Issachar, one, the gate of Zebulun, one.
At the west side four thousand and five hundred measures, with their three gates: the gate of Gad, one, the gate of Asher, one, the gate of Naphtali, one.
It shall be eighteen thousand measures round about. And the name of the city from that day shall be, Jehovah is there.