But about the times and the seasons, brothers, ye have no need to be written to you.
For ye yourselves know accurately that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night.
For when they say, Peace and safety, then sudden destruction approaches them, as the woman having birth pangs in her womb, and they will, no, not escape.
But ye, brothers, are not in darkness, so that the day would seize you as a thief.
Ye are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness.
So then let us not sleep, as also the others, but let us watch and be sober.
For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who are intoxicated get drunk at night.
But we, being of the day, should be sober, putting on a breastplate of faith and love, and a helmet, the hope of salvation.
Because God appointed us not for wrath, but for an acquired possession of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us.
So that, whether we are awake or sleep, we should live together with him.
Therefore encourage each other, and build ye up one by one, just as ye also are doing.
And we ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you, and who lead you in the Lord, and who admonish you,
and to esteem them with exceptional love because of their work. Live peaceably among yourselves.
And we encourage you, brothers, admonish the unruly, strengthen the weak-spirited, help the infirmed, be patient toward all.
See that not any man repays evil for evil to any man, but always pursue the good, both for each other and for all.
Rejoice always.
Pray without ceasing.
In everything express thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not disdain prophecies,
but examine all things. Hold firm the good.
Abstain from all appearance of evil.
And may the God of peace himself sanctify you thoroughly. And may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, blamelessly at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he who calls you, who also will do it.
Brothers, pray about us.
Salute all the brothers by a holy kiss.
I adjure you by the Lord that the letter be read to all the holy brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with you. Truly.