And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, that they set themselves apart from the holy things of the sons of Israel, and that they do not profane My holy name in what they devote to Me; I am Jehovah.
Say to them, Out of all your seed throughout your generations, any man who draws near to the holy things which the sons of Israel set apart to Jehovah, and his uncleanness being upon him, that person shall be cut off from before me; I am Jehovah.
Any man of the seed of Aaron that is leprous or has an discharge, he shall not eat of the holy things until he is clean. And he who touches any uncleanness of a person, or a man whose semen has gone out of him;
or a man who touches any swarming thing which is unclean to him, or touches a man who is unclean to him, by any of his uncleanness,
the person who touches it shall even be unclean until the evening, and shall not eat of the holy things, but shall bathe his flesh with water.
And when the sun goes in, he shall be clean, and afterwards he shall eat of the holy things, for it is his food;
he shall not eat a dead body or torn thing, for it is unclean; I am Jehovah.
And they shall keep My charge, and shall bear no sin for it, that they may not die for it when they pollute it; I am Jehovah, who is sanctifying them.
And no stranger shall eat of the holy things, a tenant of a priest, or a hired servant; these shall not eat of the holy thing.
And if a priest buys a person, the purchase of his silver, he shall eat of it; also one born in his house, they shall eat of his bread.
And a priest's daughter, when she belongs to an alien man, she shall not eat of the heave offering of the holy things.
But a priest's daughter, when she is a widow, or put away, and has no seed, and has turned back to her father's house, as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's bread. But no stranger shall eat of it.
And if a man shall eat of a holy thing through ignorance, then he shall add the fifth part of it, and shall give it to the priest along with the holy thing.
And they shall not pollute the holy things of the sons of Israel, that which they lift up to Jehovah;
and so cause them to bear the iniquity of the guilt offering in their eating their holy things. For I am Jehovah who sanctifies them.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, Any man of the house of Israel, or of the aliens in Israel, who brings near his offering, of all his vows, or of all his freewill offerings which they bring near to Jehovah for a burnt offering;
at your own will a male, a perfect one, of the oxen, of the sheep, or of the goats may be offered .
You shall not offer that which has a blemish; for it shall not be acceptable for you.
And when a man brings near a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah, to complete a vow, or for a freewill offering, of the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; no blemish shall be in it;
blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a flow, or scurvy, or scabbed, you shall not bring these near to Jehovah; and you shall not make of them a fire offering on the altar to Jehovah.
As to an ox or a sheep deformed, or dwarfed, you shall make it a freewill offering; but it is not acceptable for a vow.
As to anything bruised, or beaten, or torn, or cut, you shall not bring it near to Jehovah; even you shall not do it in your land.
And you shall not bring near the bread of your God from the hand of a son of a stranger, or any of these, for their corruption is in them; they are blemished; they are not acceptable for you.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
When an ox, or lamb, or goat is born, and when it has been seven days under its dam, then from the eighth day and onward it is acceptable for an offering, a fire offering to Jehovah;
but an ox or sheep, it and its young one, you shall not slaughter in one day.
And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to Jehovah, you shall sacrifice it of your free will;
it shall be eaten on that day; you shall not leave of it until morning; I am Jehovah.
And you shall keep My commandments and shall do them; I am Jehovah.
And you shall not profane My holy name, and I shall be counted holy among the sons of Israel; I am Jehovah, who is sanctifying you,
who is bringing you up out of the land of Egypt, to become your God; I am Jehovah.