And at that time Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands for the sons of thy people. And there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. And at that time thy people shall be delivered, everyone who shall be found written in the book.
And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
And those who are wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and those who turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever.
But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased.
Then I, Daniel, looked, and, behold, another two stood, the one on the brink of the river on this side, and the other on the brink of the river on that side.
And one said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?
And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand to heaven, and swore by him who lives forever that it shall be for a time, times, and a half. And when they have made an end of breaking in pieces the power of the holy people, all these things shall be finished.
And I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, O my lord, what shall be the outcome of these things?
And he said, Go thy way, Daniel, for the words are shut up and sealed till the time of the end.
Many shall purify themselves, and make themselves white, and be refined, but the wicked shall do wickedly. And none of the wicked shall understand, but those who are wise shall understand.
And from the time that the continual burnt offering shall be taken away, and the abomination that makes desolate is set up, there shall be a thousand and two hundred and ninety days.
Blessed is he who waits, and comes to the thousand three hundred and thirty-five days.
But go thou thy way till the end is. For thou shall rest, and shall stand in thy lot at the end of the days.