Now, faith is a sure confidence with respect to things hoped for, a firm persuasion with respect to things not seen:
for by this the ancients obtained a good reputation.
By faith we understand that the ages were set in order by the word of God, so that the things which are seen, have not come into being from things that appear.
By faith Abel offered to God more sacrifice than Cain; on account of which he received testimony that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts; and by it he, though dead, yet speaks.
By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death, and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had the testimony that he pleased God.
But without faith it is impossible to please him; for he that comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him.
By faith Noah, after being warned concerning things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark for the salvation of his house; by which faith he condemned the world, and became an heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
By faith Abraham, when called to go out into a place that he should afterward receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise:
for he looked for a city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
By faith also Sarah herself received strength for the conception of seed, and brought forth a child when past the time of life, because she counted him faithful who had promised.
Therefore, there were born of one, who was dead as it respects these things, a posterity like the stars of heaven in multitude, and like the sand on the sea-shore, innumerable.
All these died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and having embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners in the land.
For those who say such things, declare plainly that they seek a country.
And if indeed they had been mindful of that from which they came, they could have had an opportunity to return.
But now they desire a better, that is, a heavenly country; wherefore God is not ashamed of them, that he should be called their God: for he has prepared for them a city.
By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: even his first-born, did he that had received the promises, offer up,
of which first-born it was said: In Isaac shall your posterity be called:
for he concluded that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; wherefore he received him even in like manner.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped on the top of his staff.
By faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the departure of the sons of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
By faith Moses was concealed by his parents for three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a beautiful child: and they feared not the command of the king.
By faith Moses, when he became a man, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter,
choosing rather to suffer evil with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasure of sin for a season;
esteeming the reproach on account of the Christ as greater riches than the treasures of Egypt: for he earnestly looked to the reward.
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the anger of the king: for he patiently endured, as seeing him that is invisible.
By faith he kept the passover, and the affusion of blood, that he who destroyed the first-born might not touch them.
By faith they passed through the Bed Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians attempting to do, were drowned.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after the people had gone around them for seven days.
By faith Rabab the harlot perished not with the disobedient, because she had received the spies with peace.
And what further shall I say? For the time would fail me, were I to tell of Gideon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthah, of David also and Samuel, and of the prophets,
who, through faith, subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, closed the mouths of lions,
quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became valiant in battle, turned to flight the armies of the aliens.
Women received their dead raised to life again: but others were beat to death, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection;
others had trial of mockings and scourgings, bonds also, and imprisonments.
They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword: they went about in sheep-skins, in goat-skins, being destitute, afflicted, oppressed with evils,
(of whom the world was not worthy,) wandering in deserts, and in mountains, and in caverns, and in dens of the earth.
And all these, having obtained a good reputation by faith, received not the promise,
because God had provided some better thing for us, that they, without us, should not be made perfect.