Do not judge, that you may not be judged;
for with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, it will be measured again to you.
But why do you look on the twig that is in the eye of your brother, but do not see the log in your eye?
Or how will you say to your brother, Allow me to cast out the twig from your eye; and behold, the log is in your eye!
Hypocrite, first cast the log out of your eye, and then you will see clearly to cast the twig out of the eye of your brother.
Do not give that which is holy to the dogs, nor throw your pearls before the pigs, that they should not trample them with their feet, and turning they may tear you.
Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
For each one that asks receives, and the one that seeks finds; and to the one knocking, it will be opened.
Or what man of you is there, if his son should ask a loaf of him, will he give him a stone?
And if he should ask a fish, will he give him a snake?
Therefore, if you, being evil. know to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in Heaven give good things to those that ask Him?
Therefore, all things, whatever you desire that men should do to you, so also you should do to them; for this is the Law and the Prophets.
Go in through the narrow gate; for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many are the ones who go through it.
For narrow is the gate, and constricted is the way that leads away into life, and few are the ones who find it.
But beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inside they are plundering wolves.
From their fruits you shall know them. Do they gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?
So every good tree produces good fruits, but the corrupt tree produces evil fruits.
A good tree cannot produce evil fruits, nor a corrupt tree produce good fruits.
Every tree not producing good fruit is cut down and is thrown into fire.
Then surely from their fruits you shall know them.
Not everyone who says to Me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of Heaven, but the ones who do the will of My Father in Heaven.
Many will say to Me in that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in Your name, and in Your name cast out demons, and in Your name do many works of power?
And then I will declare to them, I never knew you; "depart from Me, those working lawlessness!" Psa. 6:8
Then everyone who hears these words from Me, and does them, I will compare him to a wise man who built his house on the rock;
and the rains came down, and the rivers came up, and the winds blew, and fell against that house; but it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock.
And everyone who hears these words of Mine, and who does not do them, he shall be compared to a foolish man who built his house on the sand;
and the rain came down, and the rivers came up, and the winds blew and beat against that house; and it fell, and great was the fall of it.
And it happened, when Jesus had finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at His doctrine.
For He was teaching them as having authority, and not as the scribes.