I, am the real vine, and, my Father, is, the husbandman.
Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, He taketh it away; and, every one that beareth, fruit, He pruneth it, that, more fruit, it may bear.
Already, ye, are, pure, because of the word which I have spoken unto you:
Abide in me, and, I, in you. Just as, the branch, cannot be bearing fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, so, neither, ye, except, in me, ye abide.
I, am the vine: Ye, are the branches. He that abideth in me and, I, in him, the same, beareth much fruit; because, apart from me, ye can bring forth, nothing.
If one abide not me, he is cast out as the branch, and withered, and they gather them,—and, into fire, they cast them, and they are burned.
If ye abide in me, and, my sayings, in you, abide, whatsoever ye may be desiring, ask! and it shall be brought to pass for you.
Herein, was my Father glorified, that, much fruit, ye should bear, and become my disciples.
Just as the Father loved me, I also, loved you: Abide ye in my love.
If, my commandments, ye keep, ye shall abide in my love,—just as, I, the Father’s commandments, have kept, and abide in his love.
These things, have I spoken unto you, that, my own joy, in you, may be, and, your joy, may be made full.
This, is my own commandment, That ye be loving one another, just as I loved you.
Greater love than this, hath, no one, That, his life, one should lay down in behalf of his friends.
Ye, are, friends of mine, if ye be doing that which, I, am commanding you.
No longer, do I call you, servants, for, the servant, knoweth not what, his lord, is doing. But, you, I have called, friends, because, all things which I heard from my Father, made I known unto you.
Not, ye, chose, me, but, I, chose you, and placed you, that ye should go your way and bear, fruit,—and, your fruit, should abide: that, whatsoever ye should ask the Father in my name, he might give unto you.
These things, I command you, That ye be loving one another.
If, the world, is hating, you, ye are getting to know that, me, before you, it hath hated.
If, of the world, ye had been, the world, of its own, had been fond; but, because, of the world, ye are not, on the contrary, I, chose you out of the world, therefore, the world, doth hate you.
Remember the word which, I, spake unto you: A servant is not greater than his lord. If, me, they persecuted, you too, will they persecute,—If, my word, they kept, your own also, will they keep.
But, all these things, will they do unto you, on account of my name, because they know not him that sent me.
Had I not come and spoken unto them, Sin, had they none; but, now, have they no, excuse, for their sin.
He that hateth me, hateth, my Father also.
Had I not done among them, the works, which, no other, had done, sin, had they none; but, now, have they, both seen and hated both me and my Father.
But…that the word which, in their law, is written, might be fulfilled—They hated me without cause.
Whensoever the Advocate shall come, Whom, I, will send unto you from the Father, The Spirit of truth, which, from the Father, cometh forth, He, will bear witness concerning me;
And do, ye also, bear witness, because, from the beginning, ye are, with me,