Now, these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and there were born to them sons after the flood.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer and Magog, and Madai, and Javan and Tubal,—and Meshech, and Tiras.
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz and Riphath, and Togarmah.
And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish. Kittim, and Rodanim,—
From these, were dispersed [the inhabitants] of the coastlands of the nations, in their lands, each man by his tongue, by their families in their nations.
And, the sons of Ham: Cush and Mizraim and Phut and Canaan.
And, the sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah, and Sabtah and Raamah, and Sabtechah,—And the sons of Raamah, Sheba and Dedan.
And, Cush begat Nimrod.—he, became a hero in the earth;
he, became a hero of hunting before Yahweh, for this cause, it is said. Like Nimrod, a hero of hunting before Yahweh.
So the beginning of his kingdom came to be Babel, and Erech, and Accad and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
From that land, went forth Asshur,—and he built Nineveh, and Rehoboth-ir, and Calah:
and Resen, between Niveveh and Calah,—the same is the great city.
And, Mizraim, begat Ludim and Anamim and Lehabim, and Naphtuchim;
and Pathrusim and Casluhim whence came forth Philistim and Caphtorim.
And Canaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth:
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite;
and the Hivite and the Arkite, and the Sinite:
and the Arvadite and the Zemarite and the Hamathite,—and after-wards, were spread abroad the families of the Canaanite.
And it came to pass that the boundary of the Canaanite was from Zidon, as thou enterest in towards Gerar unto Gaza,—as thou enterest in towards Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboim, as far as Lasha.
These, are the sons of Ham, by their families by their tongues, in their lands in their nations.
Now, to Shem, father of all the sons of Eber, elder brother of Japheth, to him also, were children born.
The sons of Shem, Elam and Asshur,—and Arpachshad and Lud and Aram.
And, the sons of Aram: Uz and Hul, and Gether and Mash.
Now Arpachshad, begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.
And to Eber, were born two sons,—the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days, was the earth divided, and the name of his brother was Joktan.
Now, Joktan, begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah;
and Hadoram and Uzal, and Diklah:
and Obal and Abimael, and Sheba:
and Ophir and Havilah, and Jobab—all these were sons of Joktan.
And it came to pass that their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou enterest in towards Sephar, the mountain of the east.
These are the sons of Shem, by their families by their tongues, in their lands by their nations.
These, are the families of the sons of Noah, by their generations in their nations, and from these, were dispersed the nations in the earth after the flood.