And Rehoboam went to Shechem. For all Israel came to Shechem to make him king.
And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it, (for he was in Egypt, from where he had fled from the presence of king Solomon), that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.
And they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all Israel came, and they spoke to Rehoboam, saying,
Thy father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee.
And he said to them, Come again to me after three days. And the people departed.
And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men that had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel do ye give me to return an answer to this people?
And they spoke to him, saying, If thou be kind to this people, and please them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants forever.
But he forsook the counsel of the old men which they had given him, and took counsel with the young men that grew up with him, who stood before him.
And he said to them, What counsel do ye give, that we may return an answer to this people who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke that thy father put upon us lighter?
And the young men that grew up with him spoke to him, saying, Thus shall thou say to the people who spoke to thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter to us. Thus shall thou say to them, My little finger is thicker than my father's loins.
And now whereas my father burdened you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father chastised you with whips, but I with scorpions.
So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king bade, saying, Come to me again the third day.
And the king answered them roughly. And king Rehoboam forsook the counsel of the old men,
and spoke to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add thereto. My father chastised you with whips, but I with scorpions.
So the king did not hearken to the people. For it was brought about by God, that Jehovah might establish his word, which he spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
And when all Israel saw that the king did not hearken to them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? Neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to your tents, O Israel. Now see to thine own house, David. So all Israel departed to their tents.
But as for the sons of Israel who dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
Then king Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was over the men subject to task work. And the sons of Israel stoned him to death with stones. And king Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.
So Israel rebelled against the house of David to this day.