What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin so that grace may abound?
Let it not be! How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it?
Do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into His death?
Therefore we were buried with Him by baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father; even so we also should walk in newness of life.
For if we have been joined together in the likeness of His death, we shall also be in the likeness of His resurrection;
knowing this, that our old man is crucified with Him in order that the body of sin might be destroyed, that from now on we should not serve sin.
For he who died has been justified from sin.
But if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with Him,
knowing that when Christ was raised from the dead, He dies no more; death no longer has dominion over Him.
For in that He died, He died to sin once; but in that He lives, He lives to God.
Likewise count yourselves also to be truly dead to sin, but alive to God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in its lusts.
Do not yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but yield yourselves to God, as one alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God.
For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are not under Law, but under grace.
What then? Shall we sin because we are not under Law, but under grace? Let it not be!
Do you not know that to whom you yield yourselves as slaves for obedience, you are slaves to him whom you obey; whether it is of sin to death, or of obedience to righteousness.
But thanks be to our God that you were the slaves of sin, but you have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine to which you were delivered.
Then being made free from sin, you became the slaves of righteousness.
I speak in the manner of men because of the weakness of your flesh; for as you have yielded your members as slaves to uncleanness, and to lawless act unto lawless act, even so now yield your members as slaves to righteousness unto holiness.
For when you were the slaves of sin, you were free from righteousness.
What fruit did you have then in those things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death.
But now, being made free from sin, and having become slaves to God, you have your fruit to holiness, and the end everlasting life.
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.