And in the seventh month, on the first of the month, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no laboring work. It is a day of blowing the trumpets to you.
And you shall prepare a burnt offering for a sweet savor to the LORD: one young bull, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish.
And their food offering shall be flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for a bull, two tenth parts for a ram,
and one tenth part for one lamb, for the seven lambs,
and one kid of the goats for a sin offering to make an atonement for you;
besides the burnt offering of the month, and its food offering, and the daily burnt offering, and its food offering, and their drink offerings, according to their ordinance, for a sweet savor, a fire offering to the LORD.
And you shall have a holy convocation on the tenth of this seventh month. And you shall afflict your souls. You shall not do any work.
But you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD for a sweet savor: one young bull, one ram, seven lambs of the first year. They shall be to you without blemish.
And their food offering shall be flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts to a bull, two tenth parts to one ram,
one tenth part for the one lamb, for the seven lambs;
one kid of the goats for a sin offering, besides the sin offering of atonement and the continual burnt offering and the food offering of it, and their drink offerings.
And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no laboring work, and you shall keep a feast to the LORD seven days.
And you shall offer a burnt offering, a fire offering, of a sweet savor to the LORD: thirteen young bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year. They shall be without blemish.
And their food offering shall be flour, mixed with oil, three tenth parts to every bull of the thirteen bulls, two tenth parts to each ram of the two rams,
and one tenth part to each lamb of the fourteen lambs;
and one kid of the goats for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its food offering, and its drink offering.
And on the second day you shall offer twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot;
and their food offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, according to the law;
and one kid of the goats for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering and its food offering, and their drink offerings.
And on the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish.
And their food offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, according to the law;
and one goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering and its food offering and its drink offering.
And on the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish.
Their food offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, according to the law;
and one kid of the goats for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its food offering, and its drink offering.
And on the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot.
And their food offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, according to the law;
and one goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering and its food offering and its drink offering.
And on the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish;
and their food offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, for the lambs, shall be according to their number, according to the law;
and one goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its food offering, and its drink offering.
And on the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish;
and their food offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, according to the law;
and one goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its food offering, and its drink offering.
On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly. You shall do no laboring work.
But you shall offer a burnt offering, a fire offering of a sweet savor to the LORD: one bull, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish;
their food offering and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to the law;
and one goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering and its drink offering.
You shall prepare these to the LORD in your appointed seasons, besides your vows and your free-will offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your food offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.
And Moses told the sons of Israel according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.