And it was in the eleventh year, in the first of the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, because Tyre has said against Jerusalem, Aha! She is shattered, the doors of the peoples; she has turned to me, I shall be filled, she is laid waste.
So the Lord Jehovah says this, Behold, I am against you, O Tyre. And I will cause many nations to go up against you, as the sea causes its waves to go up.
And they shall destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers. I will also scrape her dust from her and make her like a shining rock.
It shall be a spreading place for nets in the middle of the sea. for I have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah. And she shall be a spoil to the nations.
And her daughters who are in the field shall be killed by the sword. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring on Tyre from the north, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, a king of kings, with horses and with chariots and with a company of horsemen, even many people.
He shall kill your daughters in the field with the sword. And he shall give siege walls against you and pour out a mound against you, and raise a buckler against you.
And he will set the blow of his ram against your walls, and he will break down your towers with his axes.
From the multitude of his horses their dust shall cover you. from the sound of the horsemen, and the wheels, and the chariots, your walls shall shake when he goes into your gates, as they enter a city that is breached.
With the hoofs of the horses, he will trample all your streets. He shall kill your people by the sword, and the pillars of your strength shall go down to the ground.
And they shall strip your wealth and plunder your merchandise. And they shall tear down your walls and destroy your desirable houses. And they shall set your stones and your timber and your dust in the midst of the water.
And I will make cease the noise of your songs. And the sound of your harps shall not be heard any more.
And I will make you like a shining rock. You shall be a spreading place for nets, you shall not be built any more. For I, Jehovah, have spoken, declares the Lord Jehovah.
So says the Lord Jehovah to Tyre: Shall not the coast lands shake at the sound of your fall, when the slain groan, in the slaying of the slaughter in your midst?
And all the rulers of the sea shall come down from their thrones and lay aside their robes and strip off their embroidered garments. they shall be clothed with trembling. They shall sit on the ground and shall tremble at  every moment and be appalled at you.
And they shall take up a lament for you and say to you, How you are perished, who lived by the seas, the city well praised, which was strong in the sea, she and her dwellers, who put their terror on all her dwellers!
Now the coastlands shall tremble in the day of your fall. Yea, the coastlands by the sea shall be troubled at your going down.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: When I shall make you a ruined city, like the cities that do not have dwellers, when I shall bring up on you the deep and great waters shall cover you.
And I shall bring you down with those who go into the Pit, with the people of old time, and I shall set you in the earth's lowest parts, in places ruined from days of old, with ones who go to the Pit, so that you have no dwellers. But I gave glory in the land of the living.
I will give you terrors, and you will not be. Though you are sought, yet you shall not be found any more forever, declares the Lord Jehovah.