Thus says Jehovah to me, "Go, and buy yourself a linen belt, and put it on your waist, and do not put it in water."
So I bought a belt according to the word of Jehovah, and put it on my waist.
The word of Jehovah came to me the second time, saying,
"Take the belt that you have bought, which is on your waist, and arise, go to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a cleft of the rock."
So I went, and hid it by the Euphrates, as Jehovah commanded me.
It happened after many days, that Jehovah said to me, "Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take the belt from there, which I commanded you to hide there."
Then I went to the Euphrates, and dug, and took the belt from the place where I had hidden it; and behold, the belt was marred, it was profitable for nothing.
Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
"Thus says Jehovah, 'In this way I will mar the pride of Judah, and the great pride of Jerusalem.
This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, who walk in the stubbornness of their heart, and are gone after other gods to serve them, and to worship them, shall even be as this belt, which is profitable for nothing.
For as the belt clings to the waist of a man, so have I caused to cling to me the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah,' says Jehovah; 'that they might be my people, for a name, for praise, and for glory. But they would not listen.
Therefore you shall speak to them this word: 'Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, "Every bottle shall be filled with wine:"' and they shall tell you, 'Do we not certainly know that every bottle shall be filled with wine?'
Then you shall tell them, 'Thus says Jehovah, "Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, even the kings who sit on David's throne, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness.
I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and the sons together, says Jehovah. I will not pity, nor spare, nor have compassion, that I should not destroy them."'"
"Hear, and give ear; do not be proud; for Jehovah has spoken.
Give glory to Jehovah your God, before he causes darkness, and before your feet stumble on the dark mountains, and, while you look for light, he turns it into the shadow of death, and makes it gross darkness.
But if you will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret for your pride; and my eye shall weep bitterly, and run down with tears, because Jehovah's flock is taken captive."
"Say to the king and to the queen mother, 'Humble yourselves, sit down; for your headdresses have come down, even the crown of your glory.
The cities toward the south are shut up, and there is none to open them: Judah is carried away captive, all of it; it is wholly carried away captive.'"
"Lift up your eyes, and see those who come from the north: where is the flock that was given you, your beautiful flock?
What will you say, when he shall set over you as head those whom you have yourself taught to be friends to you? Shall not sorrows take hold of you, as of a woman in travail?
If you say in your heart, 'Why are these things come on me?' for the greatness of your iniquity are your skirts uncovered, and your heels suffer violence.
Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots? Then may you also do good, who are accustomed to do evil.
'Therefore will I scatter them, as the stubble that passes away, by the wind of the wilderness.
This is your lot, the portion measured to you from me,' says Jehovah; 'because you have forgotten me, and trusted in falsehood.
Therefore will I also uncover your skirts on your face, and your shame shall appear.
I have seen your abominations, even your adulteries, and your neighing, the lewdness of your prostitution, on the hills in the field. Woe to you, Jerusalem! You will not be made clean; how long shall it yet be?'"