All the commandment which I am commanding thee to-day, shalt thou, observe, to do,—that ye may, live, and multiply, and enter in and possess the land, which Yahweh sware unto your fathers.
So then, thou shalt remember all the way in which Yahweh thy God caused thee to journey these forty years in the desert,—that he might humble thee to put thee to the proof to know what was in thy heart,—whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or not.
So he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna which thou hadst not known, neither had thy fathers known,—that he might lead thee to consider that not on bread alone, shall the son of earth live, but on whatsoever cometh from the bidding of Yahweh, shall the son of earth live.
Thy mantle, hath not fallen with age from off thee, and, thy foot, hath not become swollen,—these forty years.
Thou must consider, then with thy heart,—that as a man chasteneth his son, Yahweh thy God, hath been chastening thee.
Thou shalt therefore keep the commandments of Yahweh thy God,—to walk in his ways and to revere him.
For, Yahweh thy God, is bringing thee into a good land; a land of ravines of water, of fountains and depths, coming forth in valley, and in mountain:
a land of wheat and barley, and vine and fig-tree, and pomegranate,—a land of olive oil, and honey:
a land wherein not in scarcity, shalt thou eat food, thou shalt lack nothing therein,—a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest hew copper.
So then thou shalt eat and be satisfied,—and bless Yahweh thy God, for the good land which he hath given unto thee.
Take heed to thyself, lest thou forget Yahweh thy God,—so as not to keep his commandments and his regulations and his statutes, which I am commanding thee to-day;
lest thou eat, and be satisfied,—and goodly houses, thou build and inhabit;
and thy herd and thy flock, increase, and silver and gold, increase unto thee,—and all that thou hast, increase;
and so thy heart be lifted up,—and thou forget Yahweh thy God, who brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt out of the house of servants;
who caused thee to journey through the great and terrible desert, of fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty wastes where was no water,—who brought forth for thee water out of the flinty rock;
who fed thee with manna in the desert, which thy fathers had not known,—that he might humble thee, and that he might put thee to the proof, to do thee good in thy hereafter,
and lest thou shouldest say in thy heart,—Mine own strength and the might of mine own hand, have gotten me this wealth.
But thou shalt remember Yahweh thy God, that it was, he, who had been giving thee strength to get wealth,—that so he might establish his covenant which he sware to thy fathers (as at this day).
But it shall be if thou forget, Yahweh thy God, and go after ether gods, and serve them, and bow thyself down to them, I testify against you to-day, that ye shall perish:
like the nations which, Yahweh, is causing to perish from before you, so, shall ye perish, because ye would not hearken unto the voice of Yahweh your God.