Stand firm, therefore, in the freedom with which Christ has made us free, and be not held fast again in the yoke of bondage.
Behold, I Paul say to you, that if you be circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
I testify indeed again to every man that is circumcised, that he is bound to do the whole law.
You that are justified by law, have withdrawn from Christ: you have fallen from grace.
For we, through the Spirit which we obtain by faith, wait for the hope of righteousness.
For, in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision avails any thing, nor uncircumcision, but faith that works by love.
You were running well; who kept you back from obedience to the truth?
This readiness to be persuaded is not from him that calls you.
A little leaven leavens the whole mass.
I have confidence in you through the Lord, that you will cultivate no other disposition: but he that troubles you, who ever he may be, shall bear his condemnation.
But, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why am I yet persecuted? Then, the offense of the cross has ceased.
that those who trouble you would even cut themselves off!
For you have been called to freedom, brethren: only use not your freedom as an occasion for the flesh, but become servants to one another, through love.
For all the law is fulfilled in one commandment, in this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
But if you bite and devour one another, take heed lest you be utterly destroyed by one another.
I say this: Walk in the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the desires of the flesh.
For the desire of the flesh is against the Spirit, and the desire of the Spirit is against flesh; and these are opposed, the one to the other, so that you can not do what you would.
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law.
Now the works of the flesh are well known, and they are these―lewdness, uncleanness, wantonness,
idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strifes, jealousies, anger, party-spirit, divisions, sects,
envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like; with respect to which, I tell you now, as I also told you in times past, that those who practice such things shall riot inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faithfulness,
meekness, self-control. Against such there is no law.
Now those who are Christ’s have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Let us not be vain-glorious, provoking one another, envying one another.