Woe to them that devise iniquity, And contrive evil upon their beds; When the morning is light, they practise it, Because it is in the power of their hand.
They covet fields, and take them by violence; Houses, and take them from their owners. They defraud a man of his house; Yea, a man of his inheritance.
Therefore, thus saith Jehovah: Behold, against this race do I meditate evil. From which ye shall not remove your necks, nor lift up your heads; For it shall be a time of evil.
In that day shall this song be uttered concerning thee. And this sad lamentation be made: "We are utterly laid waste; He hath changed the portion of my people; How hath he torn it from me! He hath taken away and distributed our fields."
Behold, thou shalt have no one henceforth Who shall draw out a line for a portion, In the congregation of Jehovah.
"Prophesy not," [say they,] "O ye that prophesy!" If they prophesy not concerning these things, The shame will not depart.
O ye that are called the house of Jacob, Is the spirit of Jehovah impatient? Are these his doings? Are not my words kind to him that walketh uprightly?
But long since hath my people risen against me, as an enemy; Ye strip the mantle from the garment of those that pass by securely, as men returning from war.
The women of my people ye cast out from their pleasant abodes; Ye deprive their children forever of the glory which I gave them.
Arise and depart; This land is not your rest! On account of its pollution shall it be wasted, And given to utter destruction.
If a man follow wind, and invent falsehood, and say, "I will prophesy to thee of wine and strong drink!" He will be the prophet for this people.
Yet will I fully gather thee, O Jacob, I will surely assemble the residue of Israel! I will put them together like sheep in a fold; Like a flock in their fold shall they be in a tumult on account of the multitude of men.
He that forceth a way goeth before them; They force their way, and pass through the gate, And go forth by it; And their king goeth before them, Even Jehovah at the head of them.