The feaste of swete breed drue nye whiche is called ester
and the hye prestes and Scribes sought how to kyll him but they feared the people.
Then entred Satan into Iudas whose syr name was Iscariot (which was of the nombre of the twelve)
and he went his waye and comuned with the hye Prestes and officers how he might betraye him to them.
And they were glad: and promysed to geve him money.
And he consented and sought oportunite to betraye him vnto them when the people were awaye.
Then came ye daye of swete breed when of necessite the esterlambe must be offered.
And he sent Peter and Iohn sayinge: Goo and prepare vs the ester lambe that we maye eate.
They sayde to him. Where wilt thou yt we prepare?
And he sayd vnto them. Beholde when ye be entred into the cite ther shall a man mete you bearinge a pitcher of water him folowe into the same housse yt he entreth in
and saye vnto ye good ma of ye housse. The master sayeth vnto ye: where is ye gest chamber where I shall eate myne ester lambe wt my disciples?
And he shall shew you a greate parloure paved. Ther make redy.
And they wet and foude as he had sayd vnto the: and made redy ye ester lambe.
And when the houre was come he sate doune and the twelve Apostles with him.
And he sayde vnto them: I have inwardly desyred to eate this ester lambe with you before yt I suffre.
For I saye vnto you: hence forthe I will not eate of it eny moore vntill it be fulfilled in the kingdome of God.
And he toke the cup and gave thankes and sayde. Take this and devyde it amonge you.
For I saye vnto you: I will not drinke of the frute of the vyne vntill the kingdome of God be come.
And he toke breed gave thankes and gave to them sayinge: This is my body which is geven for you. This do in the remembraunce of me.
Lykewyse also when they had supped he toke the cup sayinge: This cup is the newe testament in my bloud which shall for you be shedde.
Yet beholde the honde of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table.
And ye sonne of man goeth as it is appoynted: But wo be to yt man by whom he is betrayed.
And they began to enquyre amoge them selves which of them it shuld be that shuld do that.
And ther was a stryfe amoge the which of them shuld be taken for the greatest.
And he sayde vnto them: the kynges of the getyls raygne over them and they that beare rule over them are called gracious lordes.
But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest amonge you shalbe as the yongest: and he that is chefe shalbe as the minister.
For whether is greater he that sitteth at meate: or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meate? And I am amoge you as he that ministreth.
Ye are they which have bidden with me in my temptacions.
And I apoynt vnto you a kyngdome as my father hath appoynted to me:
that ye maye eate and drynke at my table in my kyngdome and sit on seates and iudge the twelve tribes of Israell.
And the Lorde sayde: Simon Simon beholde Satan hath desired you to sifte you as it were wheate:
bnt I have prayed for the that thy faith fayle not. And when thou arte converted strengthe thy brethre.
And he sayd vnto him. Lorde I am redy to go with the in to preson and to deth.
And he sayde: I tell the Peter the cocke shall not crowe this daye tyll thou have thryse denyed yt thou knewest me.
And he sayde vnto them: when I sent you with out wallet and scripe and shoes? lacked ye eny thinge? And they sayd no.
And he sayde to them: but nowe he that hath a wallet let him take it vp and lykewyse his scrippe. And he that hath no swearde let him sell his coote and bye one.
For I saye vnto you that yet that which is written must be performed in me: even with the wycked was he nombred. For those thinges which are written of me have an ende.
And they sayde: Lorde beholde here are two sweardes. And he sayde vnto them: it is ynough.
And he came out and went as he was wote to mounte olivete. And the disciples folowed him.
And when he came to the place he sayde to the: praye lest ye fall into temptacio.
And he gate him selfe from them about a stones cast and kneled doune and prayed
sayinge: Father yf thou wilt withdrawe this cup fro me. Neverthelesse not my will but thyne be be fulfilled.
And ther appered an angell vnto him from heaven confortinge him.
And he was in an agonye and prayed somwhat longer. And hys sweate was lyke droppes of bloud tricklynge doune to the grounde.
And he rose vp from prayer and came to his disciples and foude them slepinge for sorowe
and sayde vnto them: Why slepe ye? Ryse and praye lest ye fall into temptacion.
Whill he yet spake: beholde ther came a company and he that was called Iudas one of the twelve wet before them and preased nye vnto Iesus to kysse him.
And Iesus sayd vnto him: Iudas betrayest thou ye sonne of man with a kysse?
When they which were about him sawe what wolde folow they sayde vnto him. Lorde shall we smite with swearde.
And one of them smote a servaut of ye hiest preste of all and smote of his right eare.
And Iesus answered and sayd: Soffre ye thus farre forthe. And he touched his eare and healed him.
Then Iesus sayde vnto the hye prestes and rulers of the temple and the elders which were come to him. Be ye come out as vnto a thefe with sweardes and staves?
When I was dayly with you in the teple ye stretched not forth hondes agaynst me. But this is even youre very houre and the power of darcknes.
Then toke they him and ledde him and brought him to the hye prestes housse. And peter folowed a farre of.
When they had kyndled a fyre in the middes of the palys and were set doune to geder Peter also sate doune amonge them.
And wone of the wenches behelde him as he sate by the fyer and set good eyesight on him and sayde: this same was also with him.
Then he denyed hym sayinge: woman I knowe him not
And after a lytell whyle another sawe him and sayde: thou arte also of them. And Peter sayd man I am not.
And aboute the space of an houre after another affirmed sayinge: verely even this felowe was with hym for he is of Galile
and Peter sayde: ma I woote not what thou sayest. And immediatly whyll he yet spake the cocke crewe.
And the Lorde tourned backe and loked apon Peter. And Peter remembred the wordes of the Lorde how he sayde vnto him before ye cocke crowe thou shalt denye me thryse.
And Peter went out and wepte bitterly.
And the men that stode about Iesus mocked him and smoote him
and blyndfolded him and smoote his face. And axed him sayinge: arede who it is that smoote ye?
And many other thinges despytfullye sayd they agaynst him.
And assone as it was daye the elders of the people and the hye prestes and scribes came to gedder and ledde him into their counsell sayinge:
arte thou very Christ? tell vs. And he sayde vnto the: yf I shall tell you ye will not beleve
And yf also I axe you ye will not answere me or let me goo.
Herafter shall the sonne of man sit on the ryght honde of the power of God.
Then sayde they all: Arte thou then the sonne of God? He sayd to them: ye saye yt I am.
Then sayde they: what nede we eny further witnes? We oure selves have herde of his awne mouthe.