Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign. And he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jedidah, the daughter of Adaiah of Boscath.
And he did the right in the sight of the LORD, and walked in all the way of David his father, and did not turn aside to the right or to the left.
And it happened in the eighteenth year of Josiah, the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam the scribe, to the house of the LORD, saying,
Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, so that he may count the silver which is brought into the house of the LORD, which the doorkeepers have gathered from the people.
And let them deliver it into the hand of the workers who have the oversight of the house of the Lord. And let them give it to the workers who are in the house of the LORD, in order to repair the breaks of the house,
to carpenters, and builders, and masons, and to buy timber and cut stone to repair the house.
Only, the silver that is given into their hand shall not be reckoned with them, for they are dealing in faithfulness.
And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the Book of the Law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
And Shaphan the scribe came to the king and brought the king word again, and said, Your servants have gathered the silver that was found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of the workers, who have the oversight of the house of the LORD.
And Shaphan the scribe showed the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.
And it happened when the king had heard the words of the Book of the Law, he tore his clothes.
And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Michaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asahiah a servant of the king, saying,
Go inquire of the LORD for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book which is found. For great is the wrath of the LORD which is kindled against us, because our fathers have not listened to the words of this book, to do according to all which is written concerning us.
And Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asahiah, went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe. And she lived in Jerusalem in the second  part. And they talked with her.
And she said to them, So says the LORD God of Israel, Tell the man who sent you tome,
So says the LORD, Behold, I will bring evil on this place and on the people of it, all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read;
because they have forsaken Me, and have burned incense to other gods, so that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore My wrath shall be kindled against this place, and it shall not be quenched.
But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of the LORD, so you shall say to him, So says the LORD God of Israel, The words which you have heard,
because your heart was tender and you have humbled yourself before the LORD, when you heard what I spoke against this place, and against its people (that they should become a waste and a curse, and have torn your clothes and wept before Me), I have heard you, says the LORD.
Behold, even so I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace. And your eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring on this place. And they brought the king this word again.