And Moses went out and spoke these words to all Israel.
And he said to them, I am a hundred and twenty years old today. I am not able any more to go out and to come in. And Jehovah has said to me, You shall not cross over this Jordan.
Jehovah your God will cross over before you; He shall destroy these nations from before you, and you shall possess them. Joshua is the one who shall cross over before you, as Jehovah has spoken.
And Jehovah shall do to them as He has done to Sihon and to Og, kings of the Amorites, and to their land, which He destroyed before them.
And Jehovah shall give them up before your face, and you shall do to them according to all the command which I have commanded you.
Be strong and brave. Do not fear them, or be afraid of them. For Jehovah your God is He who is going with you; He shall not fail you nor forsake you.
And Moses called for Joshua, and said to him before the eyes of all Israel, Be strong and brave, for you shall go in with this people to the land which Jehovah has sworn to their fathers, to give it to them, and you shall cause them to inherit it.
And Jehovah is He who is going before you; He Himself shall be with you; He shall not fail you nor forsake you. Do not fear nor be afraid.
And Moses wrote this law, and delivered it to the priests, the sons of Levi, those hearing the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and to all the elders of Israel.
And Moses commanded them, saying, At the end of seven years in the appointed time, the year of release, in the Feast of Tabernacles,
when all Israel comes in to see the face of Jehovah in the place which He chooses, you shall proclaim this law before all Israel, in their ears.
Assemble the people, men and women, and the little ones, and your alien who is within your gates, so that they may hear, and so that they may learn, and may fear Jehovah your God, and take heed to do all the words of this law;
and their sons who have not known shall hear, and shall learn to fear Jehovah your God all the days which you live on the land where you are crossing over the Jordan to possess it.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Behold, your days are coming near to die. Call Joshua, and present yourselves at the tabernacle of the congregation, and I shall charge him. And Moses and Joshua went, and they presented themselves at the tabernacle of the congregation.
And Jehovah appeared at the tabernacle in a pillar of cloud; and the pillar of cloud stood at the door of the tabernacle.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Behold, you shall sleep with your fathers, and this people shall rise up and go lusting after the gods of the strangers of the land into which they are going, and shall forsake Me, and shall break My covenant which I made with it.
And My anger shall burn against them in that day, and I shall forsake them and hide My face from them. And it shall be consumed, and many evils and distresses shall find this people . And it shall say in that day, Is it not because my God is not in my midst, that these evils have found me?
And I will completely hide My face in that day, because of all the evil which this people has done, for it shall turn to other gods.
Now, then, write this song for you, and teach it to the sons of Israel. Put it in their mouths, so that this song shall be for a witness to Me against the sons of Israel.
And I shall bring them into the land flowing with milk and honey, which I have sworn to their fathers. And you shall eat and be satisfied, and become fat, and shall turn to other gods; and they shall serve them, and despise Me, and break My covenant.
And it shall be, when many evils and distresses have found them, this song shall testify against them as a witness. For it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed. For I know their imagination which they are making today, before I bring them into the land which I have sworn.
And Moses wrote this song on that day, and taught it to the sons of Israel.
And He commanded Joshua the son of Nun, and said, Be strong and brave. For you shall bring the sons of Israel into the land which I have sworn to them, and I shall be with you.
And it happened, when Moses finished writing the words of this law in a book, until their conclusion,
that Moses commanded the Levites who bore the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, saying,
Take this book of the law, and you shall put it in the side of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah your God, so that it may be there for a witness against you.
For I have known your rebellion and your stiff neck. Behold, while I am yet alive with you this day, you have been rebellious against Jehovah. And how much more after my death!
Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, and I shall speak in their ears these words, and cause Heaven and the earth to testify against them.
For I know that after my death you shall utterly corrupt yourselves, and will turn aside from the way which I have commanded you. And evil shall happen to you in the latter end of the days because you shall do evil in the eyes of Jehovah, to make Him angry with the work of your hands.
And Moses spoke in the ears of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song, until their conclusion: