THERE is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath liberated me from the law of sin and of death.
For that which was impossible by the law, inasmuch as it was impotent through the flesh, God having sent his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in that flesh:
that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled by us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
For they who are after the flesh, mind the things of the flesh; but they who are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit.
For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.
Because the propensity of the flesh is inimical against God: for it is not in subjection to the law of God, neither indeed can it be.
They then who are in the flesh, cannot please God.
But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. But if any man hath not the Spirit of Christ, he is not his.
But if Christ be in you, the body indeed is dead on account of sin; but the Spirit is alive through righteousness.
But if the Spirit of him who hath raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he who raised Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his indwelling Spirit in you.
Truly then we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh.
For if ye live after the flesh, ye are ready to die: but if by the Spirit ye mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.
For as many as are guided by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.
For ye have not received a spirit of bondage again unto fear; but ye have received a Spirit of adoption, by which we cry, Abba, Father.
The same spirit beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God.
But if children, then heirs; heirs indeed of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be we suffer with him, that we may also together with him be glorified.
For I reckon that the sufferings of the present moment are not worthy to be placed against the future glory that shall be revealed to us.
For the eager expectation of the creation is waiting for the revelation of the children of God.
For the creation was made subject to vanity, not voluntarily, but by him who made it subject,
in hope that the same creation shall be emancipated from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God.
For we know that the whole creation groaneth together and travaileth in birth to this moment.
And not only so, but ourselves also, who have the first-fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan in ourselves, expecting the adoption, the redemption of our body.
For by hope we have been saved: now hope seen is not hope; for that which any man seeth how doth he yet hope for?
But if we hope for what we see not, we with patience expect it.
In like manner also the Spirit affords assistance to our infirmities: for even this, what we should pray for as we ought, we know not: but the same Spirit more abundantly maketh intercession for us with groanings unutterable.
Now he that trieth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, for he maketh intercession for the saints according to God’s will.
But we know that to those who love God all things work together for good, even to those who are called according to his purpose.
For whom he foreknew, he predestinated also to a conformity with the image of his Son, that he might be the first-begotten among many brethren.
But whom he predestinated, those also he called: and whom he called, those also he justified: but whom he justified, those also he glorified.
What then shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who shall be against us?
He who even spared not his own Son, but freely delivered him up for us all, how shall he not also, together with him, freely give us all things?
Who shall put in an accusation against the elect of God? God? He is their justifier.
Who is he that condemneth? Christ? He died, yea, rather, also is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us.
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall distress of circumstances, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or the sword?
As it is written, “That for thy sake we have been put to death the whole day long; we have been reckoned indeed as sheep for slaughter.”
But in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.
For I am assured that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor those to come,
nor exaltation, nor deepest depression, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.