And when the sabbath had passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come and anoint him.
And very early, on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they came to the sepulcher.
And they said among themselves: Who will roll away the stone for us from the door of the sepulcher?
for it was very great. And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away.
And they entered the sepulcher, and saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a white robe: and they were frightened.
But he said to them: Be not frightened; you seek Jesus the Nazarene, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here: see the place where they laid him.
But go, tell his disciples, and Peter, that he goes before you into Galilee; there you shall see him, as he told you.
And they went out, and fled from the sepulcher; for trembling and astonishment seized upon them. And they said nothing to any one, for they were afraid.
Now when Jesus had risen early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven demons.
And she went and told it to those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
And though they heard that he was alive, and had been seen by her, they did not believe.
After this he appeared in another form to two of them, as they walked and went into the country.
And they went and told it to the rest. But they did not believe them.
Afterward he appeared to the eleven as they reclined at table; and he reproached them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had risen.
And he said to them: Go into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.
He that believes and is immersed, shall be saved; he that believes not, shall be condemned.
And these signs shall attend those who believe. In my name they shall cast out demons; they shall speak with new tongues;
they shall take up serpents; and, if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.
The Lord, therefore, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven: and he sat down at the right hand of God.
And they went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following.