And the whole earth was of one language and of one speech.
And it came to pass, as they journeyed east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there.
And they said one to another, Come, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and they had slime for mortar.
And they said, Come, let us build a city for us, and a tower, and its top in the heavens. And let us make a name for us, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.
And Jehovah came down to see the city and the tower, which the sons of men built.
And Jehovah said, Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language, and this is what they begin to do. And now nothing will be withheld from them, which they propose to do.
Come, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand each other's speech.
So Jehovah scattered them abroad from there upon the face of all the earth, and they left off building the city.
Therefore the name of it was called Babel, because Jehovah there confounded the language of all the earth, and from there Jehovah scattered them abroad upon the face of all the earth.
These are the generations of Shem. Shem was a hundred years old, and begot Arphaxad two years after the flood.
And Shem lived five hundred years after he begot Arphaxad, and begot sons and daughters.
And Arphaxad lived a hundred and thirty-five years, and begot Cainan.
And Arphaxad lived after he had begotten Cainan, four hundred years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. And Cainan lived a hundred and thirty years and begot Shelah; and Cainan lived after he had begotten Shelah, three hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters, and died.
And Shelah lived thirty years, and begot Eber.
And Shelah lived four hundred and three years after he begot Eber, and begot sons and daughters.
And Eber lived thirty-four years, and begot Peleg.
And Eber lived four hundred and thirty years after he begot Peleg, and begot sons and daughters.
And Peleg lived thirty years, and begot Reu.
And Peleg lived two hundred and nine years after he begot Reu, and begot sons and daughters.
And Reu lived thirty-two years, and begot Serug.
And Reu lived two hundred and seven years after he begot Serug, and begot sons and daughters.
And Serug lived thirty years, and begot Nahor.
And Serug lived two hundred years after he begot Nahor, and begot sons and daughters.
And Nahor lived twenty-nine years, and begot Terah.
And Nahor lived a hundred and nineteen years after he begot Terah, and begot sons and daughters.
And Terah lived seventy years, and begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran begot Lot.
And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.
And Abram and Nahor took wives to themselves. The name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
And Sarai was barren; she had no child.
And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife. And they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan. And they came to Haran, and dwelt there.
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years, and Terah died in Haran.