And David spoke to the LORD the words of this song in the day the LORD had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul.
And he said, The LORD is my Rock, and my Fortress, and my Deliverer.
The God who is my Rock, in Him will I trust. He is my Shield, and the Horn of my salvation, my High Tower, and my Refuge, my Savior. You save me from violence.
I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised. And I shall be saved from my enemies.
When the waves of death encircled me, the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.
The sorrows of hell hemmed me in. The snares of death went in front of me.
In my distress I called upon the LORD and cried to my God. And he heard my voice out of His temple, and my cry entered into His ears.
And the earth shook and trembled. The foundations of the heavens moved and shook because He was angry.
Smoke went up out of His nostrils, and fire out of His mouth devoured. Coals were kindled by it.
He bowed the heavens also, and came down. And darkness was under His feet.
And He rode upon a cherub and did fly. And He was seen upon the wings of the wind.
And He made darkness coverings around Him, dark waters, thick clouds of the skies.
From the brightness before Him were coals of fire kindled.
The LORD thundered from the heavens, and the Most High uttered His voice.
And He sent out arrows, and scattered them; lightning, and troubled them.
And the channels of the sea appeared, the foundations of the world were uncovered, at the rebuking of the LORD, at the blast of the breath of His nostrils.
He sent from above, He took me. He drew me out of many waters.
He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me; for they were stronger than I.
They went before me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my stay.
He brought me forth also into a large place. He delivered me because He delighted in me.
The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands He has rewarded me.
For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
For all His judgments were before me. And as for His statutes, I did not depart from them.
I was also upright before Him, and have kept myself from my iniquity.
And the LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness in His eyes.
With the faithful You will show Yourself faithful; with the upright man You will show Yourself upright.
With the pure You will show Yourself pure; and with the perverted You will appear perverse.
And You will save the afflicted people, but Your eyes are on the proud, whom You bring low.
For You are my lamp, O LORD. And the LORD will lighten my darkness.
For by You I have run through a troop. By my God I have leaped over a wall.
As for God, His way is perfect. The word of the LORD is tried. He is a shield to all those who seek refuge in Him.
For who is God, except Jehovah? And who is a rock except our God?
God is my strength and power, and He makes my way perfect.
He makes my feet like hinds' feet, and causing me to stand on my high places.
He teaches my hands to war, so that my hands may bend a bow of bronze.
You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, and Your gentleness has made me great.
You have enlarged my steps under me, so that my feet did not slip.
I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them, and turned not again until I had finished them.
And I have crushed them and wounded them so that they could not rise. Yea, they have fallen under my feet.
For You have girded me with strength to battle. You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.
You have also given me the necks of my enemies; I silenced those who hate me.
They looked, but there was none to save; to the LORD, but He did not answer them.
Then I beat them as small as the dust of the earth, I stamped them like the mire of the streets and spread them out.
You have also delivered me from the strivings of my people, You have kept me the head of the nations. A people I knew not shall serve me.
Strangers shall submit themselves to me. As soon as they hear, they shall obey me.
Strangers shall fade away, and they shall be afraid out of their strongholds.
The LORD lives! And blessed be my Rock, and exalted be the God, the Rock of my salvation.
It is God who avenges me and who brings down the peoples under me,
and who brings me forth from my enemies. You also lift me up on high above those rising up against me. You deliver me from the violent man.
Therefore, I will give thanks to You, O LORD, among the heathen, and I will sing praises to Your name.
He is the Tower of salvation for His king, and He shows mercy to His anointed, to David and to his seed, forevermore.