When, Mordecai, came to know all that had been done, Mordecai rent his garments, and put on sackcloth, and ashes,—and went forth into the midst of the city, and cried out with an outcry loud and bitter;
and went in as far as before the gate of the king,—for, none, might enter into the gate of the king, clothed with sackcloth.
And, throughout every province, whithersoever the word of the king and his edict came, was great mourning to the Jews, and fasting and weeping, and lamentation,—sackcloth and ashes, were spread out for many.
So the maidens of Esther and her eunuchs went in and told her, and the queen writhed in great anguish,—and sent garments to clothe Mordecai, and to remove his sackcloth from off him, but he accepted them not.
Then called Esther for Hathach, one of the eunuchs of the king whom he had stationed before her, and charged him, concerning Mordecai,—to get to know what this was, and why this was.
So Hathach went forth unto Mordecai,—in the broadway of the city, which was before the gate of the king.
And Mordecai told him all that had befallen him,—and an exact statement of the silver, that Haman had promised to weigh out unto the treasuries of the king, for the Jews, to destroy them.
Also, a copy of the writing of the edict which had been given in Shusan to destroy them, gave he unto him, to shew unto Esther, and to tell her,—and to lay charge upon her, to go in unto the king—to make supplication unto him, and to make request before him, for her people.
And Hathach came in and told Esther, the words of Mordecai.
Then spake Esther unto Hathach,—and gave him charge, unto Mordecai:—
All the servants of the king, and the people of the provinces of the king, do know, that, whatsoever man or woman shall go in unto the king—into the inter court—who hath not been called, one, is his law, to put him to death, saving any to whom the king may hold out the golden sceptre, who then shall live,—but, I, have not been called to go in unto the king, these thirty days.
And they told Mordecai, the words of Esther.
Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther,—Do not think in thine own soul, to escape in the house of the king from among all the Jews.
But, if thou, do indeed hold thy peace, at this time, respite and deliverance, will be appointed for the Jews, from another place, but, thou, and thy father’s house, will perish,—and who knoweth whether, for a time such as this, thou hast attained unto the royal estate?
Then Esther commanded, to answer Mordecai:—
Go! gather ye together all the Jews who are to be found in Shusan, and fast ye for me—and neither eat nor drink—three days, night nor day, and, I and my maidens, will fast so,—and, in this manner, will I go in unto the king, though it is not according to the law, and, when I have perished, I have perished!
So Mordecai departed,—and did according to all that Esther had charged upon him.