AND it came to pass, as the multitude were thronging upon him, in order to hear the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret:
and he saw two vessels a-ground near the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them, and washing their nets.
Then he went on board one of the vessels, which was Simon’s, and desired him to put off a little from the land: and sitting down, he taught the multitudes out of the vessel.
And when he ceased speaking, he said to Simon, Go off into deep water, and shoot your nets for a draught.
And Simon answering, said unto him, Sir, we have been toiling all night, and have taken nothing: but at thy command I will shoot the net.
And having done so, they inclosed a prodigious multitude of fishes; and their net was broken.
And they made signals to their partners in the other vessels, that they should come to their assistance. And they came, and filled both the vessels, so that they were ready to founder.
Then Simon Peter seeing it, fell down on his knees before Jesus, saying, Go from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord!
For amazement had seized on him, and on all who were with him, at the draught of fishes which they had taken:
as also on James and John the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Fear not: henceforward thou shalt catch men.
And when they had brought their vessels on shore, they left all, and followed him.
And it came to pass as he was just at one of the cities, behold, a man full of leprosy! and seeing Jesus, he fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And he stretching out his hand touched him, saying, I will: be thou cleansed. And instantly the leprosy departed from him.
And he commanded him to tell no man: but go shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy purification, as Moses enjoined, for a testimony unto them.
Now the discourse concerning him more and more spread through the country: and vast multitudes came together to hear him, and to be cured by him of their disorders.
But he himself was in the desert for retirement and prayer.
And on a certain day it happened that he was teaching, and there were sitting Pharisees, and doctors of the law, who had come from every town of Galilee, and Judea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord for healing them was exercised.
And behold, men carried on a couch a man who was a paralytic; and sought to bring him into the house, and to place him before him.
And not discovering by what means they could introduce him, because of the crowd, they went up to the roof, and through the tiling let him down with his little couch into the midst, before Jesus.
And seeing their faith, he saith to him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.
And the scribes and Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this that speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?
And Jesus knowing their reasoning, in reply said to them, Why do ye reason in your hearts?
for which is the easier? to say, Thy sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise and walk?
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority upon earth to forgive sins, (he saith to the paralytic,) I say to thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thy house.
And instantly he rose up before them, took up that on which he had lain, and went away to his house, giving glory to God.
And an extacy of admiration seized upon them all, and they glorified God; and they were filled with awe, saying, We have seen wondrously strange things to-day.
And after these things he went out, and saw a farmer of the taxes, named Levi, sitting at the custom-house: and he said unto him, Follow me.
And leaving all behind, he rose, and followed him.
And Levi made him a great entertainment at his house and there was a great number of publicans and others, sitting at table with them.
And their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?
And Jesus answering said unto them, They who are well, have no need of a physician: but they who have illness.
I came not to call righteous men, but sinners, to repentance.
Then said they unto him, Why do the disciples of John observe frequent fasts, and make prayers; but thine are eating and drinking?
And he said unto them, Can you make the children of the bridechamber fast, as long as the bridegroom is with them?
But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, then shall they fast in those days.
Then he spake a parable unto them, No man putteth a patch of new cloth on an old garment; but if otherwise, both the new makes a rent, and the patch from the new is not of a piece with the old.
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; for if he doth, the new wine will burst the bottles, and it will itself be spilled, and the bottles be destroyed.
But new wine should be put into new bottles; then both are preserved.
And no man drinking old wine, immediately desires new: for he saith, The old is better.