But, after the tumult had ceased, Paul, sending for the disciples and exhorting them, took leave, and went forth to be journeying unto Macedonia.
Passing through those parts, however, and exhorting them with much discourse, he came into Greece;
and, spending three months, when a plot was laid against him by the Jews, as he was about to sail to Syria, he determined to turn back through Macedonia.
Now there were accompanying him, Sopater, son of Pyrrhus a Beroean; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe and Timothy; and, of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.
And, these, came and were waiting for us at Troas.
And, we, sailed forth, after the days of unleavened bread, from Philippi, and came unto them in Troas in five days, where we tarried seven days.
And, on the first of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul went on to discourse with them, being about to depart on the morrow; and he prolonged his discourse until midnight.
Now there were a good many torches in the upper room, where we were gathered together.
And there sat, a certain young man by name Eutychus, in the window, who was getting overpowered by a deep sleep; and, while Paul was discoursing yet further, being overpowered by his sleep, he fell, from the third story, down, and was taken up dead.
Going down, however, Paul fell upon him, and, embracing him, said—Be not making confusion; for, his soul, is, in him.
And, going up, and breaking the loaf, and tasting,—for a good while also conversing, until dawn, thus, he departed.
And they brought the boy alive, and were comforted beyond measure.
And, we, going forward unto the ship, set sail for Assos, from thence being about to take up Paul; for, so, had he arranged, being about, himself, to go on foot.
And, when he fell in with us in Assos, we took him on board, and came into Mitylene;
and, from thence sailing away on the morrow, we came over against Chios, and, on the next day, we thrust aside into Samos, and, on the succeeding day, we came into Miletus.
For Paul had determined to sail past Ephesus, lest he should happen to lose time in Asia; for he hastened, if it were possible for him, against the day of Pentecost, to arrive, in Jerusalem.
But, from Miletus, he sent unto Ephesus, and called for the elders of the assembly.
And, when they were come to him, he said unto them—Ye yourselves, well know, from the first day when I set foot in Asia, in what manner came to be with you all the time,
doing service unto the Lord, with all humility and tears, and temptations which befell me through the plots of the Jews:
in what manner I in nowise shrank from announcing unto you anything that was profitable and teaching you publicly and in your homes;
bearing full witness, both to Jews and to Greeks, as to the repentance due unto God, and as to belief on our Lord Jesus.
And, now, lo! I, bound in my spirit, am journeying unto Jerusalem; the things which therein shall befall me, not knowing,—
save that, the Holy Spirit, from city to city, doth bear me full witness, saying that, bonds and tribulations, await me.
But, for no cause whatever, am I making my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my course and the ministry which I have received from the Lord Jesus, to bear full witness as to the good news of the favour of God.
And, now, lo! I, know that, no more, shall ye see my face,—ye all, among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom.
Wherefore I take you to witness, on this very day, that, pure am I from the blood of all;
for I have not shrunk from announcing all the counsel of God unto you.
Be taking heed unto yourselves, and unto all the little flock in which the Holy Spirit hath set, you, as overseers,—to be shepherding the assembly of God which he hath acquired through means of the blood of his own.
I, know, that there will enter, after my departure, grievous wolves into your midst, not sparing the little flock;
and, from among your own selves, will arise men speaking distorted things, to draw away the disciples after themselves.
Wherefore, be on the watch, remembering that, for three years, night and day, I gave myself no rest, with tears, admonishing each one.
Now, therefore, I commend you unto the Lord, and unto his word of favour,—which is able to build up and give the inheritance among all the hallowed ones.
The silver or gold or apparel of no one, did I covet:
yourselves, acknowledge that, for my necessities and for those who were with me, hard wrought these hands!
In all things, I gave you to understand, that, thus toiling, it behoves to be helping the weak, also to be keeping in mind the words of the Lord Jesus, that, he himself, said—Happy is it, rather to give than to receive!
And, these things saying, kneeling down with them all, he prayed.
And they all wept much, and, falling upon Paul’s neck, they were tenderly kissing him;
being most distressed for the word which he had said,—That, no more, should they, his face, behold. And they accompanied him unto the ship.