And He has made you alive, who were once dead in trespasses and sins,
in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience;
among whom we also had our way of life in times past, in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the thoughts, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others.
But God, who is rich in mercy, for His great love with which He loved us
(even when we were dead in sins) has made us alive together with Christ (by grace you are saved),
and has raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus,
so that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of His grace in His kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.
For by grace you are saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God,
not of works, lest anyone should boast.
For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to good works, which God has before ordained that we should walk in them.
Therefore remember that you, the nations, in time past were in the flesh, who are called Uncircumcision by that which is called the Circumcision in the flesh made by hands;
and that at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world.
But now in Christ Jesus you who were once afar off are made near by the blood of Christ.
For He is our peace, He making us both one, and He has broken down the middle wall of partition between us,
having abolished in His flesh the enmity (the Law of commandments contained in ordinances) so that in Himself He might make the two into one new man, making peace between them;
and so that He might reconcile both to God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity in Himself.
And He came and preached peace to you who were afar off, and to those who were near.
For through Him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father.
Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God,
and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone,
in whom every building having been fitly framed together, grows into a holy sanctuary in the Lord;
in whom you also are built together for a dwelling place of God through the Spirit.