For the Leader; upon Aijeleth ha-Shahar. A Psalm of David.
My G-d, my G-d, why hast Thou forsaken me, and art far from my help at the words of my cry?
O my G-d, I call by day, but Thou answerest not; and at night, and there is no surcease for me.
Yet Thou art holy, O Thou that art enthroned upon the praises of Israel.
In Thee did our fathers trust; they trusted, and Thou didst deliver them.
Unto Thee they cried, and escaped; in Thee did they trust, and were not ashamed.
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.
All they that see me laugh me to scorn; they shoot out the lip, they shake the head:
'Let him commit himself unto HaShem! let Him rescue him; let Him deliver him, seeing He delighteth in him.'
For Thou art He that took me out of the womb; Thou madest me trust when I was upon my mother's breasts.
Upon Thee I have been cast from my birth; Thou art my G-d from my mother's womb.
Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.
Many bulls have encompassed me; strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
They open wide their mouth against me, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint; my heart is become like wax; it is melted in mine inmost parts.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my throat; and Thou layest me in the dust of death.
For dogs have encompassed me; a company of evil-doers have inclosed me; like a lion, they are at my hands and my feet.
I may count all my bones; they look and gloat over me.
They part my garments among them, and for my vesture do they cast lots.
But Thou, O HaShem, be not far off; O Thou my strength, hasten to help me.
Deliver my soul from the sword; mine only one from the power of the dog.
Save me from the lion's mouth; yea, from the horns of the wild-oxen do Thou answer me.
I will declare Thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the congregation will I praise Thee.
'Ye that fear HaShem, praise Him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify Him; and stand in awe of Him, all ye the seed of Israel.
For He hath not despised nor abhorred the lowliness of the poor; neither hath He hid His face from him; but when he cried unto Him, He heard.'
From Thee cometh my praise in the great congregation; I will pay my vows before them that fear Him.
Let the humble eat and be satisfied; let them praise HaShem that seek after Him; may your heart be quickened for ever!
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto HaShem; and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before Thee.
For the kingdom is HaShem'S; and He is the ruler over the nations.
All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship; all they that go down to the dust shall kneel before Him, even he that cannot keep his soul alive.
A seed shall serve him; it shall be told of the L-rd unto the next generation.
They shall come and shall declare His righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that He hath done it.