Brethren, mine hearts desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they might be saued.
For I beare them record, that they haue the zeale of God, but not according to knowledge.
For they, being ignorant of the righteousnes of God, and going about to stablish their owne righteousnes, haue not submitted themselues to the righteousnes of God.
For Christ is the end of the Law for righteousnes vnto euery one that beleeueth.
For Moses thus describeth the righteousnes which is of the Lawe, That the man which doeth these things, shall liue thereby.
But the righteousnes which is of faith, speaketh on this wise, Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heauen? (that is to bring Christ from aboue)
Or, Who shall descend into the deepe? (that is to bring Christ againe from the dead)
But what sayth it? The worde is neere thee, euen in thy mouth, and in thine heart. This is the worde of faith which we preach.
For if thou shalt confesse with thy mouth the Lord Iesus, and shalt beleeue in thine heart, that God raised him vp from the dead, thou shalt be saued:
For with the heart man beleeueth vnto righteousnes, and with the mouth man confesseth to saluation.
For the Scripture saith, Whosoeuer beleeueth in him, shall not be ashamed.
For there is no difference betweene the Iewe and the Grecian: for he that is Lord ouer all, is rich vnto all, that call on him.
For whosoeuer shall call vpon the Name of the Lord, shalbe saued.
But how shall they call on him, in whome they haue not beleeued? and how shall they beleeue in him, of whom they haue not heard? and howe shall they heare without a preacher?
And how shall they preach, except they be sent? as it is written, Howe beautifull are the feete of them which bring glad tidings of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!
But they haue not all obeyed ye Gospel: for Esaias saith, Lord, who hath beleeued our report?
Then faith is by hearing, and hearing by the worde of God.
But I demaund, Haue they not heard? No doubt their sound went out through all the earth, and their wordes into the endes of the worlde.
But I demaund, Did not Israel knowe God? First Moses sayth, I will prouoke you to enuie by a nation that is not my nation, and by a foolish nation I will anger you.
And Esaias is bolde, and saith, I was found of them that sought me not, and haue bene made manifest to them that asked not after me.
And vnto Israel hee sayth, All the day long haue I stretched foorth mine hand vnto a disobedient, and gainesaying people.