Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children;
and walk in love, as Christ also loved you, and gave himself for you an offering and a sacrifice to God, of a sweet odor.
But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as becometh saints,
neither obscenity, nor foolish talking, nor indecent jesting, which are not becoming; but rather giving of thanks.
For of this ye are sure, since ye know that no whore-monger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
Let no one deceive you with vain words; for because of these things the wrath of God cometh upon the sons of disobedience.
Be not therefore partakers with them.
For ye were once darkness, but now ye are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light,
—for the fruit of the light is in all goodness, and righteousness, and truth,—
proving what is acceptable to the Lord;
and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
For the things done in secret by them it is a shame even to speak of.
But all things, when reproved, are made manifest by the light; for whatever maketh manifest is light.
Wherefore he saith, "Awake, thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ will give thee light."
See then that ye walk circumspectly; not as unwise men, but as wise;
buying up for yourselves opportunities, because the days are evil.
Wherefore be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is.
And be not drunk with wine, in which is dissoluteness, but be filled with the Spirit,
speaking to one another in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
giving thanks always for all things to God, the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of Christ.
Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord;
for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church,—he, who is the Saviour of the body.
But as the church is subject to Christ, so let wives be to their husbands in everything.
Husbands, love your wives, as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for it,
that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it by the bath of the water in the word;
that he himself might present to himself the church, glorious, having no spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish.
In like manner husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his own wife loveth himself;
for no one ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as Christ doth the church;
for we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
"For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they two shall be one flesh."
This mystery is a great one; but I am speaking of Christ and of the church.
However, do ye also severally love each one his own wife as himself; and let the wife see that she reverence her husband.