And there was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
This man came to him by night, and said to him, Rabbi, we know that thou hast come as a teacher from God; for no one can do these signs which thou doest, unless God be with him.
Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly do I say to thee, Unless a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus saith to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter his mother’s womb a second time, and be born?
Jesus answered, Truly, truly do I say to thee, Unless a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of heaven.
That which is born of the flesh, is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit, is spirit.
Marvel not that I said to thee, Ye must be born again.
The wind bloweth where it will; and thou hearest the sound thereof, but knowest not whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to him, How can these things be?
Jesus answered and said to him, Art thou the teacher of Israel, and understandest not these things?
Truly, truly do I say to thee, We speak that which we know, and testify that which we have seen; and ye receive not our testimony.
If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how will ye believe if I tell you heavenly things?
And no one hath ascended into heaven, but he who came down from heaven, even the Son of man.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up
that every one who believeth in him may have everlasting life.
For God so loved the world, that he gave the only begotten Son, that every one who believeth in him may not perish, but may have everlasting life.
For God sent not the Son into the world to condemn the world, but that through him the world might be saved.
He that believeth in him is not condemned; he that believeth not hath already been condemned, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation, that the light hath come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light; for their deeds were evil.
For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, and cometh not to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
But he that doeth the truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.
After these things Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judaea; and there he remained with them, and baptized.
And John also was baptizing in Ænon, near Salim, because there was much water there; and they came, and were baptized.
For John was not yet thrown into prison.
Then there arose a question on the part of John’s disciples with a Jew about purifying.
And they came to John, and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with thee beyond the Jordan, to whom thou hast borne witness, behold, he baptizeth, and all men are going to him.
John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, unless it be given him from heaven.
Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I was sent before that man.
He that hath the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice. This my joy then hath become full.
He must increase, but I must decrease.
He that cometh from above is above all. He that is from the earth is earthly, and speaketh earthly things; he that cometh from heaven
testifieth what he hath seen and heard; and no one receiveth his testimony.
He that hath received his testimony hath set his seal that God is true.
For he whom God sent speaketh the words of God; for he giveth not the Spirit by measure.
The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.
He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting life; and he that disobeyeth the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him.