When Jesus had spoken these things, he went out with his disciples beyond the brook Kedron, where was a garden, which he and his disciples entered.
And Judas, who delivered him up, also knew the place, because Jesus often went thither with his disciples.
Judas, then, having received the band of soldiers and attendants from the chief priests and Pharisees, came thither with torches and lamps and weapons.
Then Jesus, knowing all things that were coming upon him, went forth, and said to them: Whom do you seek?
They answered him: Jesus the Nazarene. Jesus said to them: I am he. Judas, also, who delivered him up, was standing among them.
Then, when he said to them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.
Then he asked them again: Whom do you seek? They said: Jesus the Nazarene.
Jesus answered: I have told you that I am he. If, then, you seek me, let these go away.
This he said, that the word might be fulfilled which he had spoken: Of those whom thou hast given me; I have lost none.
Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it, and struck the servant of the chief priest, and cut off his right ear. The name of the servant was Malchus.
Then Jesus said to Peter: Put up your sword into its scabbard. Shall I not drink the cup that my Father has given me?
Then the band of soldiers, and the officer, and the attendants of the Jews, took Jesus and bound him,
and led him first to Annas; for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was chief priest that year.
It was Caiaphas who had given counsel to the Jews, that it was profitable that one man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. And that other disciple was acquainted with the chief priest, and he went in with Jesus into the palace of the chief priest.
But Peter stood without near the door. Then the other disciple, who was acquainted with the chief priest, went out and spoke to the door-keeper, and brought Peter in.
Then the maid-servant who kept the door said to Peter: Are you not also one of the disciples of this man? He said: I am not.
And the servants and the attendants, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold, were standing and warming themselves. And Peter stood with them, and warmed himself.
Then the chief priest questioned Jesus concerning his disciples and his teaching.
Jesus answered him: I have spoken openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, where the Jews come together, and in secret I have spoken nothing.
Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard, what things I said to them. Behold, they know what I have said.
When he had spoken thus, one of the attendants, who was standing by, struck Jesus with his open hand, saying: Do you answer the chief priest thus?
Jesus answered him: If I have spoken evil, testify of the evil; but if well, why do you strike me?
Then Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas the chief priest.
And Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then they said to him: Are not you also one of his disciples? He denied, and said: I am not.
One of the servants of the chief priest, who was a kinsman of him whose ear Peter had cut off, said: Did I not see you in the garden with him?
Then Peter denied again. And immediately the cock crew.
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the governor’s palace. It was the morning hour. And, in order that they might not be denied, but that they might eat the passover, they did not go into the governor’s palace.
Then Pilate came out to them, and said: What accusation do you bring against this man?
They answered and said to him: If this man were not an evil-doer, we would not have delivered him to you.
Then Pilate said to them: Take him yourselves, and judge him according to your law. Then the Jews said to him: It is not lawful for us to put any one to death;
that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying by what death he was about to die.
Then Pilate again entered the governor’s palace, and called Jesus, and said to him: Are you the king of the Jews?
Jesus answered him: Do you say this of yourself, or did others speak to you of me?
Pilate answered: Am I a Jew? Your own nation, and the chief priests have delivered you to me; what have you done?
Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world; if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I might not be delivered up to the Jews. But now my kingdom is not hence.
Then Pilate said to him: You are a king, then? Jesus answered; You say that I am a king. For this purpose was I born, and for this purpose I came into the world, that I might testify to the truth. Every one that is of the truth, hears my voice.
Pilate said to him: What is truth?   And when he had said this, he again came out to the Jews, and said to them: I find no fault in him.
But you have a custom, that I release to you one during the passover. Are you willing, then, that I should release to you the king of the Jews?
They all, then, cried out, saying: Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.