And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Command the sons of Israel and say to them: When you come into the land of Canaan, this is the land that shall fall to you for an inheritance, the land of Canaan with its borders.
And your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the border of Edom, and your south border shall be the furthest coast of the Salt Sea eastward.
And your border shall turn from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim and pass on to Zin. And its limit shall be from the south to Kadesh-barnea, and shall go on to Hazar-addar, and pass on to Azmon.
And the border shall turn from Azmon to the torrent of Egypt, and the end of it shall be at the sea.
And for the western border, you shall even have the Great Sea for a border. This shall be your west border.
And this shall be your northern border. From the Great Sea you shall point out for you Mount Hor.
From Mount Hor you shall point your border to the entrance of Hamath. And the end of the border shall be at Zedad.
And the border shall go on to Ziphron, and the end of it shall be at Hazar-enan. This shall be your north border.
And you shall point out your east border from Hazar-enan to Shepham.
And the coast shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain. And the border shall go down, and shall reach to the side of the Sea of Chinnereth eastward.
And the border shall go down to Jordan, and the end of it shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land with the borders of it all around.
And Moses commanded the sons of Israel saying, This is the land which you shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to give to the nine tribes and to the half tribe.
For the tribe of the sons of Reuben according to the house of their fathers, and the tribe of the sons of Gad according to the house of their fathers. And half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance.
The two tribes and the half tribe have received their inheritance on this side Jordan at Jericho eastward, toward the sunrise.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to you: Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun.
And you shall take one ruler from every tribe, to divide the land by inheritance.
And the names of the men are these. Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
And of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
And of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
And the ruler of the tribe of the sons of Dan, Bukki the son of Jogli.
The ruler of the sons of Joseph, for the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
And the ruler of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
And the ruler of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
And the ruler of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, Paltiel, the son of Azzan.
And the ruler of the tribe of the sons of Asher, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
And the ruler of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.
These are the ones to whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance to the sons of Israel in the land of Canaan.