Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days he ascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
Then the prince of the priests and the principals of the Jews informed him against Paul and besought him,
asking for grace against him, that he would send for him to Jerusalem, they placing an ambush in the way to kill him.
But Festus answered that Paul should be kept at Caesarea and that he himself would depart shortly [there].
Let them, therefore, said he, who among you are able, go down with [me] and accuse this man, if there is anything in him.
And when he had tarried among them no more than ten days, he went down unto Caesarea and the next day, sitting on the judgement seat, commanded Paul to be brought.
And when he was come, the Jews who came down from Jerusalem stood round about and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul, which they could not prove.
While he answered for himself, Neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar have I sinned [in] anything at all.
But Festus, willing to ingratiate himself with the Jews, answered Paul and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me?
Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar's judgement seat, where I ought to be judged; to the Jews I have done no wrong, as thou very well knowest.
For if I am an offender or have committed anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; but if there are none of these things of which these accuse me, no one may deliver me unto them. I appeal unto Caesar.
Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? unto Caesar shalt thou go.
And after certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came unto Caesarea to salute Festus.
And when they had been there many days, Festus declared Paul's cause unto the king, saying, There is a certain man left in bonds by Felix,
about whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the princes of the priests and the elders of the Jews informed [me], desiring [to have] vengeance against him.
To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans to deliver any man to die, before the one who is accused is face to face with his accusers and is given license to answer for himself concerning the crime laid against him.
Therefore, when they were come here, without any delay on the next day I sat on the judgement seat and commanded the man to be brought forth.
Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought no accusation of such things as I supposed,
but had certain questions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
And because I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked [him] whether he would go to Jerusalem and there be judged of these matters.
But when Paul had appealed to be reserved unto the hearing of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept until I might send him to Caesar.
Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would also hear the man myself. Tomorrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.
And the next day when Agrippa was come and Bernice, with great pomp, and was entered into the place of hearing, with the tribunals and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment, Paul was brought forth.
Then Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men who are here present with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews have dealt with me, both at Jerusalem and [also] here, crying that he ought not to live any longer.
But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death and that he himself has appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.
Of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my lord. Therefore I have brought him forth before you, and specially before thee, O king Agrippa, that, after examination, I might have something to write.
For it seems to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not to signify the crimes [laid] against him.: