And it shall be when all these things have come on you, the blessing and the curse which I have set before you among all the nations where Jehovah your God shall drive you, you shall bring back to your heart these things ;
and shall turn back to Jehovah your God and listen to His voice, according to all that I am commanding you day, you and your sons with all your heart, and with all your soul;
then Jehovah your God will turn your captivity, and He will have pity on you, and will return and gather you from all the nations where Jehovah your God has scattered you.
If you are cast out to the end of the heavens, Jehovah your God shall gather you from there, and He shall take you from there.
And Jehovah your God shall bring you into the land which your fathers have possessed, and you shall inherit it; and He shall do you good and multiply you above your fathers.
And Jehovah your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your seed, to love Jehovah your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, that you may live.
And Jehovah your God will put all these curses on your enemies, and on those that hate you, who have persecuted you.
And you shall return and obey the voice of Jehovah, and do all His commandments which I am commanding you today.
And Jehovah your God will make you abundant in every work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, for good. For Jehovah will again rejoice over you for good, as He rejoiced over your fathers.
For you shall listen to the voice of Jehovah your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes which are written in the book of this law. For you shall turn back toward Jehovah your God, with all your heart and with all your soul.
For this command which I am commanding you day is not too wonderful for you, nor is it too far off.
It is not in the heavens that you should say, Who shall go up into the heavens for us, and bring it to us, and cause us to hear it, that we may do it?
And it is not beyond the sea that you should say, Who shall cross over for us to the region beyond the sea and take it for us, and cause us to hear it, that we may do it?
For the word is very near to you, in your mouth and in your heart, that you may do it.
Behold, I have set before you today life and good and death and evil,
in that I am commanding you today to love Jehovah your God, to walk in His ways, and to keep His commands and His statutes, and His judgments, and you shall live and multiply, and Jehovah your God shall bless you in the land where you are going in, to possess it.
But if you turn away your heart, and you do not listen, and are drawn on, even you will bow down to other gods, and serve them;
I have declared to you today that you shall certainly perish. You shall not prolong your days in the land to which you are crossing the Jordan, to go in there to possess it.
I call Heaven and earth to witness against you today that I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse. Therefore, choose life, that you may live, you and your seed,
to love Jehovah your God, to listen to His voice, and to cleave to Him, for He is your life, and the length of your days live in the land which Jehovah has sworn to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give it to them.