My little children, I write these things to you so that ye may not sin. And if any man does sin, we have an advocate with the Father-righteous Jesus Christ.
And he is the atonement for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the whole world.
And by this we know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
He who says, I know him, and does not keep his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in this man.
But whoever keeps his word, truly in this man the love of God is fully perfected. By this we know that we are in him.
He who claims to abide in him he also ought so to walk just as that man walked.
Brothers, I write no new commandment to you, but an old commandment that ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that ye heard from the beginning.
Again, a new commandment I write to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light now shines.
He who claims to be in the light, and hates his brother, is in the darkness until now.
He who loves his brother abides in the light, and no cause of stumbling is in him.
But he who hates his brother is in the darkness, and he goes about in the darkness, and knows not where he goes, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
I write to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven you through his name.
I write to you, fathers, because ye have known him from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because ye have overcome evil. I write to you, children, because ye know the Father.
I wrote to you, fathers, because ye have know him from the beginning. I wrote to you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and ye have overcome evil.
Love not the world, nor the things in the world. If any man loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
Because everything in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the arrogance of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.
And the world passes away, and the lust of it, but he who does the will of God abides into the age.
Children, it is the last hour. And as ye heard that the antichrist comes, and now many antichrists have developed, from which we know that it is the last hour.
They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they were of us, they would have continued with us, but-so that they might be made known, that they are not all of us.
And ye have an anointing from the Holy, and ye know all the things.
I wrote to you not because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and because no lie is of the truth.
Who is the liar if not he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son.
Every man who denies the Son, also does not have the Father.
Therefore ye, let what ye heard from the beginning abide in you. If what ye heard from the beginning abides in you, ye also will abide in the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise that he promised us: the eternal life.
I wrote these things to you concerning those who lead you astray.
And for you, the anointing that ye received from him abides in you, and ye have no need that any man teach you, but as the same anointing teaches you about all things, and is true and is no lie, and just as it taught you, ye will abide in him.
And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he is made known, we may have confidence, and not be shamed by him at his coming.
If ye know that he is righteous, know ye that every man doing righteousness has been begotten of him.