And it canto to pass, after this, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them,—and took Gath and her villages, out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he smote Moab,—and the Moabites became servants to David, bearers of a present.
And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah, towards Hamath,—as he went to establish his hold of the river Euphrates.
And David captured from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen,—and David destroyed all the chariots, saving that he reserved from them a hundred chariots.
And, when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians, twenty-two thousand men.
And David put [garrisons] in Syria of Damascus, and so it was that the Syrians became, David’s, servants, bearers of a present,—so Yahweh gave victory to David, whithersoever he went.
And David took the shields of gold, that were upon the servants of Hadarezer,—and brought them to Jerusalem;
also, from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadarezer, David took very much bronze,—therewith, did Solomon make the sea of bronze, and the pillars, and the vessels of bronze.
And, when Tou, king of Hamath, heard that David had smitten all the force of Hadarezer king of Zobah,
he sent Hadoram his son unto King David, to ask after his welfare, and to bless him, because he had made war against Hadarezer and had smitten him, for, a man making wars against Tou, had been Hadarezer,—and [he had with him] all manner of vessels of gold and silver and bronze;
them also, did King David hallow unto Yahweh, with the silver and the gold, that he bare away from all the nations,—from Edom, and from Moab, and from the sons of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.
Moreover, Abishai, son of Zeruiah, smote Edom, in the Valley of Salt,—eighteen thousand;
and set, in Edom, garrisons, and all Edom became servants unto David,—and Yahweh gave David the victory, whithersoever he went.
So David reigned over all Israel,—and he was executing justice and righteousness for all his people;
and, Joab, son of Zeruiah, was over the army,—and, Jehoshaphat, son of Elihud, was recorder;
and, Zadok, son of Ahitub, and Abimelech son of Abiathar, were priests,—and, Shavsha, was scribe;
and, Benaiah, son of Jehoiada, was over the Cherethites, and the Pelethites,—and, the sons of David, were first, in attendance on the king.