A wise son listeneth to the instruction of his father; But a scoffer listeneth not to rebuke.
By the fruit of a man’s mouth he shall eat good; But the appetite of transgressors shall be sated with violence.
He who keepeth his mouth keepeth his life; But destruction shall be to him who openeth wide his lips.
The appetite of the sluggard longeth, and hath nothing; But the appetite of the diligent is fully satisfied.
A righteous man hateth words of falsehood; But a wicked man causeth disgrace and shame.
Righteousness preserveth him who is upright in his way; But wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
There is who maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing, Who maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.
A man’s wealth is the ransom of his life; But the poor man heareth no threatenings.
The light of the righteous shall rejoice; But the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
By pride cometh only contention; But with the well-advised is wisdom.
Wealth gotten by vanity will become small; But he who gathereth it into the hand increaseth it.
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick; But the desire accomplished is a tree of life.
He that despiseth the word shall be destroyed; But he who revereth the commandment shall be rewarded.
The instruction of the wise is a fountain of life; By it men escape from the snares of death.
A good understanding winneth favor; But the way of transgressors is hard.
Every prudent man acteth with knowledge; But a fool spreadeth abroad his folly.
A wicked messenger falleth into trouble; But a faithful ambassador is health.
Poverty and shame are for him who rejecteth instruction; But he that regardeth reproof shall come to honor.
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul; But it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil.
He who walketh with wise men shall be wise; But the companion of fools shall be destroyed.
Calamity pursueth the wicked; But the righteous is rewarded with good.
The good man leaveth his substance to his children’s children; But the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.
There is much food from the fallow-ground of the poor; But there is who is brought low for want of uprightness.
He that spareth the rod hateth his son; But he who loveth him chasteneth him early.
The righteous man eateth to the satisfying of his desire; But the stomach of the wicked suffereth want.