And thou shalt make an altar, for burning incense, of acacia wood, shalt thou make it:
a cubit, the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof four square, shall it be,—and two cubits, the height thereof, of the same, [shall be] the horns thereof,
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold the top thereof, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof,-and thou shalt make to it a border of gold round about.
And, two rings of gold, shalt thou make to it, under the border thereof upon the two corners thereof, shalt thou make them on the two sides thereof,—so shall they become receptacles for the staves, to lift it therewith.
And thou shalt make the staves of acacia wood,—and overlay them with gold.
And thou shalt place it before the veil, which is by the ark of the testimony,—before the propitiatory which is upon the testimony, where I will meet thee.
And Aaron shall burn thereon fragrant incense,—morning by morning, when he trimmeth the lamps, shall he burn it;
and, when Aaron lighteth the lamps, between the evenings, shall he burn it,—a continual incense before Yahweh, to your generations.
Ye shall not cause to ascend thereupon strange incense, nor an ascending-sacrifice, nor a meal-offering,—and a drink offering, shall ye not pour out thereupon.
But Aaron shall put a propitiatory-covering upon the horns thereof, once in the year: of the blood of the sin-bearer for propitiatory-coverings, once in the year, shall he put a propitiatory-covering thereupon to your generations, most holy, it is to Yahweh.
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying—
When thou takest the sum of the sons of Israel, by their numberings, then shall they give every man a propitiatory-covering for his soul to Yahweh, when they are numbered,—that there may be among them no plague when they are numbered.
This, shall they give—every one that passeth over to them that have been numbered—a half-shekel by the shekel of the sanctuary,—the shekel is twenty gerahs—the half-shekel, shall be a heave-offering to Yahweh.
All who pass over to the numbered, from twenty years old and upwards, shall give the heave-offering of Yahweh.
The rich, shall not give more, and the poor, shall not give less, than the half-shekel,—when they give the heave-offering of Yahweh, to put a propitiatory-covering over your souls.
So then thou shalt take the silver for the propitiatory-coverings from the sons of Israel, and shalt expend it upon the service of the tent of meeting,—thus shall it be for the sons of Israel as a memorial before Yahweh, to put a propitiatory-covering over your souls.
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying—
And thou shalt make a laver of bronze, and its stand of bronze for bathing,—and thou shalt place it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and shalt put therein water.
So shall Aaron and his sons bathe thereat,—their hands, and their feet.
When they enter the tent of meeting, they shall bathe with water so shall they not die,—or when they approach unto the altar to minister, to burn as incense an altar-flame to Yahweh:
so then they shall bathe their hands and their feet and shall not die,—and it shall be to them an age-abiding statute, to him and to his seed to their generations.
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying—
Thou, therefore, take to thee—principal spices,—self-flowing myrrh, five hundred, and fragrant cinnamon, half as much, two hundred and fifty, and, fragrant cane, two hundred and fifty;
and, cassia, five hundred, by the shekel of the sanctuary,—and, oil olive, a hin.
And thou shalt make it an oil for holy anointing, a compounded perfume the work of a perfumer,—an oil for holy anointing, shall it be.
And thou shalt anoint therewith the tent of meeting,—and the ark of the testimony;
and the table and all its utensils, and the lampstand, and its utensils,—and the incense altar,
and the altar for the ascending-sacrifice, and all its utensils,-and the laver, and its stand.
So shalt thou hallow them, and they shall be most holy,—whosoever toucheth them, shall be holy.
Aaron also, and his sons, shalt thou anoint,—so shalt thou hallow them to minister as priests unto me.
And unto the sons of Israel, shalt thou speak, saying, An oil for holy anointing, shall this be to me, to your generations.
Upon the flesh of a common man, shall it not be poured, and according to the proportions thereof, shall ye not make any like it,—holy, it is, holy, shall it be to you.
Whosoever compoundeth any like it, and whosoever bestoweth thereof upon a stranger, shall be cut off from among his people.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses—Take to thee aromatic spices stacte and onycha, and galbanum,—aromatic spices, and pure frankincense,—weight for weight, shall it be.
And thou shalt make of it an incense, a perfume the work of a perfumer,—salted, pure, holy.
And thou shalt beat some of it to powder, and place thereof before the testimony, in the tent of meeting, where I am to meet with thee,—most holy, shall it be to you.
And the incense which thou shalt make, according to the proportions thereof, ye shall not make for yourselves,—holy, shall it be to thee, to Yahweh.
Whosoever shall make like it, to smell of it shall be cut off from among his people.