Then Pilate, therefore, took Jesus, and scourged him.
And, the soldiers, plaiting a crown out of thorns, placed it upon his head, and, a purple robe, cast they about him;
and kept coming unto him, and saying—Joy to thee! O King of the Jews!—and were giving unto him smart blows.
And Pilate went forth again outside, and saith unto them—See! I lead him unto you outside, that ye may take knowledge, that, no single fault, do I find in him.
Jesus, therefore, came forth outside, wearing the thorn crown, and the purple mantle. And he saith unto them—Lo! the Man!
When, therefore, the High-priests and the officers saw him, they cried aloud, saying—Crucify! Crucify! Pilate saith unto them—Ye, take him, and crucify; for, I, find not in him, a fault.
The Jews answered him—We, have, a law, and, according to the law, he ought to die, because, Son of God, himself, he made.
When, therefore, Pilate heard this word, he was the more afraid;
and entered into the judgment-hall again, and saith unto Jesus—Whence, art, thou? But, Jesus, gave him no, answer.
Pilate, therefore, saith unto him—Unto me, dost thou not speak? Knowest thou not, that, authority, have I to release thee, and, authority, have I to crucify thee?
Jesus answered him—Thou couldst have had no authority against me, at all, if it had not been given unto thee from above. Therefore, he that delivered me unto thee, hath, greater sin.
For this cause, Pilate, began seeking to release him; but, the Jews, cried aloud saying—If this man thou release, thou art not a friend of Caesar, for, every one who maketh himself king, speaketh against Caesar.
Pilate, therefore, when he heard these words, led Jesus outside, and sat down upon a raised seat, in a place called Pavement, but, in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
Now it was the preparation of the passover,—it was about the sixth hour. And he saith unto the Jews—See! your King!
They, therefore, cried aloud—Away! away! Crucify him! Pilate saith unto them—Your king, shall I crucify? The High-priests answered—We have no king but Caesar!
Then, therefore, he delivered him up unto them, that he might be crucified. They took possession, therefore, of Jesus.
And, bearing for himself the cross, he went forth unto the so-called Skull-place, which is named, in Hebrew, Golgotha;
where, him, they crucified; and, with him, other two, on this side and on that, and, in the midst, Jesus.
And Pilate wrote a title also, and placed on the cross; and there was written—JESUS, THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
This title, therefore, read many of the Jews, because, near, was the place to the city where Jesus was crucified; and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, in Greek.
The High-priests of the Jews, therefore, were saying unto Pilate—Do not be writing, The King of the Jews; but that, he, said: King of the Jews, I am.
Pilate answered—What I have written, I have written!
The soldiers, therefore, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, unto each soldier, a part; also the tunic. Howbeit, the tunic was without seam, from above, woven throughout.
They said, therefore, one to another—Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose, it shall be;—that, the Scripture, might be fulfilled—They parted my garments amongst them, and, for my vestment, they cast lots:—yes verily, the soldiers, these things did.
And there were standing by the cross of Jesus, his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary the Magdalene.
Jesus, therefore, seeing his mother and the disciple whom he loved, saith unto his mother—O woman, see! thy son!
Afterwards, he saith unto the disciple—See! thy mother! And, from that hour, the disciple took her unto his own home.
After this, Jesus, knowing that, already, all things, have been finished,—that the Scripture might be fulfilled, saith—I thirst!
A vessel, was standing, full of vinegar. A sponge, therefore, full of the vinegar, put about, hyssop, brought they unto his mouth.
When, therefore, he had received the vinegar, Jesus said—It is finished! And, bowing his head, delivered up his spirit.
The Jews, therefore, since it was, a preparation, that the bodies might not remain upon the cross during the Sabbath,—for that Sabbath day was, great, requested Pilate that their legs might be broken, and they be taken away.
The soldiers, therefore, came; and, of the first, indeed, brake the legs, and of the other who was crucified with him,—
but coming, unto Jesus, when they saw that, already, he was dead, they brake not his legs;—
but, one of the soldiers, with a spear, pierced, his side, and there came out, straightway, blood and water.
And, he that hath seen, hath borne witness; and, genuine, is his testimony, and, he, knoweth that he saith, what is true, that, ye also, may believe.
For these things came to pass, that, the Scripture, might be fulfilled—A bone thereof, shall not be crushed;
and, again, a different Scripture, saith—They shall look unto him whom they pierced.
But, after these things, Joseph from Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but having kept it secret for fear of the Jews, requested Pilate, that he might take away the body of Jesus; and Pilate gave permission. He came, therefore, and took away his body.
There came, moreover, Nicodemus also,—he that came unto him by night at the first,—bearing a roll of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds’ weight.
So they received the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen-bandages with the spices,—just as it is, a custom, with the Jews to prepare for burial.
Now there was, in the place where he was crucified, a garden; and, in the garden, an unused tomb, wherein, as yet, no one had been laid.
So, there, by reason of the preparation of the Jews, because, near, was the tomb, laid they Jesus.