Then the scribes and Pharisees came to Jesus from Jerusalem, saying,
Why do your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.
But answering He said to them, Why do you also transgress the command of God on account of your tradition?
For God commanded, saying, "Honor your father and mother," Ex. 20:12; Deut. 5:16 and, "The one speaking evil of father or mother, by death let him die." Ex. 21:17
But you say, Whoever says to the father or the mother, A gift, whatever you would gain from me;
and in no way he honors his father or his mother. And you annulled the command of God on account of your tradition.
Hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy concerning you, saying:
"This people draws near to Me with their mouth, and with their lips honor Me; but their heart is far from Me.
But in vain they worship Me, teaching as doctrines the ordinances of men." Isa. 29:13
And calling near the crowd, He said to them, Hear and understand:
It is not that which has entered into the mouth that defiles the man, but that which has come out of the mouth, this defiles the man.
Then coming, the disciples said to Him, You know that hearing the saying, the Pharisees were offended?
But answering, He said, Every plant which My heavenly Father has not planted shall be rooted up.
Leave them alone. They are blind leaders of the blind; and if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit.
And answering, Peter said to Him, Explain this parable to us.
But Jesus said, Are you also still without understanding?
Do you not yet perceive that everything entering into the mouth goes into the belly, and is thrown out into the waste bowl?
But the things which come out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and these defile the man.
For out of the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, lies, blasphemies.
These things are the things defiling the man. But eating with unwashed hands does not defile the man.
And going out from there, Jesus withdrew to the parts of Tyre and Sidon.
And, behold, a woman of Canaan coming forth from those borders cried out to Him, saying, Have pity on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter is vilely demon-possessed.
But He did not answer her a word. And coming near, His disciples asked Him, saying, Send her away, for she cries out after us.
But answering, He said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
But coming, she worshiped Him, saying, Lord, help me!
But answering, He said, It is not good to take the bread of the children to throw it to the little dogs.
But she said, Yes, Lord; for even the little dogs eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their lords.
Then answering, Jesus said to her, O woman, your faith is great; let it be to you as you desire. And her daughter was healed from that hour.
And moving from there, Jesus came beside the Sea of Galilee. And going up into the mountain, He sat there.
And great crowds came to Him, having with them lame ones, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others. And they flung them down at the feet of Jesus. And He healed them;
so that the crowds marveled, seeing the dumb speaking, the maimed sound, the lame walking, and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel.
But having called near His disciples, Jesus said, I am filled with pity on the crowd, because they already have remained with Me three days and have nothing they may eat. And I do not desire to send them away fasting, that they may not faint in the way.
And His disciples said to Him, From where in a deserted place will come to us so many loaves as to satisfy so great a crowd?
And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven, and a few small fish.
And He ordered the crowds to recline on the ground.
And taking the seven loaves and the fish, giving thanks, He broke and gave to His disciples, and the disciples to the crowd.
And all ate and were satisfied. And they took up the left over pieces, seven lunch baskets full.
And the ones eating were four thousand men, besides women and children.
And sending away the crowds He went into the boat and came to the borders of Magdala.