Lo, mine eye has seen all this, mine ear has heard and understood it.
What all of you know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto you.
Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God.
But all of you are forgers of lies, all of you are all physicians of no value.
O that all of you would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your wisdom.
Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.
Will all of you speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?
Will all of you accept his person? will all of you contend for God?
Is it good that he should search you out? or as one man mocks another, do all of you so mock him?
He will surely reprove you, if all of you do secretly accept persons.
Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall upon you?
Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to bodies of clay.
Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on me what will.
Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in mine hand?
Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I will maintain mine own ways before him.
He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come before him.
Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears.
Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be justified.
Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the spirit.
Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from you.
Withdraw your hand far from me: and let not your dread make me afraid.
Then call you, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer you me.
How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my transgression and my sin.
Wherefore hide you your face, and hold me for your enemy?
Will you break a leaf driven back and forth? and will you pursue the dry stubble?
For you write bitter things against me, and make me to possess the iniquities of my youth.
You put my feet also in the stocks, and look narrowly unto all my paths; you set a print upon the heels of my feet.
And he, as a rotten thing, consumes, as a garment that is moth eaten.