I have spoken these things to you so that you may not be offended.
They will put you out of the synagogue, but an hour is coming that everyone killing you will think to bear a service before God.
And they will do these things to you because they do not know the Father nor Me.
But I have spoken these things to you so that when the hour comes you may recall them, that I told you these things. But I did not say these things to you from the beginning because I was with you.
But now I am going to Him who sent Me. And not one of you asks Me, Where are you going?
But because I have said these things to you, grief has filled your heart.
But I tell you the truth, it is advantageous for you that I should go; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you. But if I go, I will send Him to you.
And when that One comes, He will convict the world concerning sin, and concerning righteousness, and concerning judgment.
Concerning sin, because they do not believe into Me;
and concerning righteousness, because I am going to the Father, and you no longer see Me;
and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.
I have yet many things to tell you, but you are not able to bear now.
But when that One comes, the Spirit of truth, He will guide you into all truth, for He will not speak from Himself, but whatever He hears, He will speak; and He will announce the coming things to you.
That One will glorify Me, for He will receive from Mine and will announce to you.
All things which the Father has are Mine. For this reason I said that He receives from Mine, and will announce to you.
A little while and you do not see Me. And again a little while , and you will see Me, because I go away to the Father.
Then His disciples said to one another, What is this which He says to us, A little while , and you do not see me; and again, A little and you will see Me? And, Because I go away to the Father?
Then they said, What is this that He says, The little? We do not know what He says.
Then Jesus knew that they desired to ask Him. And He said to them, Do you seek answers with one another concerning this, because I said, A little while , and you do not see Me; and again a little and you will see Me?
Truly, truly, I say to you that you will weep and will lament, but the world will rejoice. And you will be grieved, but your grief will become joy.
The woman has grief when she bears, because her hour came, but when she brings forth the child, she no longer remembers the distress, because of the joy that a man was born into the world.
And you, then, truly have grief now; but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one takes your joy from you.
And in that day you will ask Me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, Whatever you shall ask the Father in My name, He will give you.
Until now you asked nothing in My name; ask, and you will receive, so that your joy may be full.
I have spoken these things to you in allegories. An hour comes when I will no longer speak to you in allegories, but I will reveal the Father plainly to you.
In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not tell you that I will petition the Father about you;
for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me, and have believed that I came out from God.
I came out from the Father and have come into the world; I leave the world again and go to the Father.
His disciples said to Him, Behold, now You speak plainly and You say no allegory.
Now we know that You know all things and have no need that anyone question You. By this we believe that You came out from God.
Jesus answered them, Do you believe now?
Behold, an hour is coming, and now has come, that you are scattered, each one to his own things, and you will leave Me alone. Yet I am not alone, because the Father is with Me.
I have spoken these things to you that you may have peace in Me. You have distress in the world; but be encouraged, I have overcome the world.