O sons of Benjamin take refuge to flee out of the midst of Jerusalem. And blow the ram's horn in Tekoa; and set up a signal over Beth-haccerem. For evil appears out of the north, and great destruction.
I will destroy the daughter of Zion, the beautiful and tender one.
The shepherds with their flocks shall come to her; they shall pitch tents on her all around. They shall each one feed in his hand.
Consecrate war against her. Rise up and let us go up at noon. Woe to us, for the day wanes! For the shadows of the evening are stretched out.
Rise up and let us go up by night and destroy her palaces.
For so Jehovah of hosts has said, Cut down her trees and pour out a mound against Jerusalem. She is the city to be visited. In her midst is oppression, all of her.
As a cistern keeps fresh its waters, so she keeps fresh her evil. Violence and destruction are heard in her. Sickness and wounds are continually before My face.
O Jerusalem, take advice, that My soul not be alienated from you; that I not make you a ruin, a land not inhabited.
So says Jehovah of hosts, They shall thoroughly glean the remnant of Israel like a vine. Turn back your hand as a grape gatherer over the tendrils.
To whom shall I speak and give warning that they may hear? Behold, their ears are not circumcised, and they cannot listen. Behold, the word of Jehovah is a reproach to them. They have no delight in it.
And I am full of the fury of Jehovah; I am weary with holding in. Pour it out on the child in the street and on the circle of the young men together. For even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the elder with fullness of days.
And their houses shall be turned to others, fields and wives together. For I will stretch out My hand on the inhabitants of the land, declares Jehovah.
For everyone from the least of them even to the greatest of them cuts off a profit. And from the prophet even to the priest, everyone deals falsely.
They have also healed the break of My people slightly, saying, Peace, peace, when there is no peace.
Were they ashamed when they made an abomination? They were not at all ashamed, nor did they know to blush. So they shall fall among those who fall. At the time I visit them, they shall be cast down, says Jehovah.
So says Jehovah, Stand by the ways and see, and ask for the old paths, where the good way is , and walk in it; and you shall find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk in it .
Also I set watchmen over you, saying , Listen to the sound of the ram's horn. But they said, We will not listen.
So hear, O nations, and know, O congregation, that which is coming on them.
Hear, O earth, behold! I will bring evil on this people, the fruit of their thoughts. For they have not listened to My words, and My law; they also rejected it.
Why is this to Me? Frankincense comes from Sheba, and the good cane from a far land? Your burnt offerings are not for acceptance, nor are your sacrifices sweet to Me.
So Jehovah says this, Behold! I am giving stumbling-blocks to this people, and the fathers and the sons together shall stumble on them; a neighbor and his friend shall perish.
So says Jehovah, Behold! A people comes from the north country; and a great nation shall be stirred from the sides of the earth.
They shall lay hold on bow and javelin; they are cruel and have no mercy. Their voice roars like the sea; and they ride on horses, arrayed like a man for the battle against you, O daughter of Zion.
We have heard the rumor of it. Our hands have dropped down; anguish has seized us, pain like a travailing woman.
Do not go out into the field or walk by the way, because of the sword of the enemy and terror from every side.
O daughter of My people, put on sackcloth and roll in ashes. Make mourning for yourself, as for an only son, most bitter mourning; for the ravager shall suddenly come on us.
I have set you up as assayer, an examiner among My people, that you may know and examine their way.
They are all rebellious revolters, walkers in slander. All of them are as bronze and iron; they are corrupters.
The bellows blow, the lead is consumed from the fire, the refiner refines in vain; for the evil is not separated.
Men will call them reprobate silver, for Jehovah has rejected them.