Then he brought me back unto the entrance of the house, and lo! waters coming forth from under the threshold of the house eastward, because the front of the house, was to the east,—and the waters, were coming down from beneath, from the right side of the house, on the south of the altar.
Then he brought me out by way of the north gate, and took me round by an outer way, unto an outer gate that which looketh eastward—and lo! waters trickling forth out of the right side.
When the man went forth with a measuring line in his hand, then measured he a thousand, by the cubit, and caused me to pass through the waters—waters reaching to the ankles.
Then measured he a thousand, and caused me to pass through the waters—waters reaching to the knees,—and again measured he a thousand, and caused me to pass through-waters reaching to the loins.
Then measured he a thousand—a river which I could not pass through—for the waters had risen-waters to swim in, a river, that could not be forded.
Then said he unto me Hast thou seen son of man? Then he took me along and caused me to return to the bank of the river.
When I returned, then lo! by the bank of the river, trees very many,—on this side and on that side.
And he said unto me, These waters, are going forth unto the region toward the east and shall go down unto the waste plain, and shall enter the sea, unto the sea being led forth, then shall the waters be healed;
And it shall come to pass that every living soul that swarmeth whithersoever the rivers shall come, shall live, and the fish shall become a very great multitude; for these waters have come thither, that they may be healed so shall everything live whithersoever the river cometh.
And it shall come to pass that there shall stand by it fishers, from En-gedi even unto En-eglaim, places for spreading out nets, shall they be,—after their kind, shall be their fish, like the fish of the great sea exceeding many.
the swamps thereof and the pools thereof, shall not be healed to salt, have they been given up.
And, by the river, shall grow up on the bank thereof on this side and on that side every tree for food the leaf whereof, shall not fade, neither shall fail the fruit thereof, by its months, shall it break forth, for, as for the waters thereof, out of the sanctuary, are they coming forth,—and the fruit thereof shall be, for food, and, the leaf thereof, for healing.
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, This shall be the boundary whereby ye shall take your inheritances in the land, according to the twelve tribes of Israel,—Joseph shall have portions.
so shall ye inherit it each man like his brother, as to which I lifted my hand to give it to your fathers,—so shall this land fall to you as an inheritance.
This then shall be the boundary of the land,—on the north side, from the great sea by the way of Hethlon to the entering, in of Zedad;
Hamath Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the boundary of Damascus and the boundary of Hamath,—Hazer-hatticon, which is by the boundary of Hauran.
Thus shall there be a boundary, from the sea Hazar-enin the boundary of Damascus, even the north northward and the boundary of Hamath,—even the north, side.
And for the east side, from between Hauran and Damascus and from between Gilead and the land of Israel the Jordan, from the boundary by the sea eastward, shall ye measure—even the east side.
And for the south side southward, from Tamar as far as the waters of Meriboth-kadesh, towards the torrent bed unto the great sea,—even the south side southward.
And for the west side, the great sea, from the boundary as far as over against the entering in of Hamath— this is the west side.
So then ye shall apportion this land to you by the tribes of Israel. —
And it shall come to pass that ye shall divide it by lot as an inheritance, to yourselves and to the sojourners who are sojourning in your midst, who have begotten children in your midst,—so shall they be to you as a native among the sons of Israel with you, shall they cast lots for an inheritance, in the midst of the tribes of Israel.
And it shall be that with whatsoever tribe the sojourner hath become a sojourner, there shall ye give his inheritance, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.