Bvt Iob answered, and said,
Howe long will yee vexe my soule, and torment me with wordes?
Ye haue now ten times reproched me, and are not ashamed: ye are impudent toward mee.
And though I had in deede erred, mine errour remaineth with me.
But in deede if ye will aduance your selues against me, and rebuke me for my reproche,
Know nowe, that God hath ouerthrowen me, and hath compassed me with his net.
Beholde, I crie out of violence, but I haue none answere: I crie, but there is no iudgement.
Hee hath hedged vp my way that I cannot passe, and he hath set darkenesse in my paths.
Hee hath spoyled mee of mine honour, and taken the crowne away from mine head.
He hath destroyed mee on euery side and I am gone: and he hath remoued mine hope like a tree.
And he hath kindled his wrath against me, and counteth mee as one of his enemies.
His armies came together, and made their way vpon me, and camped about my tabernacle.
He hath remooued my brethre farre from me, and also mine acquaintance were strangers vnto me.
My neighbours haue forsaken me, and my familiars haue forgotten me.
They that dwel in mine house, and my maydes tooke me for a stranger: for I was a stranger in their sight.
I called my seruant, but he would not answere, though I prayed him with my mouth.
My breath was strange vnto my wife, though I prayed her for the childrens sake of mine owne body.
The wicked also despised mee, and when I rose, they spake against me.
All my secret friends abhorred me, and they whome I loued, are turned against me.
My bone cleaueth to my skinne and to my flesh, and I haue escaped with the skinne of my teeth.
Haue pitie vpon me: haue pitie vpon me, (O yee my friendes) for the hande of God hath touched me.
Why do ye persecute me, as God? and are not satisfied with my flesh?
Oh that my wordes were nowe written! oh that they were written euen in a booke,
And grauen with an yron pen in lead, or in stone for euer!
For I am sure, that my Redeemer liueth, and he shall stand the last on the earth.
And though after my skin wormes destroy this bodie, yet shall I see God in my flesh.
Whome I my selfe shall see, and mine eyes shall beholde, and none other for me, though my reynes are consumed within me.
But yee sayde, Why is hee persecuted? And there was a deepe matter in me.
Be ye afraide of the sworde: for the sworde will be auenged of wickednesse, that yee may knowe that there is a iudgement.