He, that being often reproved hardens his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked bears rule, the people mourn.
Whoever loves wisdom rejoices his father: but he that keeps company with harlots spends his substance.
The king by judgment establishes the land: but he that receives gifts overthrows it.
A man that flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the righteous does sing and rejoice.
The righteous considers the cause of the poor: but the wicked regards not to know it.
Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away wrath.
If a wise man contends with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest.
The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.
A fool utters all his mind: but a wise man keeps it in till afterwards.
If a ruler listen to lies, all his servants are wicked.
The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the LORD lightens both their eyes.
The king that faithfully judges the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself brings his mother to shame.
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increases: but the righteous shall see their fall.
Correct your son, and he shall give you rest; yes, he shall give delight to your soul.
Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keeps the law, happy is he.
A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer.
See you a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
He that delicately brings up his servant from a child shall have him become his son at the length.
An angry man stirs up strife, and a furious man abounds in transgression.
A man’s pride shall bring him low: but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit.
Whoever is partner with a thief hates his own soul: he hears cursing, and denudes it not.
The fear of man brings a snare: but whoever puts his trust in the LORD shall be safe.
Many seek the ruler’s favor; but every man’s judgment comes from the LORD.
An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked.