The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
And the sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and their sister Miriam. And the sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
Eleazar fathered Phinehas. Phinehas fathered Abishua.
And Abishua fathered Bukki. And Bukki fathered Uzzi.
And Uzzi fathered Zerahiah. And Zerahiah fathered Meraioth.
Meraioth fathered Amariah. And Amariah fathered Ahitub.
And Ahitub fathered Zadok. And Zadok fathered Ahimaaz.
And Ahimaaz fathered Azariah. And Azariah fathered Johanan.
And Johanan fathered Azariah, he who acted in the priest's office in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem.
And Azariah fathered Amariah. And Amariah fathered Ahitub.
And Ahitub fathered Zadok. And Zadok fathered Shallum.
And Shallum fathered Hilkiah. And Hilkiah fathered Azariah.
And Azariah fathered Seraiah. And Seraiah fathered Jehozadak.
And Jehozadak went away when the LORD exiled Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath and Merari.
And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers.
The sons of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son.
The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth.
Elkanah; the sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, and Nahath his son,
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
And the sons of Samuel: Joel, Vashni, the first-born, and Abijah.
The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzziah his son,
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
And these are the men whom David set over the service of song in the house of the LORD, after the ark had rest.
And they ministered before the dwelling-place of the tabernacle of the congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem. And they waited on their office according to their order.
And these are the ones who waited with their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman a singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,
the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,
the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,
the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel.
And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berachiah, the son of Shimea,
the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah,
the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,
the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.
And their brothers the sons of Merari stood on the left hand: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,
the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,
the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shamer,
the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
And their brothers, the Levites, were appointed for all kinds of service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
But Aaron and his sons offered on the altar of the burnt offering, and on the altar of incense, and were appointed for all the work of the Most Holy Place, and to make an atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
And these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
And these are their dwelling-places throughout their camps, within their borders, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites, for the lot was theirs.
And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and its open lands all around it.
But the fields of the city, and its villages, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, and Libnah with its open lands, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa with their open lands,
and Hilen with its open lands, Debir with its open lands,
and Ashan with its open lands, and Beth-shemesh with its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Benjamin: Geba with its open lands, and Alemeth with its open lands, and Anathoth with its open lands. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities.
And to the sons of Kohath left of the family of that tribe, cities were given out of the half tribe, the half of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.
And to the sons of Gershom throughout their families, out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
And to the sons of Merari were given by lot, throughout their families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the sons of Israel gave these cities to the Levites, with their open lands.
And they gave these cities which are called by their names, out of the tribe of the sons of Judah, and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin.
And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their borders out of the tribe of Ephraim.
And they gave to them for the cities of refuge, Shechem in Mount Ephraim, with its open lands, also Gezer with its open lands,
and Jokmeam with its open lands, and Beth-horon with its open lands,
and Aijalon with its open lands, and Gath-rimmon with its open lands.
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh: Aner with its open lands, and Bileam with its open lands, for the family of the rest of the sons of Kohath.
To the sons of Gershom were given out of the family of the half tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with its open lands, and Ashtaroth with its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh with its open lands, Daberath with its open lands,
and Ramoth with its open lands, and Anem with its open lands were given.
And out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its open lands, and Abdon with its open lands,
and Hukok with its open lands, and Rehob with its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its open lands, and Hammon with its open lands, and Kirjath-aim with its open lands.
To the rest of the sons of Merari were given out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with its open lands, Tabor with its open lands.
And on the other side Jordan by Jericho, on the east side of Jordan: out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness, with its open lands, and Jahzah with its open lands,
and Kedemoth with its open lands, and Mephaath with its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Gad they gave Ramoth in Gilead with its open lands, and Mahanaim with its open lands,
and Heshbon with its open lands, and Jazer with its open lands.