A Psalm of David. Do not inflame yourself with evildoers; and do not be envious against workers of perversity;
for they soon wither like grass and fade like the green herb.
Trust in Jehovah and do good; live in the land and feed on faithfulness.
And delight yourself in Jehovah, that He may give you your heart's desire.
Roll your way on Jehovah, and trust in Him; and He will work.
And He will bring forth your righteousness like the light; and your judgment like the noon day.
Rest in Jehovah and wait patiently for Him; inflame not yourself with him who prospers in his way, with the man practicing evil wiles.
Abstain from anger and cease from fury; also do not inflame yourself to do evil.
For evildoers shall be cut off; and the ones waiting on Jehovah, they shall inherit the earth.
It is but a little, and the wicked shall not be; yes, you shall search his place, and he is not.
But the meek shall inherit the earth, and they shall delight themselves in abundant peace.
The wicked plots against the righteous, and gnashes on him with his teeth;
the Lord laughs at him, for He sees that his day is coming.
The wicked have drawn out the sword and they have trodden their bow, to cause the poor and needy to fall; to kill those who walk uprightly.
Their sword shall enter into their heart, and their bows shall be broken.
A little to the righteous is better than the abundance of many wicked.
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken; but Jehovah upholds the righteous.
Jehovah knows the days of the upright, and their inheritance shall be forever.
They shall not be ashamed in an evil time; and they shall be full in days of famine.
But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of Jehovah shall be like the beauty of pastures; they are consumed like smoke; they are consumed.
The wicked borrows and never repays, but the righteous is gracious and giving.
For His blessed ones inherit the earth, and those cursed by Him shall be cut off.
The steps of a man are ordered from Jehovah, and He will delight in his way.
Though he falls, he is not cast down; for Jehovah upholds his hand.
I have been young and am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread.
All the day long he is gracious and lends, and his seed is for a blessing.
Depart from evil and do good, and live forevermore.
For Jehovah loves judgment and does not forsake His saints; they are preserved forever; but the wicked's seed shall be cut off.
The righteous shall inherit the earth and live on it forever.
The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, and his tongue speaks judgment.
The law of his God is in his heart; his steps do not slide.
The wicked spies on the righteous and seeks to kill him.
Jehovah does not leave him in his hand, nor allow him to be found guilty in his judgment.
Wait on Jehovah and keep His way, and He shall exalt you to inherit the earth; you shall see when the wicked are cut off.
I have seen the wicked ruthless, even spreading himself out like a luxuriant, native tree ;
yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not; and I looked for him, but he could not be found.
Watch the perfect and behold the upright one; for the end of that man is peace.
But the transgressors are destroyed together; the end of the wicked is cut off.
But the salvation of the righteous is from Jehovah; He is their strength in the time of distress.
And Jehovah helps them and delivers them; He shall deliver them from the wicked and save them, because they trust in Him.