Woe to rebellious sons, declares Jehovah, to make counsel, but not from Me; and to weave a covering web, but not of My Spirit, in order to add sin on sin;
who set out to go down to Egypt, but have not asked at My mouth, to take refuge in the stronghold of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt.
And the stronghold of Pharaoh shall become a shame to you; and relying on the shadow of Egypt shall be a disgrace.
For his rulers were in Zoan, and his ambassadors reached to Hanes.
Every one is ashamed over a people who do not profit them; they are not for a help, and not for profiting, but for a shame; yea, also for a reproach.
The burden of the beasts of the south: Into the land of trouble and constraint. The lioness and the lion are from them; the viper and fiery flying serpent. They carry their riches on the shoulders of young asses, and their treasures on the humps of camels, to a people who cannot profit them .
And Egypt; vainly and emptily they help. So I have called to this: Their strength is to sit still.
Now come, write it before them on a tablet, and note it on a book, so that it may be for the latter day, until forever;
that this is a rebellious people, lying sons; sons who are not willing to hear the law of Jehovah;
who say to the seers, Do not see; and to visioners, Do not have a vision for right things to us; speak smooth things to us; have a vision of trifles.
Turn aside from the way; stretch from the path; cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.
For this reason, so says the Holy One of Israel, Because of your rejection of this word, and your trust in oppression and perversity, even resting on it;
So this iniquity shall be to you as a broken section falling, like the bulging out of a high wall, the breaking of which comes suddenly, in an instant.
And its smashing is as the smashing of a potter's vessel; when broken in pieces, he has no pity; for in its breaking there is not found a shard to carry fire from the hearth, nor to skim water from a well.
For so says the Lord Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, In returning and rest you shall be saved; and in quietness and hope shall be your strength. But you were not willing.
For you said, No! For we will flee on horseback. On account of this you shall flee. Also, you say , We will ride on swift ones. On account of this, those who pursue you shall be swift.
One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one. You shall flee from the rebuke of five, until you are left like a pole on the top of the mountain, and like a sign on a hill.
And so Jehovah waits to be gracious to you. And for this He is exalted to have mercy on you; for Jehovah is a God of justice. Blessed are all who wait for Him.
For the people shall live in Zion, at Jerusalem; you shall surely cry no more. He surely will be gracious to you at the sound of your cry. When He hears, He will answer you.
And the Lord gives you the bread of adversity, and the water of affliction; but your teachers shall not be hidden any more; but your eyes shall be to see your teachers.
And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, this is the way, walk in it, when you go right, or when you go left.
And you shall defile the covering of your carved images of silver; and the covering of your molten images of gold. You shall cast them out like a menstruous cloth; you shall say to it, Go away!
Then He shall give rain for your seed, with which you sow the ground. And the bread of the produce of the earth also shall be fat and plentiful. In that day your livestock shall feed in a pasture made wide.
Also, the oxen and the young asses that till the ground shall eat seasoned fodder which one winnows with the shovel and with the fork.
And on every high mountain, and on every high hill, shall be rivulets lifted up, streams of water, in a day of great slaying, when towers fall.
And the moonlight shall be like the light of the sun. And the sun's light shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day of binding up, Jehovah binding the break of His people, and healing the wound of His blow.
Behold, the name of Jehovah comes from afar; His anger burns; and is heavy as the uplifting of smoke ; His lips are full of fury, and His tongue like a devouring fire.
And like an overflowing torrent, His breath shall divide to the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of vanity, and a misleading bridle on the jaws of the peoples.
The song shall be to you, as the night when the feast is sanctified, and gladness of heart, as one going with the flute, to come into the mount of Jehovah, to the Rock of Israel.
And Jehovah shall make the majesty of His voice heard; and He shows His arm coming down with raging anger and flame of consuming fire, cloudburst and storm, and hailstones.
For through the voice of Jehovah, Assyria shall be crushed, the rod with which He strikes.
And every passage of the appointed staff that Jehovah causes to rest on him will be with timbrels and with harps. And in brandishing battles He fights with her.
For Topheth is ordained from yesterday. Also, it is prepared for the king; He deepened; He widened its pyre; He makes great with fire and wood. The breath of Jehovah burns in it like a torrent of brimstone.