And all the tribes of Israel came to David, to Hebron, and spoke, saying, Behold, we are your bone and your flesh.
Also in time past, when Saul was king over us, you were he who led Israel out and brought them in. And the LORD said to you, You shall feed My people Israel, and you shall be a leader over Israel.
And all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron. And king David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD. And they anointed David king over Israel.
David was thirty years old when he began to reign. He reigned forty years.
In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Judah.
And the king and his men went to Jerusalem to the Jebusites, the people of the land. And one spoke to David saying, You shall not come in here, except the blind and the lame will turn you away; also saying, David cannot come in here.
And David took the stronghold of Zion; it is the city of David.
And David said on that day, Anyone who strikes the Jebusite, let him go by the water-shaft and take the lame and the blind, the hated of David's soul. On account of this they say, The blind and the lame shall not come into the house.
And David lived in the fort, and called it the city of David. And David built all around, from Millo and inward.
And David went on and became great, and the LORD God of hosts was with him.
And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and masons to David. And they built David a house.
And David saw that the LORD had established him king over Israel, and that He had made his kingdom sure for His people Israel's sake.
And David took more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem, after he had come from Hebron. And there were still more sons and daughters born to David.
These are the names of those to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,
and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphalet.
And the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel. And all the Philistines came up to seek David. And David heard, and went down to the stronghold.
And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the Valley of the Giants.
And David inquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines? Will You deliver them into my hand? And the LORD said to David, Go up! For I will surely deliver the Philistines into your hand.
And David came to Baal-perazim, and David struck them there, and said, The LORD has broken forth on my enemies before me, like the breaking forth of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place The Breaking of Baal.
And they left their images there, and David and his men took them away.
And the Philistines came up again and spread themselves in the Valley of the Giants.
And David inquired of the LORD, and He said, You shall not go up, but go around behind them and come upon them over across from the weeping trees.
And it shall be, when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the weeping trees, then you shall strike. For then the LORD shall go out before you to strike the army of the Philistines.
And David did so, as the LORD had commanded him. And he struck the Philistines from Geba until you come to Gezer.