Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are in Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
grace be to you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God on every remembrance of you―
always in every supplication of mine for you all, making my supplication with joy―
for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day till now:
being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you, will carry it on till the day of Jesus Christ;
as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I say I have you in my heart; both in my bonds and in my defense and confirmation of the gospel, I say I have you all in my heart as being joint partakers of my grace.
For God is my witness how ardently I love you with the affection of Christ Jesus.
I also pray for this, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all understanding,
in order that you may distinguish things that differ, to the end that you may be pure and blameless till the day of Christ,
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which fruit is by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
But I wish you to know, brethren, that the things which have befallen me have turned out rather to the advancement of the gospel;
so that my bonds which are for Christ have become known to be such in all the palace, and in all other places;
and most of the brethren in the Lord, having confidence in my bonds, are more bold to speak the word without fear.
Some, indeed, preach the Christ, because of envy and a contentious disposition, and some because of good-will.
These do it from love, because they know that I am set for the defense of the gospel;
those preach Christ from a contentious disposition, not sincerely, thinking that they will add affliction to my bonds.
What difference does this make? Christ is, nevertheless, preached in every way, whether in pretense or in truth; and in this I rejoice, yes, and I will rejoice:
for I know that this will result in my benefit through your supplication, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing shall I be ashamed, but with all boldness, as at all times, so even now, Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death.
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
But if this, my life in the flesh, would be profitable for my work in the ministry, verily, what I should choose I know not.
I am in a strait between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better:
yet to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
And of this I feel assured, that I shall remain and continue among you all for your advancement and joy in the faith,
that your rejoicing in Christ Jesus may become more abundant through me by my being present among you again.
Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of the Christ, that, whether I come and see you, or be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one soul striving together for the faith of the gospel,
and in nothing terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of destruction, but to you of salvation, and that from God.
For to you it is given in behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but, also, to suffer for him,
since you have the same conflict that you saw in me, and now hear to be in me.