And when Balaam saw that it pleased Jehovah to bless Israel, he did not go, as at the other times, to meet with omens, but he set his face toward the wilderness.
And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel dwelling according to their tribes, and the Spirit of God came upon him.
And he took up his oracle, and said, Balaam the son of Beor says, and the man whose eye was closed says,
he says who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, and having his eyes open,
How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, thy tabernacles, O Israel!
As valleys they are spread forth, as gardens by the river-side, as aloes which Jehovah has planted, as cedar trees beside the waters.
Water shall flow from his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted.
God brings him forth out of Egypt. He has as it were the strength of the wild-ox. He shall eat up the nations his adversaries, and shall break their bones in pieces, and smite them through with his arrows.
He couched, he lay down as a lion, and as a lioness. Who shall rouse him up? He who blesses thee is blessed, And he who curses thee is cursed.
And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he struck his hands together. And Balak said to Balaam, I called thee to curse my enemies, and, behold, thou have altogether blessed them these three times.
Therefore now flee thou to thy place. I thought to promote thee to great honor, but, lo, Jehovah has kept thee back from honor.
And Balaam said to Balak, Did I not also speak to thy messengers that thou sent to me, saying,
If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of Jehovah, to do either good or bad of my own mind. What Jehovah speaks, that I will speak?
And now, behold, I go to my people. Come, I will advise thee what this people shall do to thy people in the latter days.
And he took up his oracle, and said, Balaam the son of Beor says, and the man whose eye was closed says,
he says who hears the words of God, and knows the knowledge of the Most High, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, and having his eyes open:
I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. There shall come forth a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite through the corners of Moab, and break down all the sons of tumult.
And Edom shall be a possession, Seir also shall be a possession, who were his enemies, while Israel does valiantly.
And out of Jacob shall come he who shall have dominion, and shall destroy the remnant from the city.
And he looked on Amalek, and took up his oracle, and said, Amalek was the first of the nations, but his latter end shall come to destruction.
And he looked on the Kenite, and took up his oracle, and said, Strong is thy dwelling-place, and thy nest is set in the rock.
Nevertheless Kain shall be wasted, until Asshur shall carry thee away captive.
And he took up his oracle, and said, Alas, who shall live when God does this?
But ships shall come from the coast of Kittim, and they shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also shall come to destruction.
And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place, and Balak also went his way.