And it came to pass, after many days, when Yahweh had given rest unto Israel, from all their enemies round about,—and, Joshua, had become old, advanced in days,
that Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders, and for their heads, and for their judges, and for their officers,—and said unto them, I, am old, advanced in days;
but, ye, have seen—all that Yahweh your God hath done unto all those nations, because of you,—for, Yahweh your God, is he that hath fought for you.
Behold, I have allotted to you these nations which remain, as an inheritance, for your tribes,—from the Jordan, and all the nations which I have cut off, even unto the great sea, at the going in of the sun.
But, Yahweh your God—he, will thrust them out from before you, and drive them away out of your sight,—so shall ye possess their land, as Yahweh your God spoke unto you.
Therefore must ye be very firm to observe and to do all that is written in the scroll of the law of Moses,—so as not to turn aside therefrom, to the right hand or to the left;
so as not to go in among these nations, these which remain with you,—and, with the name of their gods, shall ye neither make memorial nor put on oath, and neither serve them,—nor bow down to them.
But, unto Yahweh your God, must ye cleave,—as, ye have done until this day;
therefore hath Yahweh dispossessed, from before you, nations great and strong,—but, as for you, not a man hath stood before you, until this day.
One man of you, can chase a thousand,—for, Yahweh your God, is he that fighteth for you, as he spake to you.
Take diligent heed, therefore, unto your souls,—to love Yahweh your God.
But, if ye, do in any wise turn back, and cleave unto the remnant of these nations, these which remain with you,—and intermarry with them, and go in with them, and, they, with you;
know, that Yahweh your God will no further drive out these nations from before you,—but they will become unto you a snare and a hook, and a goad in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until ye have perished from off this goodly soil, which Yahweh your God hath given unto you.
But lo! I am going to-day, in the way of all the earth,—ye must acknowledge, therefore, with all your heart and with all your soul, that there hath not failed a single thing, out of all the good things which Yahweh your God spake concerning you, the whole, hath come to pass to you, there hath not failed thereof, a single thing.
But it shall be that, as all the good things have come unto you, which Yahweh your God spake unto you, so, will Yahweh bring upon you all the evil things, until he hath destroyed you from off this goodly soil, which Yahweh your God hath given unto you.
When ye transgress the covenant of Yahweh your God which he hath commanded you, and go and serve other gods, and bow yourselves down unto them, then will the anger of Yahweh kindle upon you, and ye will perish quickly, from off the good land which he hath given unto you.