And Saul, still breathing out threatening and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went to the chief priest,
and asked of him letters to Damascus, for the synagogues, that, if he should find any who were of this persuasion, either men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus; and suddenly there shone round about him a light from heaven.
And when he had fallen to the earth, he heard a voice saying to him: Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?
He answered: Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said: I am Jesus, whom you persecute.
But rise, and go into the city, and it shall be told you what you must do.
The men who journeyed with him stood amazed; for they heard a voice, but saw no one.
And Saul arose from the earth, and when his eyes were opened, he saw no one; but they led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.
And he was three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank.
Now there was a certain disciple in Damascus, named Ananias; and the Lord said to him in a vision: Ananias. He answered: Behold me, Lord.
And the Lord said to him: Arise, and go into the street that is called Straight, and inquire at the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus: for behold, he is praying;
and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias, coming in and laying his hand on him, that he may receive his sight.
But Ananias answered: Lord, I have heard from many of this man, how much evil he has done to thy saints in Jerusalem;
and here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all that call upon thy name.
But the Lord said to him: Go; for he is a vessel chosen by me to bear my name before nations and kings, and the sons of Israel.
For I will show him what great things he must suffer for my name.
And Ananias went, and entered the house, and laying his hands on him, said: Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, who appeared to you on the road by which you came, has sent me, that you may receive your sight, and be filled with the Holy Spirit.
And immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he instantly received his sight; and he arose, and was immersed.
And, having taken food, he was strengthened.   And he was with the disciples in Damascus for some days;
and immediately he preached Jesus in the synagogues, that he is the Sou of God.
And all that heard him were astonished, and said: Is not this he who destroyed in Jerusalem those that call on this name, and who has come hither for this purpose, that he might carry them bound to the chief priests?
But Saul increased the more in strength, and confuted the Jews that dwelt in Damascus, proving that this is the Christ.
And, after many days had passed, the Jews determined to kill him.
And their plot was made known to Saul; and they watched the gates day and night, that they might kill him.
But the disciples took him by night, and let him down through the vail in a basket,
And having come to Jerusalem, he attempted to associate with the disciples: and they were all afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple.
But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, and told them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had boldly preached in Damascus in the name of Jesus.
And he was with them in Jerusalem, coming in and going out; and, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus,
he conversed and reasoned with the Hellenists; but they undertook to kill him.
And when the brethren learned this, they brought him down to Cæsarea, and sent him out to Tarsus.
Then the churches throughout the whole of Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, and were edified; and, walking in the fear of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied.
And it came to pass that Peter, passing through all the places, came down also to the saints that dwelt in Lydda.
And he found there a certain man named Æneas, who was a paralytic, and had kept his bed for eight years.
And Peter said to him: Æneas, Jesus the Christ restores you to health; arise, and spread your bed for yourself. And he immediately arose;
and all that dwelt in Lydda and Saron saw him; and they turned to the Lord.
Now there was in Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which name, when translated, is Dorcas. She was full of good works and deeds of charity which she did.
And it came to pass, in those days, that she was taken sick, and died. And when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.
And as Lydda was near to Joppa, the disciples, having heard that Peter was there, sent two men to him, requesting him to make no delay in coming to them.
Then Peter arose, and went with them; and when he had come, they brought him into the upper room; and all the widows stood by him weeping, and showing the coats and garments that Dorcas made while she was with them.
But Peter put them all out, and kneeled down and prayed; and turning to the body, he said: Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes; and when she saw Peter, she sat up.
And he gave her his hand, and raised her up. And when he had called in the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.
And it was known throughout all Joppa, and many believed on the Lord.
And it came to pass, that he remained many days in Joppa with one Simon, a tanner.