And there come together to him the Pharisees, and some of the scribes, who came from Jerusalem;
and seeing some of his disciples eating bread with defiled, that is, unwashed hands,
(for the Pharisees, and all the Jews, unless they wash their hands often, do not eat, holding fast the tradition of the elders;
and on coming from the marketplace, unless they bathe, they do not eat; and there are many other things which they have received to hold, the dipping of cups, and pitchers, and brazen vessels;)
then the Pharisees and scribes ask him, Why do not thy disciples walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with defiled hands?
And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, "This people honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men."
Laying aside, the commandment of God, ye hold fast the tradition of men.
And he said to them, Full well do ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your tradition!
For Moses said, "Honor thy father and thy mother;" and, "He that curseth father or mother, let him surely die."
But ye say, If a man say to his father or mother, Whatever thou mightst receive in aid from me is Corban, that is, a gift to God, [he is not bound by the command. Thus]
ye suffer him no longer to do anything for his father or his mother;
making void the word of God by your tradition, which ye have handed down; and many such things ye do.
And again calling the multitude to him, he said to them, Hearken to me all of you, and understand.
Nothing that entereth into a man from without can defile him; but the things that come out of him are what defile a man.

And when he had gone into the house from the crowd, his disciples asked him concerning the parable.
And he saith to them, Are ye too so without discernment? Do ye not understand that whatever thing from without entereth into a man, cannot defile him?
because it entereth not into his heart, but into the stomach; and goeth out into the drain, which cleanseth all kinds of food.
And he said, That which cometh out of a man, that defileth a man.
For from within, out of the heart of men, come forth evil thoughts, fornications,
thefts, murders, adulteries, covetousness, iniquities, deceit, wantonness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness.
All these evil things come from within, and defile a man.
And rising up, he departed thence into the borders of Tyre; and entering into a house, he desired that no one should know it; but he could not escape notice.
But a woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, immediately hearing of him, came in, and fell at his feet.
The woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by nation; and she besought him that he would cast out the demon from her daughter.
And he said to her, Let the children be filled first; for it is not well to take the children’s bread and throw it to the little dogs.
But she answered, and saith to him, Yea, Lord; even the little dogs under the table eat of the children’s crumbs.
And he said to her, For this saying go thy way; the demon hath gone out of thy daughter.
And going away to her house, she found the child laid upon the bed, and the demon gone out.
And again leaving the borders of Tyre, he came through Sidon to the lake of Galilee, through the midst of the borders of Decapolis.
And they bring to him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech, and beseech him to lay his hand upon him.
And taking him aside from the multitude, he put his fingers into his ears, and having spit, touched his tongue;
and looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith to him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened.
And his ears were opened; and the string of his tongue was immediately loosed, and he spoke plain.
And he charged them to tell no one; but the more he charged them, the more did they publish it.
And they were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well; he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.