Jesus, therefore, six days before the passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was who had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.
There they made him a supper; and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those that sat at the table with him.
Then Mary took a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment.
Then said one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's [son], who should betray him,
Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarius and given to the poor?
This he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and had the bag and would take [from] what was put therein.
Therefore Jesus said, Let her alone; against the day of my burying she has kept this;
for the poor ye always have with you, but ye shall not always have me.
A great multitude of the Jews therefore knew that he was there; and they came not only for Jesus' sake, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead.
So the princes of the priests took counsel that they might also put Lazarus to death
because by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus.
On the next day the multitude that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna; Blessed [is] he that comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel.
And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat upon it, as it is written,
Fear not, daughter of Sion; behold, thy King comes, sitting on an ass's colt.
His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of him and [that] they had done these things unto him.
The multitude, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead, bore witness.
For this cause the multitude also met him, for they had heard that he had done this sign.
The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him.
And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast;
the same came therefore to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Lord, we desire to see Jesus.
Philip came and told Andrew, and then Andrew and Philip told Jesus.
And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour comes in which the Son of man shall be clarified.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it brings forth much fruit.
He that loves his life shall lose it, and he that hates his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal.
If anyone serves me, let them follow me; and where I am, there shall my servant be also; the one that serves me, will my Father honour.
Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this have I come in this hour.
Father, clarify thy name. Then there came a voice from the heaven, [saying], I have clarified it and will clarify it again.
The people, therefore, that were present and heard [it], said that it thundered; others said, An angel spoke to him.
Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes.
Now is the judgment of this world; now shall the prince of this world be cast out.
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all [men] unto me.
This he said, signifying what death he should die.
The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ abides for ever; and how sayest thou, It is expedient that the Son of man be lifted up? Who is this Son of man?
Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the Light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you; for he that walks in darkness does not know where he goes.
While ye have the Light, believe in the Light that ye may be the sons of light. Jesus spoke these things and departed and hid himself from them.
But although he had done so many signs before them, yet they did not believe in him,
that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke, Lord, who shall believe our report? and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?
Therefore they could not believe, because Isaiah said again,
He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, that they should not see with [their] eyes nor understand with [their] heart and be converted, and I should heal them.
Isaiah said these things when he saw his glory and spoke of him.
Nevertheless, even among the princes many believed in him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess [him], lest they should be put out of the synagogue;
for they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
But Jesus cried and said, He that believes in me, believes not in me, but in him that sent me,
and he that sees me sees him that sent me.
I am come [as] a light into the world that whosoever believes in me should not abide in darkness.
And if anyone hears my words and believes not, I judge him not, for I came not to judge the world but to save the world.
He that rejects me and does not receive my words has one that judges him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day.
For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father who sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say and what I should speak.
And I know that his commandment is eternal life; whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.: