BRETHREN, the kind wish of my heart indeed, and the prayer which I offer to God for Israel, is for their salvation.
For I am a witness for them, that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge.
For being ignorant of the righteousness which is of God, and seeking to establish a righteousness of their own, they have not submitted to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth.
For Moses describeth the righteousness which is by the law, “That the man who doeth these things shall live by them.”
But the righteousness that is by faith speaketh thus, “Say not in thy heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down:)
or, Who shall descend into the abyss?” (that is, to bring Christ up again from the dead.)
But what saith it? “The word is nigh thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart:” that is, the word of faith which we preach;
That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thy heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.
For with the heart faith is exercised unto righteousness; and with the mouth is confession made unto salvation.
For the scripture saith, “Every one who believeth in him shall not be confounded.”
For there is no difference between either Jew or Greek: for the same Lord of all is rich to all that call upon him.
“For every one shall be saved, whosoever calleth on the name of the Lord.”
How then shall they call upon him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe on him of whom they have not heard? but how shall they hear without a preacher?
and how shall they preach unless they are sent? as it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, of those who preach the glad tidings of good things!”
But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah saith, “Lord, who hath believed our report?”
Faith then cometh by report, but the report by the word of God.
But I say, Have they not heard? Yea verily, “the sound of their voice is gone forth into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world.”
But I say, Did not Israel know? Moses first saith, “I will excite your jealousy by what is no nation, and by an ignorant people will I provoke you to wrath.”
But Isaiah is very bold, and saith, “I have been found by those who sought me not; I have become manifest to those who inquired not after me.”
But unto Israel he saith, “All the day long have I stretched out my hands unto a people disobedient and contradicting.”