And Jehovah said to Noah, Come, thou and all thy house into the ark, for I have seen thee righteous before me in this generation.
Of every clean beast thou shall take to thee by sevens, the male and his female. And of the beasts that are not clean two, the male and his female.
Also of the birds of the heavens by sevens, male and female, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights, and every living thing that I have made I will destroy from off the face of the ground.
And Noah did according to all that Jehovah commanded him.
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.
And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.
Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of birds, and of everything that creeps upon the ground,
there went in two by two to Noah into the ark, male and female, as God commanded Noah.
And it came to pass after the seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on the same day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
In the selfsame day Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, entered into the ark,
they, and every beast according to its kind, and all the cattle according to their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth according to its kind, and every bird according to its kind, every bird of every sort.
And they went in to Noah into the ark, two by two of all flesh in which is the breath of life.
And those that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God commanded him. And Jehovah shut him in.
And the flood was forty days upon the earth. And the waters increased, and bore up the ark, and it was lifted up above the earth.
And the waters prevailed, and increased greatly upon the earth, and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth, and all the high mountains that were under the whole heaven were covered,
fifteen cubits upward. The waters prevailed, and the mountains were covered.
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, from birds, to cattle, to beasts, and every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth, and every man.
All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, of all that was on the dry land, died.
And every living thing was destroyed that was upon the face of the ground, from man, to cattle, to creeping things, and birds of the heavens, and they were destroyed from the earth. And only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark.
And the waters prevailed upon the earth a hundred and fifty days.