And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Make thee two trumpets of silver, of beaten work, shalt thou make them,—and they shall be unto thee for calling the assembly, and for setting forward the camps.
As soon as they blow therewith, so soon shall all the assembly assemble themselves unto thee, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting.
And, if, only once, they blow, then shall the princes, the heads of the thousands of Israel, gather themselves unto thee.
But when ye blow an alarm, then shall set forward the camps that are encamped eastwards;
and when ye blow a second alarm, then shall set forward the camps that are encamped southwards,—an alarm, shall they blow for setting them forward,
But in calling together the convocation, ye shall blow but shall not sound an alarm.
And, the sons of Aaron the priests, shall blow with the trumpets,—and it shall be unto you for a statute age-abiding, unto your generations.
And when ye go into war in your land against the assailant that assaileth you, then shall ye blow an alarm with the trumpets,—and bring yourselves to mind before Yahweh your God, and be saved, from your enemies,
And in your day of rejoicing and in your appointed seasons and in the beginnings of your months, then shall ye blow with the trumpets, over your ascending-sacrifices, and over your peace-offerings,—so shall they be unto you for a memorial before your God. I—Yahweh, am your God.
And so it came to pass in the second year, in the second month on the twentieth of the month, that the cloud lifted itself up, from off the habitation of the testimony;
and the sons of Israel set forward by their removals from the desert of Sinai, and then the cloud abode in the desert of Paran.
Thus then did they set forward for the first time,—at the bidding of Yahweh, by the hand of Moses.
So the standard of the camp of the sons of Judah set forward first, by their hosts, and over his own host, was Nahshon, son of Amminadab;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, Nethanel, son of Zuar;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, Eliab, son of Helon.
Then was taken down the habitation,—and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari set forward bearing the habitation.
Then set forward the standard of the camp of Reuben, by their hosts,—and over his own host, Elizur, son of Shedeur;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shelumiel, son of Zurishaddai;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Gad, Eliasaph, son of Deuel.
Then set forward the Kohathites, bearing the sanctuary,—and so the habitation was reared by the time they came in.
Then set forward the standard of the camp of the sons of Ephraim by their hosts,—and over his own host, was Elishama son of Ammihud;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, Gamaliel, son of Pedahzur;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, Abidan, son of Gideoni.
Then set forward the standard of the camp of the sons of Dan, bringing up the rear of all the camps, by their hosts,—and over his own host, Ahiezur, son of Ammishaddai;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Asher, Pagiel, son of Ochran;
and, over the host of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, Ahira, son of Enan.
These, were the settings-forward of the sons of Israel by their hosts,—thus did they set forward.
Then said Moses to Hobab, son of Raguel the Midianite, father-in-law of Moses: Setting forward, are we unto the place of which Yahweh hath said, The same, will I give unto you,—Oh come with us and we will do thee good, for, Yahweh, hath spoken good, concerning Israel.
And he said unto him, I will not go,—but unto my own land, and unto my own kindred, will I go.
Then said he: I beseech thee, do not forsake us,—for, on this account, hast thou come to know of our encamping in the desert, so shalt thou be unto us as eyes;
and it shall be if thou wilt go with us,—yea it shall be that with the very good wherewith Yahweh shall do us good, will we do good unto thee.
So then they went forward, from the mountain of Yahweh, a journey of three days,—and the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, was going before them a journey of three days, to search out for them a resting-place,
And the cloud of Yahweh, was over them by day,—when they set forward out of the camp.
And it came to pass when the ark set forward, that Moses said: Arise, O Yahweh! and scattered be thy foes, Let them that hate thee flee before thee;
But when it rested, he said,—Return, O Yahweh! unto the myriads of the thousands of Israel.