In conclusion, friends, pray for us — pray that the Lord’s message may spread rapidly, and be received everywhere with honor, as it was among you;
and that we may be preserved from wrong-headed and wicked people — for it is not everyone who believes in Christ.
But the Lord will not fail you; he will give you strength, and guard you from evil.
Yes, and the confidence that our union with the Lord enables us to place in you leads us to believe that you are doing, and will do, what we direct you.
May the Lord bring you to the love of God, and to the patience of the Christ.
We beg you, friends, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to avoid any follower who is living an ill-ordered life, which is not in agreement with the teaching that you received from us.
For you know well that you ought to follow our example. When we were with you, our life was not ill-ordered,
nor did we eat anyone’s bread without paying for it. Night and day, laboring and toiling, we used to work at our trades, so as not to be a burden on any of you.
This was not because we had not a right to receive support, but our object was to give you a pattern for you to copy.
Indeed, when we were with you, the rule we laid down was — ‘Whoever does not choose to work will not get to eat.’
We hear that there are among you people who are living ill-ordered lives, and who, instead of attending to their own business, are mere busybodies.
All such people we beg, and implore,, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to attend quietly to their business, and earn their own living.
You, friends, must not grow weary of doing what is right.
If anyone disregards what we have said in this letter, take note of them and avoid their company, so that they may feel ashamed.
Yet do not think of them as an enemy, but caution them as you would a brother or sister.
May the Lord, from whom all peace comes, himself give you his peace at all times and in all ways. May he be with you all.
I, Paul, add this greeting in my own handwriting. It is my signature to every letter. This is how I write.
May the blessing of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.