And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, My offering, My bread for My fire offerings, My soothing fragrance, you shall take heed to offer to Me in its appointed season.
And you shall say to them, This is the fire offering which you shall offer to Jehovah, two yearling lambs without blemish, day by day, as a continual burnt offering.
You shall offer the one lamb in the morning, and you shall offer the other lamb between the two evenings;
and a tenth of an ephah of flour for a food offering mixed with beaten oil, a fourth of a hin;
a continual burnt offering which was offered in Mount Sinai for a soothing fragrance, a fire offering to Jehovah;
and its drink offering, a fourth of a hin for the one lamb; pour a drink offering of strong drink to Jehovah in the sanctuary.
And you shall offer the other lamb between the evenings, even as the food offering of the morning, and as its drink offering, you shall offer as a sacrifice made by fire, a soothing fragrance to Jehovah.
And on the sabbath day, two lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones, and two tenth parts of flour, a food offering mixed with oil, and its drink offering;
the burnt offering of the sabbath on its sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
And in the beginning of your months you shall bring near a burnt offering to Jehovah: two bullocks, sons of the herd, and one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones.
and three tenth parts of flour, a food offering mixed with oil for the one bullock; and two tenths parts of flour as a food offering mixed with oil for the one ram;
and a tenth part of flour mixed with oil as a food offering for the one lamb; a burnt offering, a soothing fragrance, a fire offering to Jehovah;
and their drink offerings shall be a half of a hin to a bullock, and a third of a hin to a ram, and a fourth of a hin to a lamb, of wine. This shall be the burnt offering of every month for the months of the year.
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering to Jehovah; it shall be prepared besides the continual burnt offering, and its drink offering.
And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the Passover of Jehovah.
And in the fifteenth day of this month a feast: unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days.
In the first day shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no work of service.
And you shall offer a fire offering, a burnt offering to Jehovah: two bullocks, sons of the herd, and one ram, and seven lambs, sons of a year; they shall be perfect ones for you;
and their food offering, flour mixed with oil. You shall prepare three tenths parts for a bullock, and two tenths parts for a ram.
You shall prepare one tenth part for the one lamb, and for the seven lambs;
and one goat, a sin offering to atone for you,
besides the burnt offering of the morning, the continual burnt offering, you shall prepare these.
In this way you shall prepare daily, seven days, bread for a fire offering, a soothing fragrance to Jehovah. It shall be prepared besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.
And on the seventh day you shall have a holy gathering; you shall do no work of service.
And in the day of the firstfruits, as you offer a new food offering to Jehovah in your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy gathering; you shall do no work of service;
and you shall offer a burnt offering for a soothing fragrance to Jehovah: two bullocks, sons of the herd, one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year
and their food offering, flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts to the one bullock, two tenth parts to the one ram,
one tenth part to the one lamb, for the seven lambs;
one kid of the goats to atone for you.
You shall offer them besides the continual burnt offering and its food offering and drink offerings; they shall be perfect ones for you.