And this is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his death.
And he said, Jehovah came from Sinai, and rose from Seir to them. He shined forth from mount Paran, and he came from the ten thousands of holy ones. At his right hand was a fiery law for them.
Yea, he loves the people. All his sanctified are in thy hand, and they sat down at thy feet. He shall receive from thy words.
Moses commanded for us a law, an inheritance for the assembly of Jacob.
And he was king in Jeshurun when the heads of the people were gathered, all the tribes of Israel together.
Let Reuben live, and not die, nor let his men be few.
And this is of Judah: And he said, Hear, Jehovah, the voice of Judah, and bring him into his people. With his hands he contended for himself, and thou shall be a help against his adversaries.
And of Levi he said, Thy Thummim and thy Urim are with thy holy man, whom thou proved at Massah, with whom thou strove at the waters of Meribah,
who said of his father, and of his mother, I have not seen him, neither did he acknowledge his brothers, nor knew he his own sons, for they have observed thy word, and keep thy covenant.
They shall teach Jacob thine ordinances, and Israel thy law. They shall put incense before thee, and whole burnt offering upon thine altar.
Bless, Jehovah, his substance, and accept the work of his hands. Smite through the loins of those who rise up against him, and of those who hate him, that they not rise again.
Of Benjamin he said, The beloved of Jehovah shall dwell in safety by him. He covers him all the day long, and he dwells between his shoulders.
And of Joseph he said, Blessed of Jehovah be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep that couches beneath,
and for the precious things of the fruits of the sun, and for the precious things of the growth of the moons,
and for the chief things of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the everlasting hills,
and for the precious things of the earth and the fullness of it, and the good will of him who dwelt in the bush. Let it come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers.
The firstling of his herd, majesty is his. And his horns are the horns of the wild-ox. With them he shall push the peoples, all of them, even the ends of the earth. And they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh.
And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out, and, Issachar, in thy tents.
They shall call the peoples to the mountain. There they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness, for they shall suck the abundance of the seas, and the hidden treasures of the sand.
And of Gad he said, Blessed be he who enlarges Gad. He dwells as a lioness, and tears the arm, yea, the crown of the head.
And he provided the first part for himself, for there was the lawgiver's portion reserved. And he came with the heads of the people. He executed the righteousness of Jehovah, and his ordinances with Israel.
And of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's whelp that leaps forth from Bashan.
And of Naphtali he said, O Naphtali, satisfied with favor, and full with the blessing of Jehovah, possess thou the west and the south.
And of Asher he said, Blessed be Asher with sons. Let him be acceptable to his brothers, and let him dip his foot in oil.
Thy bars shall be iron and brass, and as thy days, so shall thy strength be.
There is none like God, O Jeshurun, who rides upon the heavens for thy help, and in his excellency on the skies.
The eternal God is thy dwelling-place, and underneath are the everlasting arms. And he thrust out the enemy from before thee, and said, Destroy.
And Israel dwells in safety, the fountain of Jacob alone, in a land of grain and new wine. Yea, his heavens drop down dew.
Happy are thou, O Israel. Who is like thee, a people saved by Jehovah, the shield of thy help, and the sword of thy excellency! And thine enemies shall submit themselves to thee, and thou shall tread upon their high places.