As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, So honor is not becoming to a fool.
As the sparrow wandereth, and the swallow flieth away, So the curse without cause shall not come.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, And a rod for the back of the fool.
Answer not a fool according to his folly, Lest thou also become like to him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own conceit.
He cutteth off the feet, and drinketh damage, Who sendeth a message by the hand of a fool.
The legs of a lame man hang loose; So is it with a proverb in the mouth of fools.
As he who bindeth a stone in a sling, So is he that giveth honor to a fool.
As a thorn lifted up by the hand of a drunkard, So is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
As an archer who woundeth every one, So is he who hireth fools and hireth wayfarers.
As a dog returneth to that which he hath vomited, So a fool repeateth his folly.
Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? There is more hope of a fool than of him.
The slothful man saith, "There is a lion in the way; There is a lion in the streets."
As a door turneth upon its hinges, So doth the sluggard upon his bed.
The sluggard dippeth his hand into the dish; It grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit Than seven men who can render a reason.
As one that taketh a dog by the ears, So is he who, passing by, is enraged on account of the quarrel of another.
As a madman That casteth about darts, arrows, and death,
So is the man who deceiveth his neighbor, And saith, "Was I not in sport?"
Where there is no wood, the fire goeth out; So, where there is no talebearer, contention ceaseth.
As coal is for heat, and as wood for fire, So is a contentious man for kindling strife.
The words of a talebearer are like dainties; For they go down to the innermost parts of the body.
As drossy silver spread over an earthen vessel, So are warm lips and an evil heart.
The hater dissembleth with his lips, And layeth up deceit within him.
When he speaketh fair, believe him not! For there are seven abominations in his heart.
His hatred is covered by deceit; His wickedness shall be revealed in the great assembly.
He that diggeth a pit shall fall therein; And he that rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him.
A lying tongue hateth those whom it woundeth, And a flattering mouth worketh ruin.