These also were the sonnes of Dauid which were borne vnto him in Hebron: the eldest Amnon of Ahinoam, the Izraelitesse: the seconde Daniel of Abigail the Carmelitesse:
The third Absalom the sonne of Maachah daughter of Talmai King of Geshur: the fourth Adoniiah the sonne of Haggith:
The fift Shepatiah of Abital: ye sixt Ithream by Eglah his wife.
These sixe were borne vnto him in Hebron: and there hee reigned seuen yeere and sixe moneths: and in Ierusalem he reigned three and thirtie yeere.
And these foure were borne vnto him in Ierusalem, Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Salomon of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel:
Ibhar also, and Elishama, and Eliphalet,
And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Iaphia,
And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine in nomber.
These are all the sonnes of Dauid, besides the sonnes of the concubines, and Thamar their sister.
And Salomons sonne was Rehoboam, whose sonne was Abiah, and Asa his sonne, and Iehoshaphat his sonne,
And Ioram his sonne, and Ahaziah his sonne, and Ioash his sonne,
And Amaziah his sonne, and Azariah his sonne, and Iotham his sonne,
And Ahaz his sonne, and Hezekiah his sonne, and Manasseh his sonne,
And Amon his sonne, and Iosiah his sonne.
And of the sonnes of Iosiah, the eldest was Iohanan, the second Iehoiakim, the thirde Zedekiah, and the fourth Shallum.
And the sonnes of Iehoiakim were Ieconiah his sonne, and Zedekiah his sonne.
And the sonnes of Ieconiah, Assir and Shealtiel his sonne:
Malchiram also and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Iecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
And the sonnes of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and the sonnes of Zerubbabel were Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister,
And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hazadiah, and Iushabheshed, fiue in nomber.
And the sonnes of Hananiah were Pelatiah, and Iesaiah: the sonnes of Rephaiah, the sonnes of Arnan, the sonnes of Obadiah, the sonnes of Shechaniah.
And the sonne of Shechaniah was Shemaiah: and the sonnes of Shemaiah were Hattush and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, sixe.
And the sonnes of Neariah were Elioenai, and Hezekiiah, and Azrikam, three.
And the sonnes of Elioenai were Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Iohanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seuen.