And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, You are holy, for I am holy, Jehovah your God.
Each man of you shall revere his mother and his father, and keep My sabbaths; I am Jehovah your God.
Do not turn to the idols; and you shall not make molten gods for yourselves; I am Jehovah your God.
And if you sacrifice a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah, you shall sacrifice it of your free will;
it shall be eaten in the day of your sacrificing it, and on the morrow, and that which is left on the third day shall be burned with fire.
And if it is at all eaten on the third day, it is unclean; it shall not be accepted.
And he who eats it, he shall bear his iniquity; for he has polluted the holy thing of Jehovah, and that person shall be cut off from his people.
And as you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not completely reap the corner of your field; and you shall not gather the gleaning of your harvest;
and you shall not glean your vineyard, and you shall not gather the leavings of your vineyard; you shall leave them to the poor and to the alien; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall not steal nor lie, nor deceive to one another.
And you shall not swear by My name to a falsehood; nor shall you pollute the name of your God; I am Jehovah.
You shall not extort your neighbor, nor rob; you shall not allow the wages of one hired to remain with you until morning.
You shall not revile the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind; for you shall revere your God. I am Jehovah.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment; you shall not respect the person of the poor, nor favor the person of the mighty; but in righteousness you shall judge your neighbor.
You shall not go as a slanderer among your people; you shall not stand up against the blood of your neighbor; I am Jehovah.
You shall not hate your brother in your heart; you shall certainly reprove your neighbor, and not allow sin on him.
You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people; but you shall love your neighbor as yourself; I am Jehovah.
You shall keep my statutes; you shall not cause your livestock to breed with different kinds; you shall not sow two kinds in your field; and you shall not allow a garment mixed of linen and wool to come upon you.
And when a man lies with a woman with semen, and she is a slave-girl, betrothed to a man, and not truly redeemed, and freedom not having been given to her, there shall be an inquest; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
And he shall bring in his guilt offering to Jehovah, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, a ram for a guilt offering.
And the priest shall atone for him with the ram of the guilt offering before Jehovah for his sin which he has sinned; and it shall be forgiven him because of his sin he has sinned.
And when you come into the land and have planted all of the food trees, then you shall expose its foreskin, its fruit, it shall be uncircumcised for you three years; it shall not be eaten.
And in the fourth year all its fruit is holy; it is for praises for Jehovah.
And in the fifth year you shall eat its fruit, that it may yield to you its increase; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall not eat with the blood; you shall not divine, nor conjure spirits .
You shall not round the corner of your head, nor mar the corner of your beard.
And you shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead; and you shall not put on yourself any etched mark; I am Jehovah.
You shall not pollute your daughter, to cause her to be a prostitute, that the land may not go whoring, and the land become full of wickedness.
You shall keep My sabbaths; and you shall revere My sanctuary. I am Jehovah.
You shall not turn to those having familiar spirits; and you shall not seek to spiritists to be defiled by them; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall rise up in the face of gray hair; and you shall honor the face of an old man; and be afraid of your God. I am Jehovah.
And when an alien lives with you in your land, you shall not oppress him;
as the native among you, so shall be the alien who is staying with you; and you shall love him as yourself, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt; I am Jehovah your God.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures and weights, or in quantity.
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin. I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out from the land of Egypt;
and you shall observe all My statutes, and all My judgments and shall do them; I am Jehovah.