Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices. And the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
And the priests could not enter into the house of Jehovah, because the glory of Jehovah filled Jehovah's house.
And all the sons of Israel looked on when the fire came down, and the glory of Jehovah was upon the house. And they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshiped, and gave thanks to Jehovah, saying, For he is good. For his loving kindness is forever.
Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before Jehovah.
And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty-two thousand oxen, and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated the house of God.
And the priests stood according to their offices, also the Levites with instruments of music of Jehovah, which David the king had made to give thanks to Jehovah (for his loving kindness is forever) when David praised by their ministry, and the priests sounded trumpets before them. And all Israel stood.
Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before the house of Jehovah. For there he offered the burnt offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the brazen altar which Solomon had made was not able to receive the burnt offering, and the meal offering, and the fat.
So Solomon held the feast at that time seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Egypt.
And on the eighth day they held a solemn assembly. For they kept the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.
And on the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people away to their tents, joyful and glad of heart for the goodness that Jehovah had shown to David, and to Solomon, and to Israel his people.
Thus Solomon finished the house of Jehovah, and the king's house. And all that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house of Jehovah, and in his own house, he caused to prosper.
And Jehovah appeared to Solomon by night, and said to him, I have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for a house of sacrifice.
If I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or if I command the locust to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people,
if my people, who are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.
Now my eyes shall be open, and my ears attend to the prayer that is made in this place.
For now I have chosen and hallowed this house, that my name may be there forever, and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually.
And as for thee, if thou will walk before me as David thy father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and will keep my statutes and mine ordinances,
then I will establish the throne of thy kingdom, according as I covenanted with David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.
But if ye turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and worship them,
then I will pluck them up by the roots out of my land which I have given them. And this house, which I have hallowed for my name, I will cast out of my sight, and I will make it a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
And this house, which is so high, everyone who passes by it shall be astonished, and shall say, Why has Jehovah done thus to this land, and to this house?
And they shall answer, Because they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other gods, and worshiped them, and served them; therefore he has brought all this evil upon them.