And you shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined bleached linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet. You shall make them with cherubs, of the work of a cunning workman.
The length of one curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits. And every one of the curtains shall have one measure.
The five curtains shall be coupled together, each to its sister. And five curtains shall be coupled together, each to its sister.
And you shall make loops of blue on the edge of one curtain, from the end at the juncture; and so you shall do at the edge of the last curtain, at the second juncture.
You shall make fifty loops in the one curtain, and you shall make fifty loops in the end of the curtain which is at second juncture, the corresponding loops each to her sister.
You shall make fifty clasps of gold, and you shall join the curtains each to her sister by the clasps. And it shall be one tabernacle.
And you shall make curtains of goats' hair to be a tent over the tabernacle. You shall make eleven curtains.
The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits, one measure to the eleven curtains.
And you shall join five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves. And you shall double the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tabernacle.
And you shall make fifty loops on the edge of one curtain, the last at the juncture, and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain that joins second.
And you shall make fifty clasps of bronze, and put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together, so that it may be one.
And the rest that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the backside of the tabernacle.
And the cubit from this side, and the cubit from that side that remains in the length of the curtains of the tent shall be hung over the sides of the tabernacle, from this and from that side, to cover it.
And you shall make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering above of dugong skins.
And you shall make boards for the tabernacle of acacia-wood standing up.
Ten cubits shall be the length of one board, and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth of one board.
There shall be two pins in one board, each connected to its sister-piece. So you shall do for all the boards of the tabernacle.
And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards on the south side southward.
And you shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards-- two sockets under one board for its two pins, and two sockets under another board for its two pins.
And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side shall be twenty boards,
and their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
And for the sides of the tabernacle westward you shall make six boards.
And you shall make two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the sides.
And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be coupled together above the head of it to one ring. So it shall be for them both. They shall be for the two corners.
And there shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets, two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
And you shall make bars of acacia-wood, five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle; and five bars for the side of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward.
And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from end to end.
And you shall overlay the boards with gold, and you shall make their rings of gold, housings for the bars. And you shall overlay the bars with gold.
And you shall rear up the tabernacle according to the pattern of it which was shown you in the mountain.
And you shall make a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen of embroidered work. It shall be made with cherubs.
And you shall hang it upon four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold. Their hooks shall be of gold, upon the four sockets of silver.
And you shall hang up the veil under the clasps, that you may bring the ark of the testimony in there within the veil. And the veil shall divide for you between the holy place and the Holy of Holies.
And you shall put the mercy-seat upon the ark of the testimony in the Holy of Holies.
And you shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand over against the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south. And you shall put the table on the north side.
And you shall make a screen for the door of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen, worked with needlework.
And you shall make five pillars of acacia-wood for the screen, and overlay them with gold; their hooks shall be of gold. And you shall cast five sockets of bronze for them.