And it came to pass, after we had torn ourselves from them, and had put to sea, that we came with a straight course to Cos, and the day following to Rhodes, and from thence to Patara.
And finding a ship crossing over to Phenicia, we went aboard, and put to sea.
And having come in sight of Cyprus, we passed it on the left, and sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre; for there the ship was to unlade her cargo.
And having found out the disciples, we remained there seven days; and they told Paul, through the Spirit, not to go up to Jerusalem.
And when we had completed the days, we departed, and went our way, they all accompanying us, with wives and children, till we were out of the city; and having kneeled down on the shore and prayed,
we took leave of each other, and went on board the ship; and they returned home.
But we, finishing our voyage, came down from Tyre to Ptolemais; and having embraced the brethren, remained with them one day.
And on the morrow we departed, and came to Caesarea; and entering the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him.
And this man had four daughters, virgins, who prophesied.
And while we were staying some days longer, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus;
and coming to us, he took off Paul’s girdle, and bound his own feet and hands, and said, Thus saith the Holy Spirit: So will the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and will deliver him into the hands of the gentiles.
But when we heard this, both we, and they of that place, besought him not to go to Jerusalem.
Then answered Paul, What mean ye that ye weep, and break my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased; saying, The Lord’s will be done.
And after those days we got ready our baggage, and went up to Jerusalem.
There went with us also some of the disciples of Caesarea, bringing us to one Mnason, a Cyprian, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge.
And when we arrived at Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.
And the day following Paul went in with us to James; and all the elders were present.
And having embraced them, he recounted particularly what things God had wrought among the gentiles through his ministry.
And they on hearing it glorified God; and said to him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of believers there are among the Jews, and they are all zealots for the Law.
But they have been informed concerning thee, that thou teachest all the Jews who are among the gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children, nor to walk after the customs.
What then is to be done? The multitude will necessarily come together; for they will hear that thou hast come.
Do this therefore that we advise thee. We have four men who have a vow on them.
These take, and purify thyself with them, and pay the expenses for them, that they may shave their heads; and all will know that those things of which they have been informed concerning thee are nothing, but that thou thyself also walkest in observance of the Law.
But concerning the gentile believers, we have written to them and decided that they should observe no such thing, save only to abstain from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from what hath been strangled, and from fornication.
Then Paul took the men, and the next day having purified himself with them, entered the temple, announcing the completion of the days of the purification, until the offering was made for every one of them.
And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews from Asia, having seen him in the temple, stirred up the whole multitude, and laid hands on him,
crying out, Men of Israel, help! This is the man that teacheth every one everywhere against the people, and the Law, and this place; and besides he even brought Greeks into the temple, and hath polluted this holy place.
For they had before seen with him in the city Trophimus, the Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.
And the whole city was in motion, and the people ran together; and they laid hold of Paul and dragged him out of the temple; and forthwith the doors were shut.
And while they were endeavoring to kill him, tidings came up to the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar;
who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down to them. And seeing the chief captain and the soldiers, they left off beating Paul.
Then the chief captain came near and laid hold of him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and inquired who he was, and what he had done.
And some cried one thing, and some another, among the multitude. And not being able to gain certain knowledge on account of the uproar, he ordered him to be carried into the castle.
And when he reached the stairs, he was obliged to be borne by the soldiers, on account of the violence of the crowd;
for the multitude of the people were following, crying out, Away with him!
And as he was about to be led into the castle, Paul saith to the chief captain, May I speak to thee? And he said, Canst thou speak Greek?
Art thou not then the Egyptian, who before these days made an insurrection, and led out into the wilderness those four thousand men of the assassins?
But Paul said, I am a Jew of Tarsus, a citizen of no mean city of Cilicia; and I beseech thee, suffer me to speak to the people.
And when he had given him leave, Paul stood on the stairs, and beckoned with his hand to the people, and there was a great silence; and he spoke to them in the Hebrew tongue, saying,