And it came to pass after these things, that God proved Abraham, and said to him, Abraham. And he said, Here I am.
And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, whom thou love, even Isaac, and get thee into the land of Moriah. And offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
And Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. And he split the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went to the place of which God had told him.
On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
And Abraham said to his young men, Abide ye here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go yonder, and we will worship, and come again to you.
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. And they went both of them together.
And Isaac spoke to Abraham his father, and said, My father. And he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?
And Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. So they went both of them together.
And they came to the place which God had told him of. And Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood.
And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
And the agent of Jehovah called to him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here I am.
And he said, Do not lay thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything to him. For now I know that thou fear God, since thou have not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me.
And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering instead of his son.
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh. As it is said to this day, In the mount of Jehovah it shall be provided.
And the agent of Jehovah called to Abraham a second time out of heaven,
and said, By myself I have sworn, says Jehovah, because thou have done this thing, and have not withheld thy son, thine only son,
that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand which is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies,
and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou have obeyed my voice.
So Abraham returned to his young men. And they rose up and went together to Beersheba. And Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.
And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she also has borne sons to thy brother Nahor:
Uz his first born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
And Bethuel begot Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother.
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she also bore Tebah, and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah.