Having therefore these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every filthiness of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in fear of God.
Make room for us. We wronged no man, we corrupted no man, we exploited no man.
I speak not for condemnation, for I have said before that ye are in our hearts to die together and to live together.
Great is my boldness toward you, great is my pride for you. I have been filled with encouragement. I over-abound with joy in all our affliction.
For even when we came into Macedonia our flesh had not one relief, but being oppressed in everything: battles outside, fears within.
Nevertheless God, who encourages the lowly, encouraged us by the arrival of Titus.
And not only by his presence, but also by the encouragement with which he was encouraged by you, reporting to us your earnest desire, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced the more.
Because even though I grieved you in the letter, I am not remorseful (even though I was remorseful), for I perceive that that letter grieved you, even though for an hour.
Now I rejoice, not that ye were grieved, but that ye were grieved for repentance. For ye were grieved toward God, so that ye might suffer loss from us in nothing.
For sorrow toward God works repentance for salvation without regret, but the sorrow of the world works death.
For behold this same thing-your grieving toward God. How much eagerness it worked in you, even a defense, even indignation, even fear, even longing, even zeal, even vengeance! In everything ye demonstrated yourselves to be pure in the matter.
And so then, although I wrote to you, it was not because of the man who did wrong, nor because of the man who was wronged, but in order to reveal to you your eagerness for us in the sight of God.
Because of this we have been encouraged. And from your encouragement, we rejoiced to a greater degree more at the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all.
Because, if I have boasted anything to him about you, I am not ashamed, but as we spoke all things in truth to you, so also our boast to Titus became truth.
And his bowels are more abundant toward you, remembering the obedience of you all, how ye received him with fear and trembling.
I rejoice that I have confidence in you in everything.