The Spirit of the lord Jehovah is upon me, because Jehovah has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to heal the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, and the opening of bonds to those who are bound,
to proclaim the acceptable year of Jehovah, and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn,
to appoint to those who mourn in Zion, to give to them a garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Jehovah, that he may be glorified.
And they shall build the old wastes. They shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations.
And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and foreigners shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.
But ye shall be named the priests of Jehovah. Men shall call you the ministers of our God. Ye shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory ye shall boast yourselves.
Instead of your shame ye shall have double, and instead of dishonor they shall rejoice in their portion. Therefore in their land they shall possess double. Everlasting joy shall be to them.
For I, Jehovah, love justice. I hate robbery with iniquity. And I will give them their recompense in truth. And I will make an everlasting covenant with them.
And their seed shall be known among the nations, and their offspring among the peoples. All who see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which Jehovah has blessed.
I will greatly rejoice in Jehovah. My soul shall be joyful in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
For as the earth brings forth its bud, and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to spring forth, so the lord Jehovah will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.