Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, to the sanctified who are at Ephesus, and faithful in Christ Jesus:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly things in Christ.
Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, for us to be holy and unblemished before him in love.
Who predestined us for sonship through Jesus Christ for himself, according to the desire of his will,
for appreciation of the glory of his grace, by which he blessed us in him who is beloved.
In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of transgressions, according to the wealth of his grace,
which he abounded for us in all wisdom and intelligence.
Having made known to us the mystery of his will according to his desire, which he purposed within himself
for an administration of the fullness of the times. To gather together all things in the Christ, things in the heavens and things upon the earth,
in him in whom also we obtained an inheritance. Having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the deliberation of his will,
for us to be for appreciation of his glory, men who have first hoped in the Christ.
In whom ye also, having heard the word of the truth, the good news of your salvation, in whom also having believed, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of the promise,
which is a pledge of our inheritance, for the redemption of the acquired possession, for appreciation of his glory.
Because of this I also, having heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love for all the sanctified,
I cease not expressing thanks for you, making remembrance of you in my prayers.
So that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in knowledge of him,
having the eyes of your heart enlightened. For you to know what is the hope of his calling, and what is the wealth of the glory of his inheritance in the sanctified,
and what is the transcending greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of the dominion of his might,
which he wrought in the Christ, having raised him from the dead and seated at his right hand in the heavenly things,
far above every principle office, and position of authority, and power, and lordship, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is coming.
And he subordinated all things under his feet, and appointed him head over all things for the church,
which is his body, the fulfillment of him who fills all in all.