And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples says to him, Master, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here!
And Jesus answering said to him, See you these great buildings? there shall not be left one stone on another, that shall not be thrown down.
And as he sat on the mount of Olives over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately,
Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign when all these things shall be fulfilled?
And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed lest any man deceive you:
For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.
And when you shall hear of wars and rumors of wars, be you not troubled: for such things must needs be; but the end shall not be yet.
For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorrows.   ¶
But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils; and in the synagogues you shall be beaten: and you shall be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them.
And the gospel must first be published among all nations.
But when they shall lead you, and deliver you up, take no thought beforehand what you shall speak, neither do you premeditate: but whatever shall be given you in that hour, that speak you: for it is not you that speak, but the Holy Ghost.
Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the son; and children shall rise up against their parents, and shall cause them to be put to death.
And you shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake: but he that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved.   ¶
But when you shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it should not, (let him that reads understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to the mountains:
And let him that is on the housetop not go down into the house, neither enter therein, to take any thing out of his house:
And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to take up his garment.
But woe to them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days!
And pray you that your flight be not in the winter.
For in those days shall be affliction, such as was not from the beginning of the creation which God created to this time, neither shall be.
And except that the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh should be saved: but for the elect’s sake, whom he has chosen, he has shortened the days.
And then if any man shall say to you, See, here is Christ; or, see, he is there; believe him not:
For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall show signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, even the elect.
But take you heed: behold, I have foretold you all things.   ¶
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light,
And the stars of heaven shall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall be shaken.
And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.
And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven.
Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yet tender, and puts forth leaves, you know that summer is near:
So you in like manner, when you shall see these things come to pass, know that it is near, even at the doors.
Truly I say to you, that this generation shall not pass, till all these things be done.
Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.   ¶
But of that day and that hour knows no man, no, not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father.
Take you heed, watch and pray: for you know not when the time is.
For the Son of Man is as a man taking a far journey, who left his house, and gave authority to his servants, and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch.
Watch you therefore: for you know not when the master of the house comes, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock-crowing, or in the morning:
Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping.
And what I say to you I say to all, Watch.