THESE things have I spoken, that ye might not be stumbled.
They will put you out of their synagogues: yea, the hour is coming, that every one who killeth you will think he offers God a sacred service.
And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father, nor me.
But these things have I spoken to you, that when the hour is come, ye may remember the same for I had told you. But these things I told you not at the beginning, because I was with you.
But now I am going away to him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither art thou going?
But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow hath filled your heart.
Yet I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I went not away, the Comforter would not come to you; but if I go, I will send him unto you.
And when he cometh, he will convince the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment:
of sin first, because they believe not in me;
then of righteousness, because I am going to the Father, so ye see me no more;
and of judgment, because the ruler of this world hath sentence pronounced on him.
I have many things to say to you, but ye cannot bear them just now.
But when he is come, the Spirit of truth, he will conduct you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever things he shall hear, he shall speak: and he will declare to you the things that shall come hereafter.
He shall glorify me: for he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.
All things whatsoever the Father hath are mine: therefore I said, that he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.
A little while longer, and ye shall not see me: and again a little while, and ye shall see me, because I am going to the Father.
Then said some of the disciples unto each other, What is this which he saith to us, A little while longer, and ye shall not see me: and again a little while, and ye shall see me: and this, because I am going to the Father?
They said therefore, What is this which he saith, This little while? we know not what he means.
Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto them, Are ye questioning among yourselves concerning this declaration, which I spake, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again a little while, and ye shall see me?
Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be very sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but when the little son is born, she no more remembers the anguish, for joy that a man is brought into the world.
And ye therefore have indeed at present sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall be made glad, and your joy no man taketh from you.
And in that hour ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, That whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give you.
Hitherto ye have asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be complete.
These things have I spoken to you in parables: but the hour is coming when I will no more speak to you in parables, but will plainly inform you respecting the Father.
In that day ye shall ask in my name: and I do not say to you, I will entreat the Father for you:
for the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God.
I came out from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I am leaving the world, and going to the Father.
His disciples said unto him, Lo! now thou speakest plainly, and speakest in no-wise proverbial.
Now we know that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any person should ask thee: by this we believe that thou hast come forth from God.
Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe?
Behold, the hour is coming, yea, it is already come, that ye shall be dispersed, each after his own concerns, and shall leave me alone: though I am not alone, because the Father is with me.
These things have I spoken to you, that ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good courage; I have overcome the world.