Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than he who is perverse in his lips and is a fool.
Also, that the soul be without knowledge is not good. And he who hastens with his feet sins.
The foolishness of a man subverts his way, and his heart rages against Jehovah.
Wealth adds many friends, but a poor man is separated from his friend.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he who utters lies shall not escape.
Many will entreat the favor of a generous man, and every man is a friend to him who gives gifts.
All the brothers of a poor man regard him inferior, how much more do his friends go far from him! He pursues with words, but they are gone.
He who gets wisdom loves his own soul. He who keeps understanding shall find good.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he who utters lies shall perish.
Luxurious living is not fitting for a fool, much less for a servant to have rule over rulers.
The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger, and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.
The king's wrath is as the roaring of a lion, but his favor is as dew upon the grass.
A foolish son is the calamity of his father, and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.
House and riches are an inheritance from fathers, but a prudent wife is from Jehovah.
Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep, and the idle soul shall suffer hunger.
He who keeps the commandment keeps his soul. He who is careless of his ways shall die.
He who has pity upon a poor man lends to Jehovah, and he will repay him his good deed.
Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying.
A man of great wrath shall bear the penalty, for if thou deliver him, thou must do it yet again.
Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou may be wise in thy latter end.
There are many devices in a man's heart, but the counsel of Jehovah, that shall stand.
That which makes a man to be desired is his kindness, and a poor man is better than a liar.
The fear of Jehovah is life to a man, and he shall abide satisfied. He shall not be visited with evil.
The sluggard buries his hand in the dish, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.
Smite a scoffer, and a simple man will learn prudence. And reprove him who has understanding, and he will understand knowledge.
He who does violence to his father, and chases away his mother, is a son that causes shame and brings reproach.
To err from the words of knowledge, cease, my son, to hear instruction.
A worthless witness mocks at justice, and the mouth of the wicked swallows iniquity.
Judgments are prepared for scoffers, and stripes for the back of fools.