Thus, said Yahweh unto me,—Go and buy for thyself a linen girdle, and put upon thy loins,—but in water, shalt thou not place it.
So I bought a girdle according to the word of Yahweh,—and put upon my loins.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto me second time saying:
Take the girdle which thou hast bought which is upon thy loins,—and arise go to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole of the cliff.
So I went, and hid it, by the Euphrates, as Yahweh had commanded me.
And it came to pass, at the end of many days,—that Yahweh said unto me,—Arise go to the Euphrates, and take from thence the girdle, which I commanded thee to hide there.
So I went to the Euphrates, and digged, and took the girdle out of the place where I had hidden it,—and lo! the girdle was spoiled, it was good for nothing,
Then came the word of Yahweh unto me saying:
Thus, saith Yahweh,—After this manner, will I spoil the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem.
This wicked people who are refusing to hear my words, who are walking in the stubbornness of their heart, and have gone after other gods, to serve them and to bow down to them, yea let them be like this girdle, which is good for nothing.
For as a girdle cleaveth unto the loins of a man, so caused I to cleave unto me—the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah Declareth Yahweh, to become mine—For a people, and For a name, and For a praise and For an adorning,—but they hearkened not.
Therefore shalt thou say unto them this word—Thus, saith Yahweh God of Israel, Every jar, is to be filled with wine; and they will say unto thee, Do we not, know well, that every jar, is to be filled with wine?
Then shalt thou say unto them—Thus, saith Yahweh—Behold me! filling all the inhabitants of this land Even the kings that are sitting for David upon his throne and the priests and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem—with drunkenness;
and I will dash them every man against his brother even the fathers and the sons together, Declareth Yahweh,—I will not pity, Neither will I spare, Neither will I have compassion, that I should not destroy them.
Hear ye and give ear, be not haughty,—For Yahweh, hath spoken.
Give ye to Yahweh your God—glory, Before he cause darkness, and Before your feet stumble upon the twilight mountains; Lest, when ye wait for light, He turn it into the shadow of death, And change it for thick darkness.
But if ye will not hear it, In secret places, shall my soul weep Because of the pride, And mine eye, shall flow over, and run down with tears, Because captive hath been taken the flock of Yahweh.
Say thou to the king and to the queen-mother, Abase yourselves—Sit down,—For descended have your Head-tires, your Crown of adornment.
The cities of the South, are shut And there is none to open,—Judah hath been carried away captive, She hath altogether been carried away captive in full number.
Lift up your eyes and see Them who are coming in from the North,—Where is The flock that was given thee, Thy beautiful flock?
What wilt thou say when he shall bring punishment upon thee, Since, thou thyself, hast accustomed them to be over thee as friends in chief? Shall not, pangs, seize thee, as of a woman in childbirth?
But if thou say in thy heart, Wherefore have these things befallen me? For the greatness of thine iniquity have Thy skirts been turned aside Thy heels suffered violence!
Can the Ethiopian change, his skin, Or the leopard his spots? Even, ye, may be able to do right, Who are accustomed to do wrong.
Therefore have I scattered them, As broken straw passing away, by the wind of the desert.
This is thy lot Thy measured portion from me, Declareth Yahweh; For that thou didst forget me, And confide in falsehood:
Therefore, even I myself, have drawn away thy skirts, over thy face, And thy shame hath been seen,
Thine adulteries and thy neighings, thine unchaste wickedness, Upon the hills in the field, I have seen thine abominations! Woe to thee, O Jerusalem, Wilt thou not become pure? After how long yet?