Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ has made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.
Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if all of you be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are justified by the law; all of you are fallen from grace.
For we through the Spirit (o. pneuma) wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.
For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision avails any thing, nor uncircumcision; but faith which works by love. (o. agape)
All of you did run well; who did hinder you that all of you should not obey the truth?
This persuasion comes not of him that calls you.
A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
I have confidence in you through the Lord, that all of you will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubles you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be.
And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased.
I would they were even cut off which trouble you.
For, brethren, all of you have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love (o. agape) serve one another.
For all the law is fulfilled in one word, (o. logos) even in this; You shall love your neighbour as yourself.
But if all of you bite and devour one another, take heed that all of you be not consumed one of another.
This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, (o. pneuma) and all of you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh.
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, (o. pneuma) and the Spirit (o. pneuma) against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that all of you cannot do the things that all of you would.
But if all of you be led of the Spirit, (o. pneuma) all of you are not under the law.
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, worldy jealousies, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies,
Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit (o. pneuma) is love, (o. agape) joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,
Meekness, wilful restrain: against such there is no law.
And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts.
If we live in the Spirit, (o. pneuma) let us also walk in the Spirit. (o. pneuma)
Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another.