For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him,
to whom also Abraham gave a tenth of all, being, first, by interpretation, King of righteousness, and then, also, King of Salem, which means King of peace,
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life, but being made to resemble the Son of God, remains a priest forever.
Now consider how great this man was, to whom even the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the spoils.
And those of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:
but he who does not count his genealogy from them, received tithes from Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And, without any contradiction, the less is blessed by the better.
And in the one instance, men that die receive tithes; but in the other, he receives them who has the testimony that he lives.
And so to speak, even Levi, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham;
for he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him.
If, then, there had been a perfect expiation by means of the Levitical priesthood, (for with reference to it, the people received the law,) what further need was there that another priest should be raised up after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
It is evident that, when the priest hood is changed, there is of necessity a change also of the law.
For he of whom these things are said, belongs to another tribe, from which no one attended upon the altar.
For it is very clear that our Lord sprung from Judah, of which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priesthood.
And it is yet far more evident, if, after the likeness of Melchisedec, there arises another priest,
who is made, not according to the law of a fleshly commandment, but according to the power of an endless life; for he testifies,
Thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchisedec.
For, indeed, there is a setting aside of the preceding commandment, because it was weak and unprofitable,
(for the law made no perfect expiation), and the introduction of a better hope, by which we draw near to God.
And inasmuch as he was made a priest, not without an oath,
(for those priests were made such without an oath, but this one with an oath, by him that said to him, The Lord swore, and will not repent, Thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchisedec;)
in so much has Jesus become the surety of a better covenant.
And those priests, indeed, have been many, because they were prevented by death from continuing in office.
But this man, because he continues forever, has an unchangeable priesthood.
Wherefore, he is able also to save through all time those who come to God by him, since he always lives to make intercession for them.
For such a high priest is suited to us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and exalted above the heavens;
who needs not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.
For the law makes men high priests, who have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was after the law, makes the Son, who is perfected forever.