If then ye were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is sitting on the right hand of God.
Set your mind on the things above, not on things on the earth.
For ye died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God;
when Christ, our life, shall be manifested, then will ye also be manifested with him in glory.
Make dead therefore your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, lust, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry;
on account of which things cometh the wrath of God.
In which things ye also once walked, when ye lived in them;
but now put ye away all these, anger, wrath, malice, evil-speaking, filthy language out of your mouth.
Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds,
and have put on the new man, who is renewed unto knowledge after the image of him that created him;
where there is no Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bondman, freeman; but Christ is all, and in all.
Clothe yourselves, therefore, as the chosen of God, holy and beloved, with compassionate affections, kindness, lowliness of mind, meekness, long-suffering;
bearing with each other, and forgiving each other, if any one have a complaint against another; even as Christ freely forgave you, do ye also freely forgive;
and over all these things put on the robe of love, which is the bond of perfectness;
and let the peace of Christ, to which ye were called in one body, rule in your hearts; and be ye thankful.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, in grace singing in your hearts to God;
and whatever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God, the Father, through him.
Wives, submit yourselves to your husbands, as it is fit in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.
Children, obey your parents in all things; for this is well-pleasing in the Lord.
Fathers, provoke not your children, lest they be discouraged.
Bond-servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing the Lord.
Whatever ye do, do it from the heart, as to the Lord, and not to men,
knowing that from the Lord ye will receive the recompense of the inheritance; serve Christ as your Lord.
For he that doeth wrong, shall receive back the wrong which he hath done; and there is no respect of persons.