And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, When you have come into the land of your dwelling places, which I give to you,
and will make an offering by fire to the LORD, a burnt offering or a sacrifice in performing a vow, or in a free-will offering, or in your solemn feasts, to make a sweet savor to the LORD, from the herd or from the flock,
then he who offers his offering to the LORD shall bring a food offering of a tenth part of flour mixed with the fourth of a hin of oil.
And the fourth of a hin of wine for a drink offering shall you prepare with the burnt offering, or sacrifice, for one lamb.
Or for a ram, you shall prepare a food offering, two-tenth parts of flour mixed with the third of a hin of oil.
And for a drink offering you shall offer the third of a hin of wine for a sweet savor to the LORD.
And when you prepare a bull, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings to the LORD,
then he shall bring with the bull, a food offering of three-tenth parts of flour mixed with half a hin of oil.
And you shall bring for a drink offering half a hin of wine, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
So it shall be done for one bull, or for one ram, or for a lamb, or a kid.
According to the number that you shall prepare, so you shall do to everyone according to their number.
All that are born of the country shall do these things in this way, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And if a stranger stays with you, or whoever is among you in your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire of a sweet savor to the LORD; as you do, so he shall do.
One ordinance for you of the congregation and also for the stranger that resides with you, an ordinance forever in your generations. As you are, so the stranger shall be before the LORD.
One law and one way shall be for you and for the stranger that lives with you.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land where I bring you,
then it shall be that when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall offer up a heave offering to the LORD.
You shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough, a heave offering, as the heave offering of the threshing-floor, so you shall lift it up.
Of the first of your dough you shall give to the LORD a heave offering in your generations.
And if you have erred and have not done all these commandments which the LORD has spoken to Moses,
all that the LORD has commanded you by the hand of Moses from the day that the LORD commanded, and onward in your generations,
then it shall be if it is committed by ignorance without the knowledge of the congregation, all the congregation shall offer up one young bull for a burnt offering, for a sweet savor to the LORD, with its food offering and its drink offering, according to the ordinance, and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.
And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them, for it is ignorance. And they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their ignorance.
And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the sons of Israel and the stranger that lives among them, since all the people were in ignorance.
And if one soul sins through ignorance, then he shall bring a female goat of the first year for a sin offering.
And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul, when he sins through error before the LORD, to make an atonement for him. And it shall be forgiven him.
And you shall have one law for him who acts through ignorance; for him that is native among the sons of Israel and for the alien that resides among them.
But the soul who acts with a high hand, whether of the native or of the alien, the same blasphemes the LORD. And that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
Because he has despised the word of the LORD and has broken His commandment, that soul shall be utterly cut off. His iniquity shall be upon him.
And while the sons of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the sabbath day.
And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation.
And they put him under guard because it had not been clearly said what should be done to him.
And the LORD said to Moses, The man shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp.
And all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him with stones, and he died, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and command them that they make fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of the borders a ribbon of blue.
And it shall be to you for a fringe, that you may look upon it and remember all the commands of the LORD, and do them; and so that you do not seek after your own heart and your own eyes, after which you prostitute yourself,
that you may remember and do all My commands, and be holy to your God.
I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am the LORD your God.