Now this is the commandment, the statutes and the ordinances, which Jehovah your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them in the land where ye go over to possess it,
that thou might fear Jehovah thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son, all the days of thy life, and that thy days may be prolonged.
Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it, that it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as Jehovah, the God of thy fathers, has promised to thee, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
Hear, O Israel: Jehovah our God is one Jehovah.
And thou shall love Jehovah thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.
And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be upon thy heart.
And thou shall teach them diligently to thy sons, and shall talk of them when thou sit in thy house, and when thou walk by the way, and when thou lie down, and when thou rise up.
And thou shall bind them for a sign upon thy hand, and they shall be for frontlets between thine eyes.
And thou shall write them upon the door-posts of thy house, and upon thy gates.
And it shall be, when Jehovah thy God shall bring thee into the land which he swore to thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give thee, great and goodly cities, which thou did not build,
and houses full of all good things, which thou did not fill, and cisterns hewn out, which thou did not hew, vineyards and olive trees, which thou did not plant, and thou shall eat and be full,
then beware lest thou forget Jehovah, who brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Thou shall fear Jehovah thy God, and him thou shall serve, and shall swear by his name.
Ye shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the peoples that are round about you,
for Jehovah thy God in the midst of thee is a jealous God, lest the anger of Jehovah thy God be kindled against thee, and he destroy thee from off the face of the earth.
Ye shall not challenge Jehovah your God, as ye challenged him in Massah.
Ye shall diligently keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded thee.
And thou shall do that which is right and good in the sight of Jehovah, that it may be well with thee, and that thou may go in and possess the good land which Jehovah swore to thy fathers,
to thrust out all thine enemies from before thee, as Jehovah has spoken.
When thy son asks thee in time to come, saying, What is the meaning of the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which Jehovah our God has commanded you?
Then thou shall say to thy son, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt, and Jehovah brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
And Jehovah showed signs and wonders, great and grievous, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his house, before our eyes.
And he brought us out from there that he might bring us in to give us the land which he swore to our fathers.
And Jehovah commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear Jehovah our God for our good always, that he might preserve us alive as at this day.
And it shall be righteousness to us, if we observe to do all this commandment before Jehovah our God as he has commanded us.