AND the whole multitude of them rising up, led him to Pilate,
and began to accuse him, saying, We have found this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to pay tribute to Caesar; pretending that he himself is the King Messiah.
Then Pilate interrogated him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answering said to him, Thou sayest so.
Then said Pilate unto the chief priests and the multitudes, I find nothing culpable in this man.
But they were urgent, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching through all Judea, beginning from Galilee even to this place.
When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilean?
And when he knew that he came out of Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was himself at Jerusalem in those days.
Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was vastly delighted: for he had been long desirous to see him, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to see some miracle wrought by him.
And he put a variety of questions to him; but he made him no reply.
And the chief priests and the scribes stood up vehemently accusing him.
Then Herod with his guards treated him with contempt, and in derision clothed him in a splendid robe, and sent him back to Pilate.
And Pilate and Herod the same day became friends together: for they had previously been at enmity with each other.
Then Pilate, convoking the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
said unto them, Ye have brought this man to me, as one who perverteth the people: and lo! on examining him before you, I have found nothing culpable in this man, respecting the charges ye bring against him:
nor Herod neither: for I referred you to him; and, lo, nothing is done to this man, as if he deserved death.
I will therefore, after scourging, discharge him.
(Now he held it necessary to release one to them at the feast.)
Then the whole multitude set up a cry, saying, Away with this fellow, and release unto us Barabbas!
(who for a certain sedition raised in the city, and for murder, had been cast into prison.)
Again therefore Pilate called out to them, desirous to see Jesus at liberty.
But they clamoured the more, saying, Crucify, crucify him.
Then the third time he said to them, What evil hath this man done? I have found nothing deserving death in him: I will therefore, after scourging, discharge him.
But they were instant with the most clamorous vociferations, soliciting that he might be crucified. And their clamours, and those of the chief priests, bore him down.
Then Pilate decreed that their petition should be granted.
Then released he to them him who for sedition and murder had been cast into prison; but he gave up Jesus to their will.
And as they led him out, laying hold on one Simon, a Cyrenian, who was coming from the country, they laid on him the cross, to carry after Jesus.
And a great multitude of the people and of women followed him, who also beat their breasts and lamented him bitterly.
But Jesus turning to them, said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but for yourselves, and for your children.
For, behold, the days are coming, in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs which have not borne, and the breasts which never suckled.
Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us! and to the hills, Cover us!
For if they do all these things with the green wood, what will be done with the dry?
Now there were two other persons, malefactors, led out with him to be executed.
And when they came to a place called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, the one on the right hand, and the other on the left.
And Jesus said, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. Then dividing his garments, they cast the lot.
And the people stood looking on. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if this fellow is the Messiah, the elect of God.
And the soldiers also insulted him, coming and offering him vinegar,
and saying, if thou art the King of the Jews, save thyself.
And there was an inscription written over him in Greek, Roman, and Hebrew characters, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then one of the suspended malefactors blasphemed him, saying, If thou art the Messiah, save thyself and us.
But the other addressing him, rebuked him, saying, Hast thou no fear of God, when thou art under the same condemnation?
And we indeed justly, for we receive deserved punishment for the crimes we have committed: but this man hath done nothing amiss.
And he said to Jesus, Remember me, Lord, when thou comest in thy kingdom.
And Jesus said to him. Verily I say unto thee, To-day thou shalt be with me in paradise.
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.
And Jesus crying with a loud voice, said, Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit: and having said this, he expired.
And the centurion observing what had come to pass, glorified God, saying, Verily this man was a righteous person.
And all the multitudes who had come together for this spectacle, when they saw the things which were done, beating their breasts, returned.
And all his acquaintance stood afar off, and the women which followed him from Galilee, beholding these things.
And lo! a man named Joseph, being a member of the council, a good man, and a just;
(who had not given his assent to their determination and deed;) being of Arimathea, a city of the Jews: who himself also expected the coming of the kingdom of God.
He went in to Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.
And taking it down from the cross, he wrapped it in linen cloth, and laid it in a sepulchre hewn out of a rock, where none had ever yet lain.
And that was the preparation-day, and the sabbath’s twilight was approaching.
Then the women also, his attendants, who had followed him out of Galilee, observed the sepulchre, and how his corpse was laid out.
And returning, they made preparation of aromatics and unguents; and they rested the sabbath-day, according to the commandment.