The word which came to Jeremiah from Jehovah in the tenth year of Zedekiah, king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar.
For then the king of Babylon's army was besieging Jerusalem. And Jeremiah the prophet was shut in the court of the guard, which was in the king of Judah's house.
For Zedekiah, king of Judah, had shut him up, saying, Why do you prophesy and say, So says Jehovah, Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will take it.
And Zedekiah, king of Judah, shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will speak with him mouth to mouth, and will see his eyes with his eyes.
And he shall lead Zedekiah into Babylon, and there he shall be until I visit him, says Jehovah. Though you fight with the Chaldeans, you shall not succeed.
And Jeremiah said, The word of Jehovah was to me saying,
Behold, Hanameel the son of Shallum, your uncle, shall come to you, saying, Buy my field in Anathoth for yourself, for the right to redeem is yours, to buy it .
So Hanameel, my uncle's son, came to me in the court of the guard, according to the word of Jehovah, and said to me, Please buy my field in Anathoth, which is in the land of Benjamin; for the right of inheritance is yours, and the right of redemption is yours. Buy it for yourself. Then I knew that this was the word of Jehovah.
And I bought the field in Anathoth from my uncle's son, Hanameel, and weighed him the silver, seventeen shekels of silver.
And I wrote it in the document, and sealed it , and called witnesses, and weighed the silver on the scales.
So I took the document of the purchase, that which was sealed according to the law and the statutes, and the open copy.
And I gave the purchase document to Baruch the son of Neriah the son of Maaseiah, before the eyes of my uncle's son, Hanameel, and before the eyes of the witnesses who wrote in the purchase document before the eyes of all the Jews who sat in the court of the guard.
And I commanded Baruch before their eyes, saying,
So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel: Take these books, the purchase document, the one sealed, and the open book, and put them in an earthen vessel so that they may stand many days.
For so says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards will again be bought in this land.
And after I gave the document of the purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed to Jehovah, saying,
Ah, Lord Jehovah! You have made the heavens and the earth by Your great power and Your outstretched arm; not any thing is too difficult for You,
who acts with loving-kindness to thousands, and repays the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their sons after them. The great, the mighty God, Jehovah of Hosts, is His name.
He is great in counsel and mighty in work. For Your eyes are open on all the ways of the sons of men, to give to each man according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings.
For You have set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt until this day, and in Israel, and among men; and You have made a name for Yourself, as at this day.
And You have brought Your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terror.
And You have given them this land which You swore to their fathers to give to them a land flowing with milk and honey.
And they came in and possessed it, but they did not obey Your voice nor did they walk in Your law. They have not done all that You commanded them to do, so You have caused all this evil to meet them.
Behold, the siege mounds have come to the city, to capture it. And the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans who fight against it, because of the sword, and the famine, and the plague. And what You have spoken has happened. And, behold, You see it .
And You have said to me, O Lord Jehovah, Buy for yourself the field with silver, and call witnesses; for the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.
And the word of Jehovah was to Jeremiah, saying,
Behold, I am Jehovah, the God of all flesh. Is anything too difficult for Me?
So Jehovah says this: Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and he shall take it.
And the Chaldeans who fight against this city shall enter and set this city on fire, and burn it, with the houses where they offered incense on their roofs to Baal, and poured out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke Me to anger.
For the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah have only done evil in My eyes from their youth. For the sons of Israel have only provoked Me to anger with the work of their hands, declares Jehovah.
For this city has been to Me a cause of My anger and My wrath from the day that they built it even to this day, that I should remove it from My face;
because of all the evil of the sons of Israel and of the sons of Judah which they have done to provoke Me to anger, they, their kings, their rulers, their priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
And they have turned the back to Me, and not the face; though I taught them, rising up early and teaching, yet they have not listened to receive instruction.
But they set their idols in the house on which My name has been called, to defile it.
And they built the high places of Baal in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire to Molech, which I did not command them, nor did it come into My heart, that they should do this detestable thing, to cause Judah to sin.
And so now Jehovah, God of Israel, says this concerning this city, of which you say, It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by the plague;
Behold, I will gather them out of all the lands, there where I have driven them in My anger, and in My fury, and in great indignation. And I will bring them again to this place, and I will cause them to live in safety.
And they shall be My people, and I will be their God.
And I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear Me all the days, for good to them and to their sons after them.
And I will cut an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from them, to do good to them. But I will put My fear in their heart, that they shall not depart from Me.
And I will rejoice over them, to do good to them; and I will truly plant them in this land with all My heart and with all My soul.
For so says Jehovah: As I have brought this great evil on this people, so I will bring on them all the good that I am speaking to them.
And fields will be bought in this land, of which you say, It is a desolation, without man or beast; it has been given into the hand of the Chaldeans.
Men shall buy fields for silver, and write in a document, and seal it , and call witnesses in the land of Benjamin, and in the places around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the mountains, and in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the Negeb. For I will cause their captivity to return, says Jehovah.