And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judaea beyond Jordan;
And great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.   ¶
The Pharisees also came to him, tempting him, and saying to him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?
And he answered and said to them, Have you not read, that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female,
And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall join to his wife: and they two shall be one flesh?
Why they are no more two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder.
They say to him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorce, and to put her away?
He says to them, Moses because of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so.
And I say to you, Whoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, commits adultery: and whoever marries her which is put away does commit adultery.   ¶
His disciples say to him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry.
But he said to them, All men cannot receive this saying, save they to whom it is given.
For there are some eunuchs, which were so born from their mother’s womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven’s sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.   ¶
Then were there brought to him little children, that he should put his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come to me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven.
And he laid his hands on them, and departed there.   ¶
And, behold, one came and said to him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?
And he said to him, Why call you me good? there is none good but one, that is, God: but if you will enter into life, keep the commandments.
He says to him, Which? Jesus said, You shall do no murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness,
Honor your father and your mother: and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
The young man says to him, All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet?
Jesus said to him, If you will be perfect, go and sell that you have, and give to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me.
But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions.   ¶
Then said Jesus to his disciples, Truly I say to you, That a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven.
And again I say to you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
When his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?
But Jesus beheld them, and said to them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.   ¶
Then answered Peter and said to him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed you; what shall we have therefore?
And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, That you which have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, you also shall sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And every one that has forsaken houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name’s sake, shall receive an hundred times, and shall inherit everlasting life.
But many that are first shall be last; and the last shall be first.