A Psalm of David. Of the sons of Jonadab and the former captives.  In you, O Lord, I have hoped; do not let me be brought to ruin forever.
Free me by your justice, and rescue me. Incline your ear to me, and save me.
Be a God of protection and a place of strength for me, so that you may accomplish my salvation. For you are my firmament and my refuge.
Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the sinner, and from the hand of the unjust and those who act against the law.
For you, O Lord, are my patience: my hope from my youth, O Lord.
In you, I have been confirmed from conception. From my mother’s womb, you are my protector. In you, I will sing forever.
I have become to many as if I were a portent, but you are a strong helper.
Let my mouth be filled with praise, so that I may sing your glory, your greatness all day long.
Do not cast me off in the time of old age. Do not abandon me when my strength will fail.
For my enemies have spoken against me. And those who watched for my soul have taken counsel as one,
saying: “God has abandoned him. Pursue and overtake him. For there is no one to rescue him.”
O God, do not be far from me. O my God, provide for my assistance.
May they be confounded, and may they fail, who drag down my soul. Let them be covered with confusion and shame, who seek evils for me.
But I will always have hope. And I will add more to all your praise.
My mouth will announce your justice, your salvation all day long. For I have not known letters.
I will enter into the powers of the Lord. I will be mindful of your justice alone, O Lord.
You have taught me from my youth, O God. And so I will declare your wonders continuously,
even in old age and with grey hairs. Do not abandon me, O God, while I announce your arm to every future generation: your power
and your justice, O God, even to the highest great things that you have done. O God, who is like you?
How great is the tribulation that you have revealed to me: very great and evil. And so, turning back, you have brought me to life, and you have led me back again from the abyss of the earth.
You have multiplied your magnificence. And so, turning back to me, you have consoled me.
Therefore, I will confess your truth to you, with the instruments of the Psalter. O God, I will sing psalms to you with stringed instruments, O Holy One of Israel.
My lips will exult, when I sing to you, and also my soul, which you have redeemed.
And even my tongue will meditate on your justice all day long, when those who seek evils for me have been confounded and set in awe.