And He entered into a boat, and passed over, and came to His own city.
And behold, they brought to Him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Child, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven you.
And lo, some of the scribes said within themselves, This one blasphemes.
And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts?
For which is easier? To say, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Arise and walk!
But so that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins, then He said to the paralytic, Arise, take up your bed and go to your house.
And he arose and departed to his house.
But when the crowds saw, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such authority to men.
And as Jesus passed on from there, He saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax-office. And He said to him, Follow Me! And he arose and followed Him.
And it happened as Jesus reclined in the house, behold, many tax-collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Him and His disciples.
And when the Pharisees saw, they said to His disciples, Why does your master eat with tax-collectors and sinners?
But when Jesus heard, He said to them, The ones who are whole do not need a physician, but the ones who are sick.
But go and learn what this is, I will have mercy and not sacrifice. For I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Then the disciples of John came to Him saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but Your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, Can the sons of the bridechamber mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then they shall fast.
No one puts a piece of new cloth onto an old garment; for that which is put in to fill it up takes from the garment, and the tear is made worse.
Nor do men put new wine into old wineskins; else the wineskins burst, and the wine runs out, and the wineskins perish. But they put new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved together.
While He spoke these things to them, behold, a certain ruler came and worshiped Him, saying, My daughter has just now died. But come and lay Your hand on her and she will live.
And Jesus arose and followed him. And so did His disciples.
And behold, a woman, who had a flow of blood for twelve years, came up behind Him and touched the hem of His garment.
For she said within herself, If only I shall touch His robe, I will be whole.
But turning and seeing her, Jesus said, Daughter, be comforted; your faith has saved you. And the woman was saved from that hour.
And when Jesus came into the ruler's house and saw the minstrels and the people making a noise,
He said to them, Go back, for the little girl is not dead, but sleeps. And they laughed Him to scorn.
But when the people were put out, He went in and took her by the hand, and the little girl arose.
And this report went out into all that land.
And when Jesus passed on from there, two blind ones followed Him, crying and saying, Son of David, have mercy on us.
And when He had come into the house, the blind men came to Him. And Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said to Him, Yes, Lord.
Then He touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith let it be to you.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus strictly charged them, saying, See, let no one know.
But going out, they made Him known in all that land.
As they went out, behold, they brought to Him a dumb man, who had been demon-possessed.
And when the demon had been cast out, the dumb one spoke. And multitudes marveled, saying, Never was it seen like this in Israel!
But the Pharisees said, He throws out demons by the ruler of the demons.
And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people.
But seeing the crowds, He was moved with compassion on them, because they were tired and scattered like sheep having no shepherd.
Then He said to His disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few.
Therefore pray to the Lord of the harvest that He will send out laborers into His harvest.