Every man who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been begotten from God, and every man who loves him who begot, also loves him who has been begotten from him.
By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and keep his commandments.
For this is the love of God, that we may keep his commandments. And his commandments are not burdensome.
Because everything that has been begotten from God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that overcomes the world, our faith.
And who is he who overcomes the world, if not he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is he who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ, not by the water only, but by the water and the blood. And it is the Spirit that testifies, because the Spirit is truth.
Because those who testify are three:
the Spirit, and the water, and the blood. And the three are in one.
If we accept the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater. Because this is the testimony of God that he has testified about his Son.
He who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. He who does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has testified about his Son.
And this is the testimony, that God gave eternal life to us, and this life is in his Son.
He who has the Son has the life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
I wrote these things to you, those who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe in the name of the Son of God.
And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that, if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us.
And if we know that he hears us, whatever we may ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked from him.
If any man may see his brother sinning a sin not toward death, he will ask, and he will give life to him, to those not sinning toward death. There is sin toward death. I do not say that he should make request about that.
All unrighteousness is sin. And there is sin not toward death.
We know that every man who has been begotten from God does not sin, but he who was begotten from God keeps himself, and the evil does not touch him.
We know that we are of God, and the whole world is set in the evil.
And we know that the Son of God comes, and has given us understanding, so that we may know the true. And we are in the true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and the eternal life.
Little children, guard yourselves from the idols. Truly.