The beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
As it has been written by the prophet Isaiah: “Behold, I send my Angel before your face, who shall prepare your way before you.
The voice of one crying out in the desert: Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight his paths.”
John was in the desert, baptizing and preaching a baptism of repentance, as a remission of sins.
And there went out to him all the region of Judea and all those of Jerusalem, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
And John was clothed with camel’s hair and with a leather belt around his waist. And he ate locusts and wild honey.
And he preached, saying: “One stronger than me comes after me. I am not worthy to reach down and loosen the laces of his shoes.
I have baptized you with water. Yet truly, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.”
And it happened that, in those days, Jesus arrived from Nazareth of Galilee. And he was baptized by John in the Jordan.
And immediately, upon ascending from the water, he saw the heavens opened and the Spirit, like a dove, descending, and remaining with him.
And there was a voice from heaven: “You are my beloved Son; in you I am well pleased.”
And immediately the Spirit prompted him into the desert.
And he was in the desert for forty days and forty nights. And he was tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the Angels ministered to him.
Then, after John was handed over, Jesus went into Galilee, preaching the Gospel of the kingdom of God,
and saying: “For the time has been fulfilled and the kingdom of God has drawn near. Repent and believe in the Gospel.”
And passing by the shore of the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and his brother Andrew, casting nets into the sea, for they were fishermen.
And Jesus said to them, “Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.”
And at once abandoning their nets, they followed him.
And continuing on a little ways from there, he saw James of Zebedee and his brother John, and they were mending their nets in a boat.
And immediately he called them. And leaving behind their father Zebedee in the boat with his hired hands, they followed him.
And they entered into Capernaum. And entering into the synagogue promptly on the Sabbaths, he taught them.
And they were astonished over his doctrine. For he was teaching them as one who has authority, and not like the scribes.
And in their synagogue, there was a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,
saying: “What are we to you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God.”
And Jesus admonished him, saying, “Be silent, and depart from the man.”
And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, departed from him.
And they were all so amazed that they inquired among themselves, saying: “What is this? And what is this new doctrine? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.”
And his fame went out quickly, throughout the entire region of Galilee.
And soon after departing from the synagogue, they went into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
But the mother-in-law of Simon lay ill with a fever. And at once they told him about her.
And drawing near to her, he raised her up, taking her by the hand. And immediately the fever left her, and she ministered to them.
Then, when evening arrived, after the sun had set, they brought to him all who had maladies and those who had demons.
And the entire city was gathered together at the door.
And he healed many who were troubled with various illnesses. And he cast out many demons, but he would not permit them to speak, because they knew him.
And rising up very early, departing, he went out to a deserted place, and there he prayed.
And Simon, and those who were with him, followed after him.
And when they had found him, they said to him, “For everyone is seeking you.”
And he said to them: “Let us go into the neighboring towns and cities, so that I may preach there also. Indeed, it was for this reason that I came.”
And he was preaching in their synagogues and throughout all of Galilee, and casting out demons.
And a leper came to him, begging him. And kneeling down, he said to him, “If you are willing, you are able to cleanse me.”
Then Jesus, taking pity on him, reached out his hand. And touching him, he said to him: “I am willing. Be cleansed.”
And after he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed.
And he admonished him, and he promptly sent him away.
And he said to him: “See to it that you tell no one. But go and show yourself to the high priest, and offer for your cleansing that which Moses instructed, as a testimony for them.”
But having departed, he began to preach and to disseminate the word, so that he was no longer able to openly enter a city, but had to remain outside, in deserted places. And they were gathered to him from every direction.