And passing by, He saw a man who was blind from birth.
And His disciples asked Him, saying, Master, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither has this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God might be revealed in him.
I must work the works of Him who sent Me, while it is day. Night comes when no man can work.
As long as I am in the world, I am the Light of the world.
And when He had spoken these things, He spat on the ground and made clay from the spittle. And He anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay.
And He said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which translated is Sent). Therefore he went and washed and came seeing.
Then the neighbors and those who had seen him before, that he was blind, said, Is this not he who was sitting and begging?
Some said, This is he. Others said, He is like him. He said, I am he.
Then they said to him, How were your eyes opened?
He answered and said, A man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. And going and washing, I received sight.
Then they said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know.
They brought him who once was blind to the Pharisees.
And it was a sabbath when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said to them, He put clay upon my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
Therefore some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because he does not keep the sabbath. Others said, How can a man, a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them.
They said to the blind man again, What do you say about him, for he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet.
But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him having received sight.
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? How then does he now see?
His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind.
But by what means he now sees, we do not know. Or who has opened his eyes, we do not know. He is of age, ask him. He will speak for himself.
His parents spoke these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed that He was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
Therefore his parents said, He is of age, ask him.
Then a second time they called the man who was blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner.
He answered and said, Whether He is a sinner, I do not know; one thing I do know, that being blind, now I see.
Then they said to him again, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?
He answered them, I have told you already, and you did not hear. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also desire to be His disciples?
Then they reviled him and said, You are his disciple, but we are Moses' disciples.
We know that God spoke to Moses, but we do not know from where this man is.
The man answered and said to them, Why, this is a marvelous thing, that you do not know from where He is, and He has opened my eyes.
But we know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, He hears him.
From everlasting it was not heard that anyone opened the eyes of one who was born blind.
If this One were not of God, He could do nothing.
They answered and said to him, You were altogether born in sins, and do you teach us? And they cast him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and finding him, He said to him, Do you believe on the Son of God?
And he answered and said, Who is He, Lord, that I might believe on Him?
And Jesus said to him, You have both seen Him, and it is He who is speaking with you.
And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped Him.
And Jesus said, I have come into this world for judgment, that they who do not see might see, and that they who see might be made blind.
And those of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these words, and said to Him, Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no sin. But now you say, We see. Therefore your sin remains.