Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,
to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, as without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day,
longing to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that it dwelleth in thee also.
For which cause I remind thee to stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the laying on of my hands;
for God gave us not the spirit of cowardice, but of power, and of love, and of admonition.
Be not then ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner; but endure hardship with me for the gospel through the power of God,
who saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and the grace which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began,
but is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and incorruption to light through the gospel,
for which I was appointed a herald, and an apostle, and a teacher of the gentiles.
For which cause I suffer also these things. But I am not ashamed; for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which he hath committed to me unto that day.
Hold the pattern of sound words, which thou heardest from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus;
the good trust committed to thee keep through the Holy Spirit which dwelleth in us.
Thou knowest this, that all those in Asia turned away from me, of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
The Lord give mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain; but on the contrary,
when he arrived at Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.
The Lord grant to him that he may find mercy from the Lord in that day: and what services he rendered me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.