Then Joseph could not restrain himself before all those who stood before him, and he cried out, Cause every man to go out from me. And no man stood with him while Joseph made himself known to his brothers.
And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians heard, and the house of Pharaoh heard.
And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph, does my father yet live? And his brothers could not answer him, for they were troubled at his presence.
And Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near, and he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.
And now be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life.
For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years, in which there shall be neither plowing nor harvest.
And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on the earth, and to save you alive by a great deliverance.
So now it was not you that sent me here, but God, and he has made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and ruler over all the land of Egypt.
Hasten ye, and go up to my father, and say to him, Thus says thy son Joseph: God has made me lord of all Egypt. Come down to me, delay not.
And thou shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shall be near to me, thou, and thy sons, and thy sons' sons, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou have.
And there will I nourish thee, for there are yet five years of famine, lest thou come to poverty, thou, and thy household, and all that thou have.
And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaks to you.
And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen. And ye shall hasten and bring down my father here.
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept, and Benjamin wept upon his neck.
And he kissed all his brothers, and wept upon them. And after that his brothers talked with him.
And the report of it was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brothers have come. And it pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Say to thy brothers, This do ye: Load your beasts, and go, get you to the land of Canaan,
and take your father and your households, and come to me. And I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land.
Now thou are commanded, this do ye: Take wagons for you out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.
Also do not regard your stuff, for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours.
And the sons of Israel did so. And Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way.
He gave to all of them, each man, changes of raiment, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment.
And he sent to his father according to this manner: ten donkeys laden with the good things of Egypt, and ten she-donkeys laden with grain and bread and provision for his father by the way.
So he sent his brothers away, and they departed. And he said to them, See that ye not fall out by the way.
And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan to Jacob their father.
And they told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt. And his heart fainted, for he did not believe them.
And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them. And when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived.
And Israel said, It is enough, Joseph my son is yet alive. I will go and see him before I die.