My son, forget not my teaching, And let thy heart observe my precepts!
For length of days, and years of life, And peace shall they multiply to thee.
Let not kindness and truth forsake thee; Bind them around thy neck, Write them upon the tablet of thy heart:
Then shalt thou find favor and good success In the sight of God and man.
Trust in the LORD with all thy heart, And lean not on thine own understanding;
In all thy ways acknowledge him, And he will make thy paths plain.
Be not wise in thine own eyes; Fear the LORD, and depart from evil.
It shall be health to thy muscles, And moisture to thy bones.
Honor the LORD with thy substance, And with the first-fruits of all thy increase;
So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, And thy vats overflow with new wine.
My son, despise not the correction of the LORD, Nor be impatient under his chastisement!
For whom the LORD loveth he chasteneth, Even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.
Happy the man who findeth wisdom; Yea, the man who getteth understanding!
For the profit thereof is greater than that of silver, And the gain thereof than that of fine gold.
More precious is she than pearls, And none of thy jewels is to be compared with her.
Length of days is in her right hand; In her left hand are riches and honor.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, And all her paths are peace.
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold of her, And happy is every one who hath her in his grasp.
The LORD by wisdom founded the earth; By understanding he framed the heavens.
By his knowledge the deep waters were cleft, And the clouds drop down the dew.
My son, let them not depart from thine eyes; Keep sound wisdom and discretion!
For they shall be life to thy soul, And grace to thy neck.
Then shalt thou go on thy way securely, And thy foot shall not stumble;
When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid, Yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.
Be not thou afraid of sudden alarm, Nor of the storm that is for the wicked, when it cometh;
For the LORD shall be thy confidence; Yea, he will keep thy foot from being taken.
Withhold not kindness from those who need it, When it is in the power of thy hand to do it.
Say not to thy neighbor, "Go, and come again, And to-morrow I will give to thee," when thou hast it by thee.
Devise not evil against thy neighbor, While he dwelleth securely by thee.
Contend not with a man without cause, When he hath done thee no harm.
Envy not the oppressor, And choose none of his ways.
For the perverse man is the abomination of the LORD, But he is in friendship with the upright.
The curse of the LORD is upon the house of the wicked, But he blesseth the dwelling of the righteous.
Surely the scorners he treadeth scornfully, But giveth favor to the lowly.
The wise shall obtain honor, But fools shall bear off shame.