And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
This is the statute of the law which Jehovah has commanded, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel, that they bring thee a red heifer without spot, in which is no blemish, and upon which a yoke never came.
And ye shall give her to Eleazar the priest, and he shall bring her forth outside the camp, and she shall be killed before his face.
And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle her blood toward the front of the tent of meeting seven times.
And the heifer shall be burned in his sight: her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, he shall burn.
And the priest shall take cedar-wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water. And afterward he shall come into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the evening.
And he who burned her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the evening.
And a man who is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up outside the camp in a clean place. And it shall be kept for the congregation of the sons of Israel for a water for impurity. It is a sin offering.
And he who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. And it shall be to the sons of Israel, and to the stranger who sojourns among them, for a statute forever.
He who touches the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days.
The same shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean, but if he does not purify himself the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.
Whoever touches a dead person, the body of a man who has died, and does not purify himself, defiles the tabernacle of Jehovah. And that soul shall be cut off from Israel, because the water for impurity was not sprinkled upon him. He shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet upon him.
This is the law when a man dies in a tent: everyone who comes into the tent, and everyone who is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
And every open vessel, which has no covering bound upon it, is unclean.
And whoever in the open field touches a man who is slain with a sword, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
And for the unclean they shall take of the ashes of the burning of the sin offering, and running water shall be put with that in a vessel.
And a clean man shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the souls who were there, and upon him who touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead, or the grave.
And the clean man shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day. And on the seventh day he shall purify him. And he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at evening.
But the man who shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, that soul shall be cut off from the midst of the assembly, because he has defiled the sanctuary of Jehovah. The water for impurity has not been sprinkled upon him; he is unclean.
And it shall be a perpetual statute to them. And he who sprinkles the water for impurity shall wash his clothes, and he who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until evening.
And whatever the unclean man touches shall be unclean, and the soul who touches it shall be unclean until evening.