Woe to those plotting wickedness and preparing evil on their beds! In the light of the morning they practice it, because it is in the power of their hand.
And they covet and seize fields and houses, and carry them away. And they oppress a man and his household, even a man and his inheritance.
So Jehovah says this: Behold, I am plotting an evil against this family, from which you shall not remove your necks; nor shall you go exalted, for it is an evil time.
In that day one shall lift up a parable against you and lament a lament of lamenting. He says, We shall be completely laid waste. He has exchanged the share of my people. How He has removed it for me! To the turncoat He has divided the fields.
So there shall not be for you one casting a line by lot in the congregation of Jehovah.
Do not drop words as they drop! They shall not drop words about these; they shall not draw back reproaches.
House of Jacob, it is said, The Spirit of Jehovah is limited, if these are His doings. Do not My words do good with the one who walks upright?
Even yesterday My people have risen up like an enemy. You strip off an inner robe from before an outer garment, from those who pass by confidently, those returning from war.
You have thrown the wives of My people out from the house of her delight; you have taken away My majesty forever from her children.
Rise up and go! For because of destroying uncleanness, even a grievous destruction, this is not your rest.
If a man walks with wind, and he lies in deceit, saying, I will drop words to you for wine and for fermented drink, he shall even be a dropper of words for this people.
I will surely gather all of you, Jacob; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel. I will set him together like the sheep of Bozrah, like a flock in the midst of its fold. They shall be in commotion because of men.
He breaking up has come before them; they have broken up and have passed through the gate and have gone out of it. And their king shall pass before them, and Jehovah at their head.