I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the assembly which is at Cenchrea:
That ye receive her in יהוה, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself also.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Messiah Yahushua:
Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the assemblies of the Gentiles.
Likewise greet the assembly that is in their house. Salute my wellbeloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia unto the Messiah.
Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us.
Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellowprisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in the Messiah before me.
Greet Amplias my beloved in יהוה.
Salute Urbane, our helper in the Messiah, and Stachys my beloved.
Salute Apelles approved in the Messiah. Salute them which are of Aristobulus' household.
Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greet them that be of the household of Narcissus, which are in יהוה.
Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in יהוה. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in יהוה.
Salute Rufus chosen in יהוה, and his mother and mine.
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren which are with them.
Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints which are with them.
Salute one another with an holy kiss. The Assemblies of the Messiah salute you.
Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid them.
For they that are such serve not our Saviour Yahushua the Messiah, but their own belly; and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple.
For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil.
And the Elohim of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The favour of our Saviour Yahushua the Messiah be with you.
Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you.
I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in יהוה.
Gaius mine host, and of the whole assembly, saluteth you. Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.
The favour of our Saviour Yahushua the Messiah be with you all.
Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my evangel, and the preaching of Yahushua the Messiah, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began,
But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting Elohim, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith:
To יהוה only wise, be glory through Yahushua the Messiah for ever. AlleluYAH...