In You, O LORD, I put my trust; let me never be put to shame.
Deliver me in Your righteousness, and cause me to escape; bow down Your ear to me, and save me.
Be a rock of refuge for me, to which I may always go; You have commanded to save me; for You are my Rock and my Fortress.
Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
For You are my hope, O Lord God, my trust from my youth.
On You I have rested from the womb; You are He who took me out of my mother's bowels; my praise always shall be of You.
I am like a wonder to many, but You are my strong tower.
Let my mouth be filled with Your praise, with Your honor all the day.
Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength fails.
For my enemies speak against me; and those who watch for my soul plot together,
saying, God has forsaken him; pursue and take him, for there is none to deliver him.
O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste for my help.
Let them be ashamed; let those who are enemies of my soul be consumed; let them be covered with reproach and dishonor, those who seek my hurt.
But I will hope without ceasing, and I will add more in all Your praise.
My mouth shall show forth Your righteousness and Your salvation all the day; for I do not know how many they are.
I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD; I will speak of Your righteousness, of Yours alone.
O God, You have taught me from my youth; and before now I have declared Your wonderful works.
And now when I am old and gray-headed, O God, do not leave me; until I have declared Your strength to this generation, and Your power to everyone who is to come.
And Your righteousness, O God, is very high, who have done great things. O God, who is like You,
who has shown me great and evil distresses; You will turn me; You will make me live. You will turn me from the depths of the earth, You will bring me up.
You will increase my greatness and surround and comfort me on every side.
I will also praise You with a harp. O my God, I will sing Your truth; to You I will sing with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel.
My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing to You, and my soul, which You have redeemed.
My tongue also shall muse on Your righteousness all the day long; for those who seek my evil have turned pale, they are brought to shame.