THEREFORE thou art inexcusable, O man, even every one that judgeth: for in the very thing wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest art living in the practices of the same things.
But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth, against those who practise such things.
For thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest those who do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?
Or despisest thou the riches of his kindness and patience and long-suffering, ignorant that this goodness of God is leading thee to repentance?
But after thy obdurate and impenitent heart treasurest up for thyself wrath at the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God,
who will recompense to every man according to his works;
to those who, in the patient practice of good works, seek glory and honour and immortality―eternal life.
But to those who are of a contentious spirit, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation, and wrath;
tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that doeth wickedness, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek.
But glory and honour and peace be to every man who doeth that which is good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek:
for there is no acceptance of persons with God.
For as many as have sinned without the law, shall perish also without the law: and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law;
for the hearers of the law are not righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be counted righteous;
(for when the Gentiles, who have not the law naturally, do the things of the law, these, though not having the law, are a law unto themselves:
which exhibit the practice of the law written on their hearts, their conscience also bearing its testimony, and their mutual reasonings at intervals bringing accusations or forming excuses;)
in the day when God shall judge the hidden things of men, according to my gospel by Jesus Christ.
Lo! thou art named a Jew, and restest on the law, and boastest in God,
and knowest the will of God, and bringest to the test the things that are different, being instructed out of the law;
and hast confidence that thou thyself art a leader of the blind, a light of those who are in darkness,
an instructor of the uninformed, a teacher of babes, holding the form of knowledge and of truth in the law.
Thou therefore who teachest another, dost thou not teach thyself? thou that proclaimest aloud that a man should not steal, dost thou steal?
thou that sayest, Do not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that holdest idols in abomination, dost thou commit sacrilege?
thou who gloriest in the law, dishonourest thou God by the transgression of the law?
for the name of God is blasphemed through you among the heathen, as it is written.
For circumcision indeed is advantageous, if thou practise the law: but if thou art a transgressor of the law, thy circumcision becomes uncircumcision,
If then the uncircumcision observe the righteous judgments of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be accounted for circumcision?
And the uncircumcision by nature which fulfilleth the law shall condemn thee, who through the letter and circumcision art a transgressor of the law.
For not he who is outwardly such, is the Jew; neither is that which is outward in the flesh, circumcision.
But he is a Jew who is such inwardly; and circumcision is of the heart, in spirit, not in letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God.