In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea,
and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of Heaven is at hand.
For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying, "The voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make His path straight."
And the same John had his clothing of camel's hair and a leather girdle about his loins. And his food was locusts and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem and all Judea went out to him, and all the region round about Jordan.
And they were baptized by him in Jordan, confessing their sins.
But seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said to them, O generation of vipers, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance;
and do not think to say within yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones.
And now also, the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Therefore every tree which does not bring forth good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
I indeed baptize you with water to repentance. But He who comes after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire;
whose fan is in His hand, and He will cleanse His floor and gather His wheat into the storehouse; but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
Then Jesus came from Galilee to Jordan, to John, to be baptized by him.
But John restrained Him, saying, I have need to be baptized by You, and do You come to me?
And answering Jesus said to him, Allow it now, for it is becoming to us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allowed Him.
And Jesus, when He had been baptized, went up immediately out of the water. And lo, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting upon Him.
And lo, a voice from Heaven, saying, This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.