All wisdom is from the Lord God, and has always been with him, and is before all time.
Who has numbered the sand of the sea, and the drops of the rain, and the days of the world? Who has measured the height of heaven, and the breadth of the earth, and the depth of the abyss?
Who has examined the wisdom of God, which precedes all things?
Wisdom was created before all things, and the understanding of prudence is before all time.
The Word of God on high is the source of wisdom, whose steps are eternal commandments.
To whom has the root of wisdom been revealed, and who has recognized her astuteness?
To whom has the discipline of wisdom been revealed and made manifest? And who has understood the multiplicity of her steps?
The most high omnipotent Creator is One, and he is the mighty King, and he is exceedingly to be feared, sitting upon his throne, and he is the sovereign God.
He created wisdom through the Holy Spirit, and he saw her, and numbered her, and measured her.
And he poured her over all his works, and over all flesh, to the extent of his favor, and he has offered her to those who love him.
The fear of the Lord is glory, and honor, and rejoicing, and a crown of exultation.
The fear of the Lord will delight the heart, and will give joy and gladness and length of days.
It will be well, in the very end, for him who fears the Lord, and on the day that he passes away, he will be blessed.
The love of God is honorable wisdom.
And those to whom she will appear for their consideration love her because of what they see and know of her great works.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and was created with the faithful in the womb, and walks with elect women, and is known by the just and the faithful.
The fear of the Lord is the sanctity of knowledge.
Sanctity will guard and justify the heart, and will bestow happiness and joy.
It will be well with him who fears the Lord, and at the consummation of his days, he will be blessed.
To fear God is the fullness of wisdom, and it is a fullness from its fruits.
She will fill her entire house from her offspring, and storehouses from her treasures.
The fear of the Lord is the crown of wisdom, the completion of peace, and the fruit of salvation.
And the fear of the Lord has seen and numbered wisdom; but both are gifts of God.
Wisdom will distribute knowledge and an understanding of prudence; and she lifts up the glory of those who hold to her.
The root of wisdom is to fear the Lord, and its branches are long-lived.
In the treasures of wisdom is understanding and the sanctity of knowledge. But to sinners, wisdom is an abomination.
The fear of the Lord expels sin.
For he who is without fear is not able to be justified. For the disposition of his spirit is his undoing.
Those who are patient will suffer for a brief time, and afterwards, happiness will return.
A noble mind will hide his words for a brief time, and then the lips of many will declare his understanding.
Among the treasures of wisdom is the outward sign of discipline.
But to those who sin, the worship of God is an abomination.
Son, if you desire wisdom, observe justice, and then God will offer her to you.
For the fear of the Lord is wisdom and discipline.
And what pleases him is faith and meekness. And so shall he complete his treasures.
You should not be incredulous to the fear of the Lord. And you should not draw close to him with a duplicitous heart.
You should not be a hypocrite in the sight of men. And you should not scandalize with your lips.
Attend to these things, otherwise you may fall and bring dishonor to your soul.
And then God may uncover your secrets, and he may cast you down forcefully in the midst of the congregation.
For you drew near to the Lord wickedly, and your heart was filled with deceit and falseness.