And it came to pass, after this, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them,—and David took the bridle of the metropolis, out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he smote Moab, and measured them with the line casting, them down to the ground, and be measured with two lines to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive,—so the Moabites became David’s, as servants, bringing gifts.
And David smote Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah,—when he went to lay his hand on the River Euphrates.
And David captured from him, a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen,—and David destroyed all the chariots, but reserved of them, a hundred chariots.
And, when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians, twenty-two thousand men.
Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became David’s, as servants bringing gifts,—and so Yahweh gave victory unto David, whithersoever he went.
And David took the shields of gold which had come to the servants of Hadadezer,—and brought them to Jerusalem;
also, from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, did King David take bronze, exceeding much.
And, when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the forces of Hadadezer,
then Tou sent Hadoram his son unto King David, to ask after his welfare, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had smitten him, for Hadadezer had had wars with Tou,—and, in his hand, were vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of bronze.
Them also, did King David hallow unto Yahweh,—with the silver and the gold which he had hallowed from all the nations which he had subdued:
from Syria, and from Moab, and from the sons of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek,—and from the spoil of Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
And David made a name, when he returned from his smiting of the Syrians in the valley of salt,—eighteen thousand.
And he put, in Edom, garrisons, throughout all Edom, put be garrisons, and so it was that all Edom became servants unto David,—and Yahweh gave victory unto David, whithersoever he went.
And David reigned over all Israel,—and so it was that David used to execute justice and righteousness for all his people;
and, Joab, son of Zeruiah, was over the army,—and, Jehoshaphat, son of Ahilud, was remembrancer.
And, Zadok, son of Ahitub, and Abimelech, son of Abiathar, were priests,—and, Seraiah, was scribe;
and, Benaiah, son of Jehoiadah, was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites,—and, the sons of David, became, chief rulers.