And you shall love Jehovah your God, and keep His charge, and His statutes and His judgments, and His commandments all the days.
And you know today, for I do not speak with your sons who have not known, and who have not seen the chastisement of Jehovah your God, His greatness, His mighty hand, and His stretched out arm,
and His signs, and His works which He did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and to all his land;
and that which He has done to the army of Egypt, to its horses, and to its chariots, when He caused the waters of the Sea of Reeds to flow over them as they chased them. And Jehovah destroyed them to this day;
and that which He has done to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place;
and that which He has done to Dathan, and to Abiram, sons of Eliab, Reuben's son, when the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them and their houses and their tents and the living substance living substance at their feet, in the midst of all Israel.
But your eyes see all the great work of Jehovah which He has done.
And you shall keep all the commandments which I am commanding you today, so that you shall be strong, and shall go in and possess the land to which you are crossing over, to possess it;
and so that you may prolong your days in the land which Jehovah has sworn to your fathers, to give to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey.
For the land to which you are going, to possess it, is not as the land of Egypt, from where you came, where you sowed your seed and watered it with your foot, as a garden of herbs.
But the land which you are entering to possess it is a land of hills and valleys, drinking water from the rain of the heavens;
a land which Jehovah your God cares for; the eyes of Jehovah your God are constantly on it from the beginning of the year to the end of the year.
And it shall be, if you carefully listen to My commands which I command you today, to love Jehovah your God, and to serve Him with all your heart, and with all your soul,
that I will give the rain of your land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, and your wine, and your oil.
And I will give grass in your fields for your livestock; and you shall eat and be satisfied.
Take heed to yourselves, that your heart not be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods, and bow down to them;
and the anger of Jehovah glow against you, and He shut up the heavens, and there be no rain, and the ground not give her increase, and you perish quickly from off the good land which Jehovah is giving to you.
And you shall lay these words up in your hearts, and in your souls, and shall bind them for a sign on your hand. And they shall be for frontlets between your eyes.
And you shall teach them to your sons by speaking of them as you sit in your house, and as you go in the way, and as you lie down, and as you rise up.
And you shall write them on the side posts of your house, and on your gates,
that your days and the days of your sons may be multiplied, and the days of your sons in the land which Jehovah has sworn to your fathers, to give to them, as the days of the heavens over the earth.
For if you will carefully keep this command which I am commanding you, to do it, to love Jehovah your God, to walk in all His ways, and to cleave to Him,
then Jehovah shall expel all these nations from before you, and you shall possess nations greater and mightier than you.
Every place where the sole of your foot treads shall be yours, from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the Euphrates River even to the furthest sea shall be your border.
No man shall stand before you. Jehovah your God shall put your dread and your fear on the face of all the land on which you tread, as He has spoken to you.
Behold! I set before you today a blessing and a curse:
a blessing if you hear the commandments of Jehovah your God which I command you today;
and a curse if you will not hear the commandments of Jehovah your God, but will turn aside out of the way which I command you today, to go after other gods which you have not known.
And it shall be when Jehovah your God shall bring you into the land to which you go to possess it, that you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim, and the curse on Mount Ebal.
Are they not beyond the Jordan, behind the way of the sunset, in the land of the Canaanites that live in the Arabah, opposite to Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh?
For you are to cross over the Jordan to go in to possess the land which Jehovah your God is giving to you; and you shall possess it and live in it.
And take heed to do all the statutes and the ordinances which I am setting before you today.