Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. And everyone who loves Him who begets also loves him who has been born of Him.
By this we know that we love the children of God, whenever we love God and keep His commandments.
For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments, and His commandments are not burdensome.
For everything that has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that overcomes the world, our faith.
Who is he who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
This is He who came through water and blood, Jesus Christ, not by water only, but by the water and blood. And the Spirit is He who bears witness, because the Spirit is the truth.
For there are three that bear record in Heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one.
And there are three that bear witness in the earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood; and the three are to the one.
If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God which He has testified about His Son.
He who believes on the Son of God has the witness in himself. He who does not believe God has made Him a liar, because he does not believe the record that God gave of His Son.
And this is the record, that God has given to us everlasting life, and this life is in His Son.
He who has the Son has life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have life.
I have written these things to you who believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have everlasting life, and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God.
And this is the confidence that we have toward Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
And if we know that He hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of Him.
If anyone sees his brother sin a sin not to death, he shall ask, and He shall give him life for those that do not sin to death. There is a sin to death, I do not say that he shall pray for it.
All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not to death.
We know that everyone who has been born of God does not continue in sin, but the one born of God guards himself, and the evil one does not touch him.
We know that we are of God, and all the world lies in evil.
And we know that the Son of God has come, and He has given us an understanding so that we may know Him who is true. And we are in Him that is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and the everlasting life.
Little children, guard yourselves from idols. Amen.