O God whom I praise, keep not silence; for their wicked mouths they have opened against me, they speak to me with tongues that are false,

they beset me with words of hatred, and fight without cause against me.
My love they requite with hostility, while for them I lift up my prayer.
Evil for good they reward me, and hatred for my love.
“Set over him one who is godless,” they say, “an opponent at his right hand.
From his trial let him come forth guilty, may his prayer be counted as sin.
Grant that his days may be few, that his office be seized by another.
Grant that his children be fatherless, and that his wife be a widow.
Up and down may his children go begging, expelled from their desolate home.
May all that he owns be seized by the creditor may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil.
May none extend to him kindness, or pity his fatherless children.
His descendants be doomed to destruction! Blotted out be his name in one generation!
May his father’s guilt be remembered, and his mother’s sin not blotted out:
on record always before the Lord, and his memory root from the earth;
for he gave no thought to show kindness, but pursued the poor and the needy, drove the downhearted to death.
May the curses he loved light upon him, may the blessings he loathed be afar.
Like a garment he clothed him with curses; may they pierce to his inwards like water, and cling to his bones like oil.
Let them be like the robe he wraps round him, like the belt he wears every day.”
Be this the reward of my adversaries, of those who speak evil against me.
But you, Lord my God, be true to your name, deal kindly with me; in your gracious kindness save me.
For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.
I am gone like a lengthening shadow, I am shaken off like a locust.
My knees totter from fasting, my flesh is shrivelled and spare.
They heap insults upon me: when they see me, they shake their head.
Help me, O Lord my God, and save me in your kindness.
Teach them that this is your hand, and your own doing, O Lord.
Let them curse, if only you bless. Put my assailants to shame, and make your servant glad.
My opponents be clothed with dishonour, and wrapped in a robe of shame.
I give thanks to you, Lord, with loud voice, I give praise in the midst of the throng;
for he stands by the poor, at his right hand, to save them from those who condemn them.