And he called his .xii. disciples vnto hym and gave them power over vnclene sprites to cast them oute and to heale all maner of sicknesses and all maner of deseases.
The names of the .xii. Apostles are these. The fyrst Simon called also Peter: and Andrew his brother. Iames the sonne of zebede aud Ihon his brother.
Philip and Bartlemew. Thomas and Mathew the Publican. Iames the sonne of Alphe and Lebbeus otherwyse called Taddeus.
Simon of Cane and Iudas Iscarioth which also betrayed hym.
These .xii. sent Iesus and comaunded them sayinge: Go not in to ye wayes yt leade to the gentyls and in to ye cities of ye Samaritans enter ye not.
But go rather to ye lost shepe of the housse of Israel.
Go and preach sayinge: yt the kyngdome of heve is at hande.
Heale the sicke clense the lepers rayse the deed caste oute the devils. Frely ye have receved frely geve agayne.
Posses not golde nor silver nor brassse yn youre gerdels
nor yet scrip towardes your iorney: nether two cotes nether shues nor yet a staffe. For the workma is worthy to have his meate.
In to whatsoever cite or toune ye shall come enquyre who ys worthy yn it and there abyde till ye goo thence.
And whe ye come in to an housse salute ye same.
And yf the housse be worthy youre peace shall come apon it. But yf it be not worthy youre peace shall retourne to you agayne.
And whosoever shall not receave you nor will heare youre preachynge: when ye departe oute of yt housse or that cite shake of the duste of youre fete.
Truly I say vnto you: it shalbe easier for the londe of zodoma and Gomorra in the daye of iudgement then for that cite.
Beholde I sende you forthe as shepe amoge wolves. Be ye therfore wyse as serpetes and innocent as doves.
Beware of men for they shall deliver you vp to ye cousels and shall scourge you in their synagoges.
And ye shall be brought to the heed rulers and kynges for my sake in witnes to them and to the gentyls.
But when they delyver you vp take no thought how or what ye shall speake for yt shalbe geve you eve in that same houre what ye shall saye.
For it is not ye that speke but ye sprite of your father which speaketh in you.
The brother shall betraye the brother to deeth and the father the sonne. And the chyldre shall aryse agaynste their fathers and mothers and shall put them to deethe:
and ye shall be hated of all me for my name. But he that endureth to the ende shalbe saved.
When they persecute you in one cite flye in to another. I tell you for a treuth ye shall not fynysshe all yt cities of Israel tyll ye sonne of man be come.
The disciple ys not above hys master: nor yet ye servaut above his lorde.
It is ynough for the disciple to be as hys master ys and that the servaunt be as his lorde ys. yf they have called the lorde of the housse beelzebub: how moche more shall they call them of his housholde so?
Feare the not therfore. There is no thinge so close that shall not be openned and no thinge so hyd that shall not be knowen.
What I tell you in dercknes that speake ye in lyght. And what ye heare in the eare that preache ye on the housse toppes.
And feare ye not them which kyll the body and be not able to kyll the soule. But rather feare hym which is able to destroye bothe soule and body into hell.
Are not two sparowes solde for a farthinge? And none of them dothe lyght on the grounde with out youre father.
And now are all the heeris of youre heedis numbred.
Feare ye not therfore: ye are of more value then many sparowes.
Who soever therfore shall knowledge me before men hym will I knowledge also before my father which is in heuen.
But whoso ever shall denye me before men hym will I also denye before my father which is in heven.
Thynke not that I am come to sende peace into the erth. I came not to send peace but a swearde.
For I am come to set a man at varyaunce ageynst hys father and the doughter ageynst hyr mother and the doughterlawe ageynst her motherlawe:
And a mannes fooes shalbe they of hys owne housholde.
He that lovith hys father or mother more then me is not mete for me. And he that loveth his sonne or doughter more then me is not mete for me.
And he yt taketh not his crosse and foloweth me ys not mete for me.
He that fyndeth hys lyfe shall lose it: and he that losith hys lyfe for my sake shall fynde it.
He that receavith you receavith me: and he that receavith me receavith him that sent me.
He that receavith a prophet in ye name of a prophet shall receave a prophetes rewarde. And he that receavith a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receave the rewarde of a righteous man.
And whosoever shall geve vnto one of these lytle ones to drincke a cuppe of colde water only in the name of a disciple: I tel you of a trueth he shall not lose his rewarde.