Who believed what we have heard? And, the arm of Yahweh, to whom was it revealed?
When he came up as a sapling before him. And as a root-sprout out of dry ground, He had neither beauty nor majesty,—When we beheld him, there was nothing to behold, that we should desire him;
Despised was he, and forsaken of men, Man of pains and familiar with sickness,—Yea, like one from whom the face is hidden, Despised, and we esteemed him not.
Yet surely, our sicknesses, he, carried, And, as for our pains, he bare the burden of them,—But, we, accounted him stricken. Smitten of God and humbled,
Yet, he, was pierced for transgressions that were ours, was crushed for iniquities that were ours,—the chastisement for our well-being, was upon him, And by his stripes, there is healing for us.
We all, like sheep, had gone astray, Every man—to his way, had we burned,—And Yahweh! caused to light upon him The guilt of, us all!
Hard pressed—yet, he, humbled himself Nor opened his mouth—As, a lamb, to the slaughter, is led, And, as a sheep, before her shearers, is dumb—Nor opened his mouth.
By constraint and by sentence, was he taken away, And of his age, who considered That he was cut off out of the land of the living, For my people’s transgression, did the stroke fall on him?
And, appointed with lawless men, was his grave, And with the wicked, his tomb,—Though no violence, had he done, Nor was guile in his mouth.
Yet, Yahweh, purposed to bruise him, He laid on him sickness:—If his soul become an offering for guilt, He shall see a seed, He shall prolong his days,—And the purpose of Yahweh, in his hand, shall prosper:
Of the travail of his soul, shall he see He shall be satisfied with his knowledge, A setting right when set right himself, shall my Servant win for the Many, Since of their iniquities, he, taketh the burden.
Therefore, will I give him a portion in the great, And the strong, shall he apportion as spoil, Because he poured out, to death his own soul, And with transgressors, let himself be numbered,—Yea, he, the sin of Many, bare, And for transgressors, interposeth.