In thee, O LORD! do I put my trust! Let me never be put to shame!
In thy goodness deliver and rescue me; Incline thine ear to me, and save me!
Be thou the rock of my abode, where I may continually resort! Thou hast granted me deliverance; For thou art my rock and my fortress!
Save me, O my God! from the hand of the wicked,-From the hand of the unjust and cruel!
For thou art my hope, O Lord Jehovah! Thou hast been my trust from my youth!
Upon thee have I leaned from my birth; From my earliest breath thou hast been my support; My song hath been continually of thee!
I am a wonder to many, But thou art my strong refuge.
Let my mouth be filled with thy praise; Yea, all the day long, with thy glory.
Cast me not off in mine old age; Forsake me not, When my strength faileth!
For my enemies speak against me, And they who lay wait for my life consult together:
"God," say they, "hath forsaken him; Pursue and seize him; for he hath none to deliver him!"
O God! be not far from me! Come speedily to mine aid, O my God!
Let them perish with shame who are my enemies; Let them be covered with contempt and dishonor who seek my hurt!
But I will hope continually; I shall yet praise thee more and more.
My mouth shall speak of thy goodness,—Of thy sure protection all the day long; For thy mercies are more than I can number.
I will celebrate thy mighty deeds, O Lord Jehovah! I will make mention of thy goodness, of thine only!
O God! thou hast taught me from my youth, And thus far have I declared thy wondrous deeds;
And now, when I am old and gray-headed, O God! forsake me not, Until I make known thine arm to the next generation,-Thy mighty power to all that are to come!
For thy goodness, O God! reacheth to the heavens; Wonderful things doest thou! O God! who is like unto thee?
Thou hast suffered us to see great and grievous troubles; Thou wilt again give us life, And wilt bring us back from the depths of the earth!
Thou wilt increase my greatness; Thou wilt again comfort me!
Then will I praise thee with the psaltery; Even thy faithfulness, O my God! To thee will I sing with the harp, O Holy One of Israel!
My lips shall rejoice, when I sing to thee; And my soul, which thou hast redeemed from death;
My tongue also shall continually speak of thy righteousness: For all who seek my hurt are brought to shame and confounded.