And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. And the sea no longer is.
And I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of Heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her Husband.
And I heard a great voice out of Heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will dwell with them, and they will be His people, and God Himself will be with them and be their God.
And God will wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there will be no more death, nor mourning, nor crying out, nor will there be any more pain; for the first things passed away.
And He sitting on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And He said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful.
And He said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the End. To him who thirsts I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely.
He who overcomes will inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he will be My son.
But the fearful, and the unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, will have their part in the Lake burning with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
And one of the seven angels who had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues came to me and talked with me, saying, Come here, I will show you the bride, the Lamb's wife.
And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of Heaven from God,
having the glory of God. And its light was like a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal.
And it had a great and high wall, with twelve gates. And at the gates ware twelve angels, and names inscribed, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel:
From the east three gates, from the north three gates, from the south three gates, and from the west three gates.
And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And he who talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city and its gates and its wall.
And the city lies four-square, and the length is as large as the breadth. And he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand stadia. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.
And he measured its wall, a hundred and forty-four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of an angel.
And the foundation of its wall was jasper; and the city was pure gold, like clear glass.
And the foundations of the wall of the city had been adorned with every precious stone. The first foundation, jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;
the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprasus; the eleventh, hyacinch; the twelfth, amethyst.
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls. Respectively, each one of the gates was one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, as transparent glass.
And I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God Almighty is its temple, even the Lamb.
And the city had no need of the sun, nor of the moon, that they might shine in it, for the glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
And the nations of those who are saved will walk in the light of it; and the kings of the earth bring their glory and honor into it.
And its gates may not be shut at all by day, for there shall be no night there.
And they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it.
And there shall in no way enter into it anything that defiles, or any making an abomination or a lie; but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.