I charge thee before God, and Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom;
preach the word, be urgent in season, out of season, confute, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and teaching.
For the time will come, when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own desires will they heap to themselves teachers; because they have itching ears;
and they will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn aside to fables.
But be thou watchful in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fully accomplish thy ministry.
For I am already about to be offered as a sacrifice, and the time of my departure is at hand.
I have fought the good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith;
henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give to me at that day, and not to me only, but to all those who have loved his appearing.
Use diligence to come to me shortly.
For Demas forsook me, because he loved the present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee; for he is useful to me for the ministry.
But Tychicus I sent to Ephesus.
The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest bring with thee, and the books, especially the parchments.
Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil; the Lord will reward him according to his works;
of whom do thou also beware; for he hath greatly withstood our words.
At my first defence no one came forward with me, but all forsook me. May it not be laid to their charge!
But the Lord stood by me, and strengthened me, that the preaching might be fully accomplished by me, and that all the gentiles might hear; and I was delivered out of the lion’s mouth.
The Lord will deliver me from every evil deed, and preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
Erastus remained at Corinth, but Trophimus I left at Miletus sick.
Use diligence to come before winter. Eubulus saluteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.
The Lord be with thy spirit. Grace be with you.