He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck shall suddenly be broken, and that without remedy.
When the righteous are increased, the people rejoice; but when the wicked beareth rule, the people sigh.
Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father; but he that keepeth company with harlots wasteth his substance.
The king by justice establisheth the land; but he that exacteth gifts overthroweth it.
A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his steps.
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare; but the righteous doth sing and rejoice.
The righteous taketh knowledge of the cause of the poor; the wicked understandeth not knowledge.
Scornful men set a city in a blaze; but wise men turn away wrath.
If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he be angry or laugh, there will be no rest.
The men of blood hate him that is sincere; and as for the upright, they seek his life.
A fool spendeth all his spirit; but a wise man stilleth it within him.
If a ruler hearkeneth to falsehood, all his servants are wicked.
The poor man and the oppressor meet together; HaShem giveth light to the eyes of them both.
The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom; but a child left to himself causeth shame to his mother.
When the wicked are increased, transgression increaseth; but the righteous shall gaze upon their fall.
Correct thy son, and he will give thee rest; yea, he will give delight unto thy soul.
Where there is no vision, the people cast off restraint; but he that keepeth the law, happy is he.
A servant will not be corrected by words; for though he understand, there will be no response.
Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope for a fool than for him.
He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become master at the last.
An angry man stirreth up strife, and a wrathful man aboundeth in transgression.
A man's pride shall bring him low; but he that is of a lowly spirit shall attain to honour.
Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth the adjuration and uttereth nothing.
The fear of man bringeth a snare; but whoso putteth his trust in HaShem shall be set up on high.
Many seek the ruler's favour; but a man's judgment cometh from HaShem.
An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous; and he that is upright in the way is an abomination to the wicked.