And after these things, it happened, the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt sinned against their lord, against the king of Egypt.
And Pharaoh was angry against his two eunuchs, against the chief of the cupbearers and against the chief of the bakers.
And he gave them into custody, in the house of the chief of the executioners, into the prison house, the place where Joseph was bound.
And the chief of the executioners assigned Joseph to be with them, and he served them. And they were in custody many days.
And they dreamed a dream, both of them, each his dream in one night, each according to the interpretation of his dream, the cupbearer and the baker who belonged to the king of Egypt, who were bound in the prison house.
And Joseph came in to them in the morning. And he looked at them, and, behold, they were sad.
And he asked the eunuchs of Pharaoh who were with him in custody, in the house of his lord, saying, Why are your faces sad today?
And they said to him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter. And Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Now tell it to me.
And the chief of the cupbearers told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me.
And in the vine were three branches. And at its budding, it went up into blossom, its clusters ripened into grapes.
And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into the cup of Pharaoh; and I gave the cup into the hand of Pharaoh.
And Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation: the three branches, they are three days.
Yet within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and will return you to your place. And you will give the cup of Pharaoh into his hand according to the former custom when you were his cupbearer.
But make mention of me along with yourself, when it is well with you; and please do kindness with me and mention me to Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house.
For truly I was stolen from the land of the Hebrews; and here also I have not done anything that they should have put me into the dungeon.
And the chief of the bakers saw that the interpretation was good. And he said to Joseph, I also in my dream saw three baskets of white bread on my head.
And in the top basket some from all the food of Pharaoh, the work of a baker. And the birds were eating them from the basket off my head.
And Joseph answered and said, This is its interpretation: the three baskets are three days.
Yet within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head from you and hang you on a tree, and the birds will eat your flesh off you.
And it happened, on the third day, the day of Pharaoh's birth, he made a feast for all his servants. And he lifted up the head of the chief of the cupbearers and the head of the chief of the bakers in the midst of his servants.
And he restored the chief of the cupbearers to his cupbearer office; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's palm.
And he hanged the chief of the bakers, as Joseph interpreted to them.
And the chief of the cupbearers did not mention Joseph, but forgot him.