Then said Yahweh unto Moses, Now, shalt thou see, what I will do to Pharaoh, for with a strong hand, shall he let them go, and with a strong hand, shall he drive them out from his land.
And God spake unto Moses,—and said unto him, I, am Yahweh:
I appeared, therefore, unto Abraham unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, as GOD Almighty,—although, by my name Yahweh was I not made known to them;
Moreover also I established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan,—even the land of their sojournings wherein they sojourned.
Moreover also, I heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, whom the Egyptians, were holding in servitude, So then I remembered my covenant.
Therefore say thou to the sons of Israel-I, am Yahweh, Therefore will I bring you forth from under the burdens of Egypt, And will deliver you out of their service, And will redeem you with a stretched-out arm, and with great judgments;
And will take you to myself for a people, And will become your God,—And ye shall know that, I Yahweh, am your God, who brought you forth from under the burdens of Egypt:
And I will bring you into the land as to which I uplifted my hand to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob,—and will give it to you as an inheritance: I, am Yahweh.
And Moses spake thus unto the sons of Israel, but they hearkened not unto Moses, through shortness of spirit, and through hard service.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses saying:
Go in speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the sons of Israel go out of his land.
And Moses spake before Yahweh, saying,—Lo! the sons of Israel have not hearkened unto me, how then shall Pharaoh, hear, I, also being of uncircumcised lips.
Thus then did Yahweh speak unto Moses and unto Aaron, yea he gave them a charge unto the sons of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, for the bringing forth of the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
These, are the heads of their ancestral house: The sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel, Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi. These are the families of, Reuben.
And, the sons of Simeon, Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitess. These, are the families of, Simeon.
And, these, are the names of the sons of Levi by their generations, Gershon, and Kohath and Merari, And, the years of the life of Levi, were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
The sons of Gershon, Libni and Shimei by their families.
And the sons of Kohath, Amram and Izhar, and Hebron and Uzziel. And the years of the life of Kohath, were a hundred and thirty-three years.
And the sons of Merari, Mahli and Mushi. These, are the families of the Levites by their generations.
So then, Amram took Jochebed, his father’s sister to himself to wife, and she bare to him—Aaron and Moses. And, the years of the life of Amram, were a hundred and thirty-seven.
And the sons of Izhar, Korah and Nepheg, and Zichri.
And the sons of Uzziel, Mishael and Elzaphan, and Sithri.
And Aaron took Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Nahshon, to himself to wife,—and she bare to him—Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
And the sons of Korah, Assir and Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These are the families of the Korahites.
And Eleazar, son of Aaron took to himself [one] of the daughters of Putiel, to himself to wife, and she bare to him Phinehas. These, are the heads of the fathers of the Levites by their families.
The same, Aaron and Moses,—to whom said Yahweh, Bring ye forth the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt, according to their hosts:
They who were to speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring forth the sons of Israel out of Egypt: The same, Moses and Aaron.
Thus came it to pass, that on a certain day, Yahweh spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt.
So then Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying—I, am Yahweh: Speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, all that, I, am speaking unto thee.
And Moses said before Yahweh,—Lo! I, am of uncircumcised lips, how then will Pharaoh hearken unto me?