HAVING thus spoken, Jesus went out with his disciples beyond the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into which he went himself, and his disciples.
Now Judas also, who betrayed him, knew the place: for frequently had Jesus consorted with his disciples there.
Then Judas having taken a band of soldiers, and the inferior officers of the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and arms.
Jesus therefore, conscious of all things that were coming upon him, going forward, said to them, Whom are ye seeking?
They answered him, Jesus the Nazarean. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. Then stood also Judas, who betrayed him, with these men.
As he then spake to them, I am he, they retreated backward, and fell flat on the ground.
Again therefore he demanded of them, Whom seek ye? Then they said, Jesus the Nazarean.
Jesus answered, I told you that I am he: if therefore ye are seeking me, permit these to go away:
that the saying might be fulfilled, which he spake, That of those whom thou hast given me, I have not lost one of them.
Then Simon Peter having a sword, drew it, and struck a servant of the high-priest, and cut off his right ear. Now the servant’s name was Malchas.
Then said Jesus to Peter, Put up thy sword into the scabbard: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it?
The band therefore, and the chief captain, and the inferior officers of the Jews, seized on Jesus, and bound him,
and led him away to Annas first; for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was the high-priest of that year.
Now Caiaphas was the person who had given his advice to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should be destroyed instead of the people.
Now Simon Peter had followed Jesus, and another disciple: and that disciple was acquainted with the high-priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high-priest.
But Peter stood without at the door. Then that other disciple, who was acquainted with the high-priest, went out, and spoke to the porteress, and introduced Peter.
Then said the damsel who kept the door to Peter, Art not thou also one of the disciples of this man? He saith, I am not.
Now the servants and inferior officers having made a fire, for it was cold, stood and warmed themselves: and there stood Peter with them, and warmed himself.
The high-priest then questioned Jesus concerning his disciples, and respecting his doctrine.
Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews resorted; and in secret have I spoken nothing.
Why dost thou question me? ask those who have heard me, what I have spoken to them: lo, they know what I said.
As he was thus speaking, one of the servants who stood by him gave Jesus a slap on the face, saying, Dost thou answer the high-priest in this fashion?
Jesus replied to him, If I have spoken in an improper manner, bear witness of the evil deed: but if properly, why strikest thou me?
Now Annas had sent him bound to Caiaphas the high-priest.
Meanwhile Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then said they to him, Art not thou also one of this man’s disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not.
One of the servants of the high-priest, being a kinsman of him whose ear Peter cut off, said, Did I not see thee in the garden with him?
Then again Peter denied: and instantly the cock crew.
Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas to the praetorium: and it was early: and they themselves went not into the praetorium, that they should not be defiled; but that they might eat the passover.
Pilate then came out to them, and said, What accusation bring ye against this man?
They answered and said to him, If this fellow had not been a malefactor, we should not have delivered him up to thee.
Pilate then said to them, Take him yourselves, and according to your own law judge him. The Jews then said to him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death:
that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, intimating by what manner of death he should die.
Pilate therefore entered again into the praetorium, and called Jesus, and said to him, Art thou the king of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Dost thou speak this from thyself, or did others speak to thee concerning me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thy own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee to me: what hast thou done?
Jesus replied, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom had been of this world, then would my servants have struggled hard, that I should not have been delivered up to the Jews: but now my kingdom is not from hence.
Then said Pilate unto him. Art thou not a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. For this end I was born, and for this I came into the world, that I should be a witness for the truth. Every one who is of the truth heareth my voice.
Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And having thus spoken, he went out again unto the Jews and saith to them, I find no fault in him.
But ye have a custom, that I should release to you one person at the passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews?
Then again they all clamoured, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.