For there is no gloom to her who had been in anguish, In the former time, he brought into dishonour The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, In the latter time, hath he brought into honour The Lake-way over the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.
the people who were walking in darkness, Have seen a great light,—The dwellers in a land death-shadowed, A light, hath shined upon them.
Thou hast increased the exultation Thou hast made great the joy,—They joy before thee, according to the joy of harvest, As men exult when they distribute spoil.
For, the yoke of their burden, The cross-bar of their shoulder, The goad of their driver, Hast thou broken, as in the day of Midian.
Surely, every boot of one tramping in tumult, and the war-cloak rolled in blood Then shall serve for burning, food for fire;
For, A Child, hath been born to us, A Son, hath been given to us, And the dominion is upon his shoulder,—And his Name hath been called Wonderful Counsellor, Mighty GOD, Father of Futurity, Prince of Prosperity.
Of the increase of dominion, and of prosperity, There shall be no end—Upon the throne of David and Upon his kingdom, By establishing it and By sustaining it, With justice and With righteousness,—From henceforth, Even unto times age-abiding: The jealousy of Yahweh of hosts, will perform this!
A word, hath My Lord, sent unto Jacob,—And it shall alight on Israel;
and the people shall all of them know [it] —Ephraim and the dweller in Samaria—Who in pride and insolence of heart, are saying:
Bricks, have fallen down But with hewn stone, will we build,—Sycomores, have been felled, But with cedars, will we replace them.
Therefore will Yahweh strengthen the adversaries of Resin against him,—And his enemies will he arouse:
Syrians before and Philistines behind, Thus have they devoured Israel with open mouth,—For all this, hath his anger, not turned back, But still, is his hand outstretched.
Yet, the people, have not turned unto him that smote them,—And Yahweh of hosts, have they not sought.
Therefore hath Yahweh cut off from Israel—Head and tail Palm-top and rush, In one day.
The elder and favourite, he, is the head,—And the prophet teaching falsehood, he, is the tail;
And they who should have led this people forward have been causing them to stray,—And, they who are led of them are destroyed,
For this cause, over their choice young men, will My Lord not rejoice, And on their fatherless and their widows, will he not have compassion, For every one of them, is profane and an evildoer, And, every mouth is speaking baseness,—For all this, hath his anger, not turned back, But still, is his hand outstretched.
For lawlessness, hath consumed like fire, Briars and thorns, doth it devour,—Yea it hath kindled upon the thickets of the forest, And they have rolled up as a column of smoke.
Through the wrath of Yahweh of hosts, is the land consumed,—And the people have come to be, as fuel for fire, A man unto his own brother, sheweth not pity;
And he hath slain on the right, and yet is hungry, And hath eaten on the left, yet are they not satisfied,—Every one, the flesh of his own arm, will they eat:
Manasseh—Ephraim, and Ephraim—Manasseh, They together—against Judah,—For all this, hath his anger not turned back, But still, is his hand outstretched.