Consequently nothing is condemnation now to those in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to flesh but according to Spirit.
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus freed me from the law of sin and of death.
For the impotence of the law, in that it was weak because of the flesh, God, having sent his own Son in a form of flesh of sin, and concerning sin, condemned sin in the flesh,
so that the justice of the law might be fulfilled in us, those who walk not according to flesh, but according to Spirit.
For those who are according to flesh think about the things of the flesh, but those according to Spirit the things of the Spirit.
For the mentality of the flesh is death, but the mentality of the Spirit is life and peace.
Because the mentality of the flesh is enmity against God, for it is not submissive to the law of God, for neither is it able.
And those who are in flesh cannot please God.
But ye are not in flesh but in Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if any man does not have the Spirit of Christ, this man is not of him.
And if Christ is in you, the body is indeed dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness.
But if the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised up the Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit that dwells in you.
So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh to live according to flesh.
For if ye live according to flesh, ye are going to die, but if in spirit ye kill the deeds of the body, ye will live.
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God.
For ye did not receive a spirit of bondage again for fear, but ye received a spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.
The Spirit itself testifies with our spirit, that we are children of God.
And if children, also heirs, heirs indeed of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if indeed we suffer jointly, so that we may also be glorified jointly.
For I reckon that the sufferings of the present time are not comparable to the glory that is going to be revealed for us.
For the eager expectation of the creation is waiting for the manifestation of the sons of God.
For the creation was made subject to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope.
Because the creation itself will also be freed from the bondage of corruption into the liberty of the glory of the children of God.
For we know that the whole creation is groaning and travailing together until now.
And not only so, but also ourselves who have the first fruit of the Spirit. And we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for adoption, the redemption of our body.
For we were saved to hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For what is seen, why also hope for that?
But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait through patience.
And likewise also the Spirit helps our weaknesses, for we know not what we would pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself intercedes for us with inexpressible groanings.
And he who searches the hearts knows what is the mentality of the Spirit, because he appeals to God for the sanctified.
And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, who are the called according to purpose.
Because whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be of similar nature of the form of his Son, in order for him to be the firstborn son among many brothers.
And whom he predestined, these he also called, and whom he called, these he also made righteous, and whom he made righteous, these he also glorified.
What then will we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us?
He who did not even spare his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how will he not also give us all things with him?
Who will accuse against the chosen of God? God is he who makes righteous.
Who is he who will condemn? It is Christ who died, but more, who also was raised up, who also is at the right hand of God, who also appeals for us.
Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will tribulation, or restriction, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
Just as it is written, For thy sake we are killed the whole day long. We are considered as sheep of slaughter.
But in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor agents, nor principal positions, nor powers, nor things that have come, nor things that are coming,
nor height, nor depth, nor any other creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.