Then called Moses unto all Israel and said unto them—Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the regulations, which I am speaking in your ears to-day,—so shall ye learn them, and observe to do them.
Yahweh our God, solemnised with us a covenant in Horeb:
not with our fathers did Yahweh solemnise this covenant,—but with us, ourselves—these here to-day, all of us living.
Face to face, spake Yahweh with you in the mount out of the midst of the fire,
(I was standing between Yahweh and you, at that time, to declare unto you the word of Yahweh,—for ye shrank with fear from the presence of the fire, and went not up in the mount) saying:—
I, am Yahweh thy God, who have brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt out of the house of servants:—
Thou shalt not have other gods, besides me:
Thou shalt not make unto thee an image, any form that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath or that is in the waters beneath the earth:
thou shalt not bow thyself down to them nor be led to serve them,—for, I Yahweh thy God, am a jealous GOD, visiting the iniquity of fathers upon sons even unto three generations and unto four, unto them that hate me;
but shewing lovingkindness unto a thousand generation—unto them who love me, and keep my commandments:
Thou shalt not utter the name of Yahweh thy God, for falsehood,—for Yahweh will not let him go unpunished who uttereth his name for falsehood:
Observe the sabbath day, to hallow it,—as Yahweh thy God, hath commanded thee:
six days, shalt thou labour, and do all thy work;
but, the seventh day, is a sabbath unto Yahweh thy God,—thou shalt do no work—thou nor thy son nor thy daughter nor thy servant nor thy handmaid nor thine ox nor thine ass nor any of thy cattle, nor thy sojourner who is within thy gates, that thy servant and thy handmaid may rest, as well as thou.
So shalt thou remember that a servant, wast thou in the land of Egypt, and that Yahweh thy God brought thee forth from thence, with a firm hand, and with a stretched-out arm,—for this cause, hath Yahweh thy God commanded thee to keep the sabbath day:
Honour thy father and thy mother, as Yahweh thy God hath commanded thee,—that thy days may be prolonged and that it may go well with thee, upon the soil which Yahweh thy God is about to give unto thee:
Thou shalt not commit murder:
Neither shalt thou commit adultery:
Neither shalt thou steal:
Neither shalt thou testify against thy neighbour with a witness of falsehood:
Neither shalt thou covet thy neighbour’s wife,—neither shalt thou desire thy neighbour’s house, his field, or his servant, or his handmaid, his ox or his ass, or anything that is thy neighbour’s.
These words, spake Yahweh unto all the convocation of you in the mount out of the midst of the fire the cloud and the thick gloom, a loud voice, and added not,—and he wrote them upon two tables of stone, and gave them unto me.
And it came to pass, when ye heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, the mountain also burning with fire, then drew ye near unto me, even all the heads of your tribes and your elders,
and ye said—Lo! Yahweh our God hath let us see his glory and his greatness, his voice also, have we heard out of the midst of the fire,—this day, have we seen, that God may speak with man who yet may live.
Now, therefore why should we die? for this great fire, will consume, us,—if we ourselves, hear the voice of Yahweh our God any more, we shall die.
For who [is there] of all flesh, that ever heard the voice of a Living God speaking out of the midst of fire as we, and yet lived?
Go, thou, near, and hear, all that Yahweh our God shall say,—so shalt thou speak unto us, all that Yahweh our God shall speak unto thee and we will hear and do.
And Yahweh heard the voice of your words, when ye spake unto me,—and Yahweh said unto me—I have heard the voice of the words of this people which they have spoken unto thee, they have well said all which they have spoken.
Oh that this their heart might remain in them to revere me, and to keep all my commandments all the days,—that it might be well with them and with their sons unto times age-abiding.
Go, say unto them,—Return ye to your tents.
Thou, therefore here stand with me and let me speak unto thee—all the commandment and the statutes and the regulations which thou shalt teach them,—that they may do [them] in the land which I am giving unto them to possess it.
So then ye must observe to do, as Yahweh your God hath commanded you,—ye must not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
In all the way which Yahweh your God hath commanded you, must ye walk,—that ye may live and it be well with you, and that ye may prolong your days in the land, which ye shall possess.