And one of the seven agents who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, Come, I will show thee the judgment of the great whore who sits upon the many waters
with whom the kings of the earth fornicated, and those who inhabit the earth were made drunken with the wine of her fornication.
And he carried me away in spirit into a wilderness. And I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet-colored beast containing names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, adorned with gold and precious stone and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup containing abominations and the filthy things of her fornication,
and upon her forehead a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF WHORES AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
And I saw the woman drunken from the blood of the sanctified, and from the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And having seen her, I wondered with great amazement.
And the agent said to me, Why did thou wonder? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns.
The beast that thou saw was, and is not, and is going to ascend out of the abyss and go into destruction. And those who dwell on the earth will wonder, whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they see the beast that was, and is not, and will come.
Here is the mind that has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains where the woman sits on them.
And there are seven kings, the five are fallen, the one is, the other has not yet come, and when he comes he must remain a little while.
And the beast that was, and is not, he also is an eighth, and is of the seven, and he goes into destruction.
And the ten horns that thou saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but they receive authority as kings one hour with the beast.
These have one mind, and they give their power and authority to the beast.
These will war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them, because he is Lord of lords and King of kings. And those with him are the called and chosen and faithful.
And he says to me, The waters that thou saw, where the whore sits, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.
And the ten horns that thou saw, and the beast, these will hate the whore, and will make her desolate, and will make her naked, and will eat her flesh, and will burn her with fire.
For God gave in their hearts to do his will. Even to do one will, and to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God would be ended.
And the woman whom thou saw is the great city having reign over the kings of the earth.