And Agrippa said to Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth his hand and made his defence:
I think myself happy, king Agrippa, that I am to make my defence this day before thee concerning all things of which I am accused by the Jews;
especially as thou art acquainted with all the customs and questions among the Jews. Wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently.
My manner of life, then, from my youth, which was from the beginning among my own nation and at Jerusalem, all Jews know:
and they know, if they are willing to testify, that from the first, according to the strictest sect of our religion, I lived a Pharisee.
And now I stand on trial for the hope of the promise made by God to the fathers,
which our twelve tribes, earnestly serving God day and night, hope to obtain; concerning which hope, O king, I am accused by Jews.
Why is it judged incredible with you if God raiseth the dead?
I indeed thought with myself that I ought to do many things in opposition to the name of Jesus the Nazarene.
Which I also did in Jerusalem; and many of the saints did I myself shut up in prisons, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them.
And I punished them often in all the synagogues, and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I pursued them even to foreign cities.
And as I was going to Damascus on this business, with authority and a commission from the chief priests,
at mid-day, on the road, O king, I saw a light from heaven above the brightness of the sun, shining around me and those who were journeying with me.
And when we had all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking to me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the goads.
And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest.
But arise and stand upon thy feet; for I have appeared to thee for this purpose, to prepare thee as a minister and a witness both of the things which thou sawest, and of those on account of which I will appear to thee;
delivering thee from the people, and from the gentiles, to whom I send thee,
to open their eyes that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and an inheritance among the sanctified, by faith in me.
Wherefore, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision;
but first to those in Damascus, and Jerusalem, and to all the country of Judaea, and then to the gentiles, I proclaimed that they should repent and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
For these causes the Jews seized me in the temple, and attempted to kill me.
Having, however, obtained help from God, I continue to this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying nothing except those things which the Prophets and Moses said were to come to pass;
that the Christ should suffer, and that, as first of those raised from the dead, he was to proclaim light both to the people and to the gentiles.
And as he was thus speaking in his defence, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning is making thee mad.
But he saith, I am not mad, most noble Festus, but utter words of truth and soberness.
For the king knoweth about these things well; to whom also I speak boldly; for I am persuaded that none of these things is hidden from him: for this was not done in a corner.
King Agrippa, believest thou the Prophets? I know that thou believest.
Then Agrippa said to Paul, With little effort thou thinkest to persuade me to become a Christian.
And Paul said, I would to God, that with little effort or with great, not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, might be made such as I am, except these bonds.
And the king rose up and the governor and Bernice, and those who sat with them;
and going aside they talked with each other, saying, This man is doing nothing deserving death, or bonds.
And Agrippa said to Festus, This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed to Caesar.