And, entering again into Capernaum, after some days, it was heard say—He is in a house;
and many were gathered together, so that no longer was there room even in the approaches to the door,—and he began speaking unto them the word;
and they come, bearing unto him a paralytic, upborne by four,—
and, not being able to get near him by reason of the multitude, they uncovered the roof where he was, and, having broken it up, they began letting down the couch whereon the paralytic was lying;
and, Jesus, seeing their faith, saith unto the paralytic—Child! forgiven are thy sins!
Now there were certain of the Scribes there, sitting and deliberating in their hearts,—
Why doth, this, man thus talk? he is speaking profanely! Who can forgive sins, save one, God?
And Jesus, straightway, taking note in his spirit, that [thus] they are deliberating within themselves, saith [unto them]—Why, these things, are ye deliberating in your hearts?
Which is easier—to say unto the paralytic, Forgiven are thy sins, or to say, Rise, [and] take up thy couch, and be walking?
But, that ye may know that the Son of Man hath authority to be forgiving sins upon the earth, he saith to the paralytic:
To thee, I say, Rise, take up thy couch, and be going thy way unto thy house.
And he arose, and, straightway taking up the couch, went forth before all,—so that all were beside themselves and were glorifying God, [saying]—Thus, we never saw it!
And he went forth again by the sea,—and all the multitude was coming unto him, and he began teaching them.
And, passing by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting over the tax-office,—and saith unto him—Be following me! And, arising, he followed him.
And it cometh to pass, that he is reclining in his house, and many tax-collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples; for there were many, and they began following him.
And the Scribes and Pharisees, seeing that he was eating with the sinners and the tax-collectors, began saying unto his disciples—With the tax-collectors and sinners, is he eating?
And, hearing it, Jesus saith unto them—No need, have the strong of a physician, but they who are sick, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners.
And the disciples of John and the Pharisees were fasting; and they come and say unto him—For what cause, do, the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees, fast, whereas, thy disciples, fast not?
And Jesus said unto them—Is it possible for the sons of the bridechamber, while the bridegroom is with them, to be fasting? So long as they have the bridegroom with them, it is impossible, to fast.
But there will come days, when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and, then, they will fast, in that day.
No one, seweth a patch of unshrunk cloth upon an old mantle,—otherwise, at least, the shrinking teareth away from it—the new from the old—and, a worse rent is made.
And, no one, poureth new wine into fold skins,—otherwise, at least, the wine will burst the skins, and the wine is lost, and, the skins. [But new wine is for unused skins.]
And it came to pass, that he, on the Sabbath, was passing through the cornfields, and his disciples began to be going forward, plucking the ears of corn.
And, the Pharisees, were saying,—See! why are they doing, on the Sabbath, what is not allowed?
And he saith unto them—Have ye never read what David did, when he had need and hungered,—he, and they who were with him:
[how] he entered into the house of God, while Abiathar was High-priest, and, the presence-bread, did eat,—which it is not allowed to eat, save unto the priests,—and gave, unto them also who were with him?
And he was saying unto them—The Sabbath, for man, was made, and not, man, for, the Sabbath:
So that the Son of Man is, Lord, even of the Sabbath.