And all the world was of one tonge and one language.
And as they came from the east they founde a playne in the lande of Synear and there they dwelled.
And they sayd one to a nother: come on let us make brycke ad burne it wyth fyre. So brycke was there stone and slyme was there morter
And they sayd: Come on let vs buylde vs a cyte and a toure that the toppe may reach vnto heauen. And let vs make us a name for perauenture we shall be scatered abrode over all the erth.
And the LORde came downe to see the cyte and the toure which the childern of Ada had buylded.
And the LORde sayd: See the people is one and haue one tonge amonge them all. And thys haue they begon to do and wyll not leaue of from all that they haue purposed to do.
Come on let vs descende and myngell theire tonge even there that one vnderstonde not what a nother sayeth.
Thus ye LORde skatered them from thence vppon all the erth. And they left of to buylde the cyte.
Wherfore the name of it is called Babell because that the LORDE there confounded the tonge of all the world. And because that the LORde from thence skatered them abrode vppon all the erth.
These are the generations of Sem: Se was an hundred yere olde and begat Arcphachsad ij. yere after the floude.
And Se lyved after he had begot Arphachsad .v. hundred yere an begat sonnes and doughters.
And Arphacsad lyued .xxxv. yere and begat Sala
and lyved after he had begot Sala iiij. hudred yere and .iij and begat sonnes and doughters.
And Sala was .xxx. yere old and begat Eber
ad lyued after he had begot Eber .iiij. hudred and thre yere ad begat sonnes and doughters
When Eber was .xxxiiij. yere olde he begat Peleg
and lyued after he had begot Peleg foure hundred and .xxx. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And Peleg when he was .xxx. yere olde begat Regu
and lyued after he had begot Regu. ij. hundred and .ix. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And Regu when he had lyued .xxxij. yere begat Serug
and lyued after he had begot Serug .ij. hundred and .vij. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And when Serug was .xxx. yere olde he begat Nahor
and lyued after he had begot Nahor .ij. hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And Nahor when he was .xxix. yere olde begat Terah
and lyved after he had begot Terah an hundred and .xix. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And when Terah was .lxx. yere olde he begat Abram Nahor and Haran.
And these are the generations of Terah. Terah begat Abram Nahor and Haran. And Haran begat Lot.
And Haran dyed before Terah his father in the londe where he was borne at Vr in Chaldea.
And Abram and Nahor toke them wyves. Abras wyfe was called Sarai. And Nahors wyfe Mylca the doughter of Haran which was father of Milca ad of Iisca.
But Sarai was baren and had no childe.
Than toke Terah Abram his sonne and Lot his sonne Harans sonne and Sarai his doughter in lawe his sone Abrams wyfe. And they went wyth hym from Vr in Chaldea to go in to the lade of Chanaan. And they came to Haran and dwelled there.
And when Terah was ij. hundred yere old and .v. he dyed in Haran.