So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not turn back from it, for he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime.
But I will send a fire against Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth. And Moab shall die with uproar, with a war cry, with the sound of the ram's horn.
And I will cut off the judge in its midst, and I will kill all his rulers with him, says Jehovah.
So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not turn back from it; for they despised the law of Jehovah, and they have not kept His statutes. And their lies after which their fathers walked led them astray.
And I shall send a fire against Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
So says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not turn back from it, for they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of sandals,
panting for the dust of the earth on the head of the helpless, and turning aside the way of the humble. And a man and his father will go in to the same girl, in order to profane the name of My holiness.
And they will stretch out beside every altar, and on garments taken in pledge. And they will drink wine of those being fined in the house of God.
Yet I destroyed the Amorite from before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the great trees. And I destroyed his fruit from above and his roots from below.
Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt and led you in the wilderness forty years, to possess the land of the Amorite.
And I raised up from your sons for prophets, and for Nazarites from your young men. Is this not even so, O sons of Israel? declares Jehovah.
But you gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and you commanded the prophets, saying, Do not prophesy.
Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart full with produce is pressed.
And refuge shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his power, nor shall the mighty deliver his life,
and he who handles the bow shall not stand, and he swift footed shall not save, and the horse rider shall not save his life.
And the stouthearted among the mighty shall run away naked in that day, declares Jehovah.