For the desire thereof hee will separate himselfe to seeke it, and occupie himselfe in all wisdome.
A foole hath no delite in vnderstanding: but that his heart may be discouered.
When the wicked commeth, then commeth contempt, and with the vile man reproch.
The words of a mans mouth are like deepe waters, and the welspring of wisdome is like a flowing riuer.
It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to cause ye righteous to fall in iudgement.
A fooles lips come with strife, and his mouth calleth for stripes.
A fooles mouth is his owne destruction, and his lips are a snare for his soule.
The wordes of a tale bearer are as flatterings, and they goe downe into the bowels of the belly.
He also that is slouthfull in his worke, is euen the brother of him that is a great waster.
The Name of the Lord is a strong tower: the righteous runneth vnto it, and is exalted.
The rich mans riches are his strong citie: and as an hie wall in his imagination.
Before destruction the heart of a man is hautie, and before glory goeth lowlines.
He that answereth a matter before hee heare it, it is folly and shame vnto him.
The spirit of a man will susteine his infirmitie: but a wounded spirit who can beare it?
A wise heart getteth knowledge, and the eare of the wise seeketh learning.
A mans gift enlargeth him, and leadeth him before great men.
He that is first in his owne cause, is iust: then commeth his neighbour, and maketh inquirie of him.
The lot causeth contentions to cease, and maketh a partition among the mightie.
A brother offended is harder to winne then a strong citie, and their contentions are like the barre of a palace.
With the fruite of a mans mouth shall his belly be satisfied, and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.
Death and life are in the power of ye tongue, and they that loue it, shall eate the fruite thereof.
He that findeth a wife, findeth a good thing, and receiueth fauour of the Lord.
The poore speaketh with prayers: but the rich answereth roughly.
A man that hath friends, ought to shew him selfe friendly: for a friend is neerer then a brother.