A Psalm of Asaph. The mighty God, the LORD, has spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to its going down.
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shone.
Our God comes, and He is not silent; a fire shall devour before Him, and it shall be very stormy all around Him.
He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, so that He may judge His people.
Gather My saints to Me; and those who cut My covenant by sacrifice.
And the heavens shall declare His righteousness; for God Himself is judge. Selah.
Hear, My people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against you; I am God, your God.
I will not reprove you for your sacrifices; yea, your burnt offerings are continually before Me.
I will take no bull out of your house, nor he-goats out of your folds.
For every beast of the forest is Mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills.
I know all the birds of the mountains; and the wild beasts of the field are Mine.
If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is Mine, and the fullness of it.
Will I eat the flesh of the mighty, or drink the blood of goats?
Offer to God thanksgiving; and pay your vows to the Most High;
and call on Me in the day of trouble; and I will deliver you, and you shall glorify Me.
But to the wicked, God says, What is it to you, to declare My statutes, and to take up My covenant in your mouth?
Yea, you hate to be taught, and you toss My words behind you.
When you saw a thief, then you were pleased to be with him, and you have taken part with adulterers.
You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue frames deceit.
You sit; you speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son.
These things you have done, and I have kept silence; you thought that I was like yourself, but I will rebuke you, and set in order before your eyes.
Now think of this, you who forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.
Whoever offers praise glorifies Me; and he who sets a way, I will show him the salvation of God.