And it came to pass that, when Abram was ninety and nine years old, Yahweh appeared unto Abram, and said unto him, I, am GOD Almighty,—Walk, thou before me and become thou blameless:
That I may set my covenant betwixt me and thee, And may multiply thee, exceedingly.
And Abram fell on his face,—and God spake with him, saying:
As for me, lo! my covenant is with thee,—So shalt thou become—father of a multitude of nations;
And thy name shall no more be called Abram,—but thy name shall become Abraham, for father of a multitude of nations, have I appointed thee;
And I will make thee fruitful, exceedingly, and grant thee to be nations,—Yea kings, out of thee, shall come forth;
And I will confirm my covenant betwixt me and thee and thy seed after thee to their generations for an age-abiding covenant,—to become to thee a God, and to thy seed after thee;
And I will give to thee and to thy seed after thee the land of thy sojournings—all the land of Canaan, for an age-abiding possession—And I will be to them a God.
And God said unto Abraham, But, as for thee, my covenant, must thou keep, thou and thy seed after thee, to their generations:—
This, is my covenant which ye shall keep, betwixt me and you, and thy seed after thee,—To circumcise to you every male:
So shall ye be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin,—So shall it become a sign of a covenant, betwixt me and you.
And he that is eight days old, shall be circumcised to you every male to your generations,—he that is born of the house, and he that is bought with silver of any son of a stranger, who is, not of thy seed,
He must surely be circumcised, born of thy house or bought with thy silver,—So shall my covenant be in your flesh for an age-abiding covenant.
But, as for the uncircumcised male who shall not be circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin,—that person shall be cut off from among his people,—my covenant, hath he made void.
And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai,—but, Sarah, is her name;
and I will bless her, yea moreover will give—from her—to thee, a son,—And I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of peoples, from her, shall arise.
And Abraham fell on his face and laughed,—and said in his heart To one a hundred years old, shall a child be born? And shall even Sarah, who is ninety years old, give birth?
And Abraham said unto God,—Oh that, Ishmael, might live before thee!
And God said—Truly, Sarah thy wife, is about to bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name, Isaac,—and I will establish my covenant with him as an age-abiding covenant, to his seed after him.
Yet as for Ishmael, I have heard thee; lo! I have blessed him and will make him fruitful, and multiply him, exceedingly,—twelve princes, shall he beget, and I will grant him to be a great nation;
But my covenant, will I establish with Isaac,—whom Sarah shall bear, to thee, by this set time, in the next year.
And he left off speaking with him,—and God went up from Abraham.
So Abraham took Ishmael his son and all born of his house and all bought with his silver—every male among the men of the house of Abraham,—and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin on this selfsame day, according to that which God had spoken with him.
Now Abraham, was ninety-nine years old,—when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
And Ishmael, his son, was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
On this selfsame day, was Abraham circumcised,—and Ishmael his son;
and, all the men of his house, born of his house, and bought with silver from the son of a stranger, were circumcised with him.