In the thirty sixth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha the king of Israel came up against Judah. And he built Ramah, so as not to permit any going out and coming in to Asa the king of Judah.
And Asa brought out silver and gold from the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and from the king's house; and he sent to Ben-hadad the king of Syria, who lived in Damascus, saying,
A covenant shall be between me and you, and between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you silver and gold. Go, break your covenant with Baasha the king of Israel, and he shall go away from me.
And Ben-hadad listened to king Asa, and sent the commanders of his armies to the cities of Israel. And they struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.
And it happened, when Baasha heard, he stopped building Ramah and let his work rest.
And Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and its wood, with which Baasha had built. And he built Geba and Mizpah with them.
And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa the king of Judah and said to him, Because you leaned on the king of Syria, and you have not leaned on Jehovah your God, therefore the army of the king of Syria has escaped from your hand.
Did not the Cushites and the Lubim become a very great army for multitude, for chariots and for horsemen? And when you leaned on Jehovah, He gave them into your hand.
For the eyes of Jehovah run to and fro in all the earth in order to be strong for those with their heart perfect toward Him. You have acted foolishly in this. For this reason, from now on there shall be wars with you.
And Asa was angry with the seer; and he gave him up to the house of stocks. For he was in a rage with him for this. And Asa oppressed some of the people at that time.
And, behold, the acts of Asa, the first and the last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
And Asa was diseased in his feet in the thirty ninth year of his reign, until his disease was severe. And also in his disease he did not seek Jehovah, but among the healers.
And Asa lay with his fathers, and died in the forty first year of his reign.
And they buried him in his grave which he had made for himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which he had filled with sweet odors and kinds of aromatic herbs, with a mixture of ointments by art. And they burned a great burning for him.