After this were the chiefs of fathers’ houses chosen to go up according to their tribes, with their wives and sons and daughters, with their menservants and maidservants, and their cattle.
And Darius sent with them a thousand horsemen, till they had brought them back to Jerusalem  safely, and with musical instruments, tabrets and flutes.
And all their brethren played, and he made them go up together with them.

And these are the names of the men which went up, according to their families among their tribes, after their several divisions.
The priests, the sons of Phinees, the sons of Aaron: Jesus the son of Josedek, the son of Saraias, and Joakim the son of Zorobabel, the son of Salathiel, of the house of David, of the lineage of Phares, of the tribe of Judah;
who spoke wise sentences before Darius the king of Persia in the second year of his reign, in the month Nisan, which is the first month.
And these are they of Jewry that came up from the captivity, where they lived as strangers, whom Nabuchodonosor the king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon.
And they returned to Jerusalem, and to the other parts of Jewry, every man to his own city, who came with Zorobabel, with Jesus, Nehemias, and  Zaraias, Resaias,  Eneneus, Mardocheus, Beelsarus,  Aspharsus,  Reelias, Roimus, and Baana, their leaders.
The number of them of the nation, and their leaders: the sons of  Phoros, two thousand a hundred seventy and two: the sons of  Saphat, four hundred seventy and two:
the sons of  Ares, seven hundred fifty and six:
the sons of  Phaath Moab, of the sons of Jesus and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve:
the sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four: the sons of  Zathui, nine hundred forty and five: the sons of  Chorbe, seven hundred and five: the sons of Bani, six hundred forty and eight:
the sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three: the sons of  Astad,  a thousand three hundred twenty and two:
the sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and seven: the sons of  Bagoi, two thousand sixty and six: the sons of  Adinu, four hundred fifty and four:
the sons of  Ater, of Ezekias, ninety and two: the sons of Kilan and Azetas, three score and seven: the sons of  Azaru, four hundred thirty and two:
the sons of  Annis, a hundred and one: the sons of Arom: the sons of  Bassai, three hundred twenty and three: the sons of Arsiphurith, a hundred and twelve:
the sons of Baiterus, three thousand and five: the sons of  Bethlomon, a hundred twenty and three:
they of Netophas, fifty and five: they of Anathoth, a hundred fifty and eight: they of  Bethasmoth, forty and two:
they of  or  Kariathiarius, twenty and five: they of Caphira and Beroth, seven hundred forty and three:
the Chadiasai and Ammidioi, four hundred twenty and two: they of  Kirama and  Gabbe, six hundred twenty and one:
they of  Macalon, a hundred twenty and two: they of  Betolion, fifty and two: the sons of  Niphis, a hundred fifty and six:
the sons of  Calamolalus and  Onus, seven hundred twenty and five: the sons of  Jerechu,  three hundred forty and five:
the sons of  Sanaas, three thousand three hundred and  thirty.
The priests: the sons of  Jeddu, the son of Jesus, among the sons of Sanasib,  nine hundred seventy and two: the sons of  Emmeruth,  a thousand fifty and two:
the sons of  Phassurus, a thousand two hundred forty and seven: the sons of  Charme,  a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the sons of Jesus, and Kadmiel, and Bannas, and Sudias, seventy and four.
The holy singers: the sons of Asaph, a hundred  twenty and eight.
The porters: the sons of  Salum, the sons of  Atar, the sons of Tolman, the sons of  Dacubi, the sons of  Ateta, the sons of  Sabi, in all a hundred thirty and nine.
The temple servants: the sons of  Esau, the sons of  Asipha, the sons of Tabaoth, the sons of  Keras, the sons of  Sua, the sons of  Phaleas, the sons of Labana, the sons of  Aggaba.
the sons of  Acud, the sons of Uta, the sons of Ketab, the sons of  Accaba, the sons of  Subai, the sons of  Anan, the sons of  Cathua, the sons of  Geddur,
the sons of  Jairus, the sons of  Daisan, the sons of  Noeba, the sons of Chaseba, the sons of  Gazera, the sons of  Ozias, the sons of  Phinoe, the sons of Asara, the sons of  Basthai, the sons of  Asana, the sons of  Maani, the sons of  Naphisi, the sons of  Acub, the sons of  Achipha, the sons of  Asur, the sons of Pharakim, the sons of  Basaloth,
the sons of  Meedda, the sons of Cutha, the sons of  Charea, the sons of  Barchus, the sons of  Serar, the sons of  Thomei, the sons of  Nasi, the sons of Atipha.
The sons of the servants of Solomon: the sons of  Assaphioth, the sons of  Pharida, the sons of  Jeeli, the sons of  Lozon, the sons of  Isdael, the sons of  Saphuthi,
the sons of  Agia, the sons of  Phacareth, the sons of Sabie, the sons of Sarothie, the sons of  Masias, the sons of Gas, the sons of Addus, the sons of Subas, the sons of Apherra, the sons of Barodis, the sons of Saphat, the sons of Allon.
All the temple-servants, and the sons of the servants of Solomon, were three hundred seventy and two.
These came up from  Thermeleth, and  Thelersas,  Charaathalan leading them, and Allar;
and they could not show their families, nor their stock, how they were of Israel: the sons of  Dalan the son of  Ban, the sons of  Nekodan, six hundred fifty and two.
And of the priests, they that usurped the office of the priesthood and were not found: the sons of  Obdia, the sons of  Akkos, the sons of Jaddus, who married Augia one of the daughters of  Zorzelleus, and was called after his name.
And when the description of the kindred of these men was sought in the register, and was not found, they were removed from executing the office of the priesthood:
for to them said Nehemias and Attharias, that they should not be partakers of the holy things, till there arose up a high priest wearing  Urim and Thummim.
So all they of Israel, from twelve years old and upward, beside menservants and women servants, were in number forty and two thousand three hundred and sixty.
Their menservants and handmaids were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: the minstrels and singers, two hundred forty and five:
four hundred thirty and five camels, seven  thousand thirty and six horses, two hundred forty and five mules, five thousand five hundred twenty and five beasts of burden.
And certain of the chief men of their families, when they came to the temple of God that is in Jerusalem, vowed to set up the house again in its own place according to their ability,
and to give into the holy treasury of the works a thousand pounds of gold, five thousand of silver, and a hundred priestly vestments.
And the priests and the Levites and they that were of the people lived in Jerusalem and the country; the holy singers also and the porters and all Israel in their villages.

But when the seventh month was at hand, and when the children of Israel were every man in his own place, they came all together with one consent into the broad place before the first porch which is toward the east.
Then stood up Jesus the son of Josedek, and his brethren the priests, and Zorobabel the son of Salathiel, and his brethren, and made ready the altar of the God of Israel,
to offer burned sacrifices upon it, according as it is expressly commanded in the book of Moses the man of God.
And certain were gathered to them out of the other nations of the land, and they erected the altar upon its own place, because all the nations of the land were at enmity with them, and oppressed them; and they offered sacrifices according to the time, and burnt offerings to the Lord both morning and evening.
Also they held the feast of tabernacles, as it is commanded in the law, and offered sacrifices daily, as was meet:
and after that, the continual oblations, and the sacrifices of the Sabbaths, and of the new moons, and of all the consecrated feasts.
And all they that had made any vow to God began to offer sacrifices to God from the new moon of the  seventh month, although the temple of God was not yet built.
And they gave money to the masons and carpenters; and meat and drink,
and cars to them of Sidon and Tyre, that they should bring cedar trees from Libanus, and convey them in floats to the haven of Joppa, according to the commandment which was written for them by Cyrus king of the Persians.
And in the second year after his coming to the temple of God at Jerusalem, in the second month, began Zorobabel the son of Salathiel, and Jesus the son of Josedek, and their brethren, and the priests the Levites, and all they that were come to Jerusalem out of the captivity:
and they laid the foundation of the temple of God on the new moon of the second month, in the second year after they were come to Jewry and Jerusalem.
And they appointed the Levites from twenty years old over the works of the Lord. Then stood up Jesus, and his sons and brethren, and Kadmiel his brother, and the sons of Jesus, Emadabun, and the sons of Joda the son of Iliadun, and their sons and brethren, all the Levites, with one accord setters forward of the business, laboring to advance the works in the house of God. So the builders builded the temple of the Lord.
And the priests stood arrayed in their vestments with musical instruments and trumpets, and the Levites the sons of Asaph with their cymbals,
singing songs of thanksgiving, and praising the Lord, after the order of David king of Israel.
And they sang aloud, praising the Lord in songs of thanksgiving, because his goodness and his glory are forever in all Israel.
And all the people sounded trumpets, and shouted with a loud voice, singing songs of thanksgiving to the Lord for the rearing up of the house of the Lord.
Also of the priests the Levites, and of the heads of their families, the ancients who had seen the former house came to the building of this with lamentation and great weeping.
But many with trumpets and joy shouted with loud voice,
insomuch that the people heard not the trumpets for the weeping of the people: for the multitude sounded marvelously, so that it was heard afar off.

Wherefore when the enemies of the tribe of Judah and Benjamin heard it, they came to know what that noise of trumpets should mean.
And they perceived that they that were of the captivity did build the temple to the Lord, the God of Israel.
So they went to zorobabel and Jesus, and to the chief men of the families, and said to them, we will build together with you.
For we likewise, as you⌃, do obey your Lord, and do sacrifice to him from the days of  Asbasareth the king of the Assyrians, who brought us hither.
Then Zorobabel and Jesus and the chief men of the families of Israel said to them, It is not  for you to build the house to the Lord our God.
We ourselves alone will build to the Lord of Israel, according as Cyrus the king of the Persians has commanded us.
But the heathen of the land lying heavy upon the inhabitants of Judaea, and  holding them strait, hindered their building;
and  by their secret plots, and popular persuasions and commotions, they hindered the finishing of the building all the time that King Cyrus lived: so they were hindered from building for the space of two years, until the reign of Darius.
