Thys is the boke of the generacion of man In the daye when God created man and made hym after the symilytude of god
Male and female made he the and called their names man in the daye when they were created.
And when Adam was an hundred and thyrty yere old he begat a sonne after hys lycknesse and symilytude: and called hys name Seth.
And the dayes of Adam after he begat Seth were eyght hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
and all the dayes of Adam which he lyved were .ix. hundred and .xxx. yere and then he dyed.
And Seth lyved an hundred and .v. yeres and begat Enos.
And after he had begot Enos he lyved .viij. hundred and .vij. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And all the dayes of Seth were .ix. hundred and .xij. yere and dyed.
And Enos lyved .lxxxx. yere and begat kenan.
And Enos after he begat kenan lyved viij. hundred and .xv. yere and begat sonnes and doughters:
and all the dayes of Enos were .ix hundred and .v. yere and than he dyed.
And kenan lyued .lxx. yere and begat Mahalaliel.
And kenan after he had begot Mahalaliel lyved .viij. hundred and .xl. yere and begat sonnes and doughters:
and al the dayes of kenan were .ix. hundred and .x. yere and than he dyed.
And Mahalaliel lyued .lxv. yere and begat Iared.
And Mahalaliel after he had begot Iared lyved .viij. hundred and .xxx. yere and begat sonnes and doughters:
and all the dayes of Mahalalyell were .viij. hundred nynetye and .v. yeare and than he dyed
And Iared lyved an hundred and .lxij. yere and begat Henoch:
and Iared lyved after he begat Henoch .viij. hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And all the dayes of Iared were .ix. hundred and .lxij. yere and than he dyed.
And Henoch lyved .lxv. yere ad begat Mathusala.
And Henoch walked wyth god after he had begot Mathusala .iij. hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And all the dayes of Henoch were .iij. hundred and .lxv. yere.
and than Henoch lyved a godly lyfe and was nomore sene for God toke hym away.
And Mathusala lyved an hundred and lxxxvij. yere and begat Lamech:
and Mathusala after he had begot Lamech lyved .vij. hundred and .lxxxij. yere ad begat sonnes and doughters.
And all the dayes of Methusala were .ix. hundred .lxix yere and than he dyed.
And Lamech lyved an hundred .lxxxij. yere and begat a sonne
and called hym Noe sayng. This same shall comforte vs: as concernynge oure worke and sorowe of oure handes which we haue aboute the erthe that the LORde hath cursed.
And Lamech lyved after he had begot Noe v. hundred nynetie and .v. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
And all the dayes of Lamech were .vij. hundred .lxxvij. yere and than he dyed.
And when Noe was .v. hundred yere olde he begat Sem Ham and Iaphet.