Wherefore, having this ministry, even as we received mercy, we faint not;
But have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully,—but, by the manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves unto every conscience of men, in the sight of God.
And, even if our glad-message is veiled, in them who are perishing, it is veiled,
In whom, the god of this age, hath blinded the minds of the unbelieving, to the end they may not discern the radiance of the glad-message of the glory of the Christ—who is the image of God.
For, not ourselves, do we proclaim, but Christ Jesus, as Lord, and, ourselves, as your servants for Jesus’ sake.
Because, the God who said—Out of darkness, light shall shine! [is he] who hath shone in our hearts, in proportion to the radiance of the glorious knowledge of God, in the face of Christ.
Howbeit we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that, the surpassing greatness of the power, may be of God, and not from ourselves:—
On every side, pressed hard, but not hemmed in, without a way, but not without a by-way,
Pursued, but not abandoned, thrown down, but not destroyed;—
At all times, the putting to death of Jesus, in our body, bearing about, in order that, the life also of Jesus, in our body, may be made manifest;
For, evermore, we, the living, unto death are being delivered, for Jesus’ sake, in order that, the life also of Jesus, may be made manifest in our mortal flesh:
So that, his death, in us, doth energise, but, his life, in you.
Howbeit, seeing that we have the same spirit of faith, according to that which is written—I believed, therefore I spake, we, also believe, therefore also we speak:
Knowing that, he who raised up [the Lord] Jesus, will raise up, us also, together with Jesus, and will present [us] together with you.
For, all things, are for your sakes, in order that, the favour abounding, may, through means of the greater number, cause, the thanksgiving, to superabound unto the glory of God.
Wherefore we faint not, but, even if, our outer man, is decaying, nevertheless, our inner [man], is renewing day by day.
For, the momentary lightness of the tribulation, in a manner yet more and more excelling, is working out for us, an age-abiding weight of glory,—
So long as we are not looking out for the visible things, but for the invisible; for, the visible things, are temporary, whereas, the invisible, are age-abiding.