But all the tax-collectors and the sinners were, unto him, drawing near, to be hearkening unto him;
and both the Pharisees and the Scribes were murmuring, saying, This man, unto sinners, giveth welcome, and eateth with them.
And he spake unto them this parable, saying—
What man from among you, having a hundred sheep, and losing, from among them, one, doth not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go his way after the lost one, until he find it?
And, finding it, he layeth it upon his shoulders, rejoicing;
and, coming unto his house, calleth together the friends and the neighbours, saying unto them—Rejoice with me! because I have found my sheep that was lost!
I say unto you—Thus, joy in heaven, will there be, over one sinner repenting, rather than over ninety-nine righteous persons, who indeed have, no need, of repentance.
Or, what woman, having, ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and seek carefully, until she find it?
And, having found it, she calleth together her female friends and neighbours, saying—Rejoice with me! because I have found the piece of silver which I had lost.
Thus, I say unto you, there ariseth joy in presence of the messengers of God, over one sinner repenting.
And he said—A certain man, had two sons.
And the younger of them said unto the father—Father! give me the share that falleth to me, of what there is. And, he, divided unto them the living.
And, after not many days, the younger son, gathering all together, left home for a country far away, and, there, squandered his substance with riotous living.
And, when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine throughout that country,—and, he, began to be in want.
And he went his way, and joined himself unto one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to be feeding swine.
And he used to long to be filled with the pods which the swine were eating; and, no man, was giving unto him.
But coming, to himself, he said—How many hired servants of my father, have bread enough and to spare, whereas, I, with famine, here, am perishing!
I will arise, and go unto my father, and will say unto him—Father! I have sinned against heaven, and before thee:
No longer, am I worthy to be called a son of thine,—Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose, and came unto his own father.
Now, while yet he was holding afar off, his father saw him, and was moved with compassion, and, running, fell upon his neck, and tenderly kissed him.
And the son said unto him—Father! I have sinned against heaven, and before thee: No longer, am I worthy to be called a son of thine,—[make me as one of thy hired servants.]
But the father said unto his servants—Quick! bring forth a robe—the best! and put on him, and get out a ring for his hand, and sandals for his feet.
And be bringing the fatted calf, sacrifice! and let us eat and make merry:
Because, this my son, was, dead, and hath come to life again, was lost, and is found. And they began to be making merry.
But his elder son was in a field; and, as, in coming, he drew near unto the house, he heard music and dancing,—
and, calling near one of the youths, he inquired what these things, could be.
And, he, said unto him,—Thy brother, hath come, and thy father hath sacrificed the fatted calf, because, safe and sound, hath he received him back.
But he was provoked to anger, and would not go in. And, his father, coming out, began to entreat him.
But, he, answering said unto his father—Lo! so many years as these, do I serve thee, and, at no time, a commandment of thine, have I transgressed,—And, unto me, at no time, hast thou given a kid, that, with my friends, I might make merry;
But, when, this thy son, who had devoured thy living with harlots, came, thou didst sacrifice, for him, the fatted calf;
But, he, said unto him—Child! thou, always, art, with me, and, all that is mine, is, thine;
But, to make merry and rejoice, there was need, because, this thy brother—was, dead, and hath come to life again, and was lost, and is found.