When a man stealeth an ox or a sheep, and slayeth it, or selleth it, with five of the herd, shall he make good—for the ox, or with four of the flock, for the sheep.
If, in the place of breaking in, the thief be found and he is smitten so that he dieth, there is due for him no shedding of blood:
should the sun have arisen upon him, there would be shedding of blood due for him,—he is surely to make restitution, if he hath nothing, then is he to be sold, for his theft.
If the thing stolen is found in his hand—whether ox or ass or sheep, alive, with two, shall he make restitution.
When a man causeth a field or a vineyard to be depastured, or hath sent in his own cattle and stripped the field of another, he shall, surely make restitution, out of his own field, according to the yield thereof; or if, all the field, he depasture, with the best of his own field, or with the best of his own vineyard, shall he make restitution.
When a fire breaketh out and hath come upon thorns and so there is consumed a stack of sheaves, or the standing corn, or the field, he that kindled the fire, shall surely make restitution.
When a man giveth unto his neighbour silver or jewelry, to keep, and it is stolen out of the house of the man:
if the thief be found, he shall give in restitution double, if the thief be not found, then shall the owner of the house be brought near unto God to swear that he hath not laid his hand on the property of his neighbour.
For any affair of trespass—for an ox, for an ass, for a sheep, for a mantle for anything lost as to which one could say—This is it, unto God, shall come the affair of them both,—he whom God shall condemn, shall make restitution of double to his neighbour.
When a man delivereth unto his neighbour, an ass, or an ox or a sheep, or any beast, to keep,—and it dieth or is fractured, or is driven away, no one beholding,
the oath of Yahweh, shall come between them both, That he hath not laid his hand on the property of his neighbour,—then shall the owner thereof accept it and he shall not make restitution.
But, if it be verily stolen, from him, he shall make restitution to the owner thereof.
If it be, verily torn in pieces, he shall bring it in as a witness—for that which was torn, he shall not make restitution.
And when a man asketh aught of his neighbour, and it is fractured or dieth, its owner, not being with it, he shall, surely make restitution.
If, its owner, was with it, he shall not make restitution,—if it is, hired, it cometh into its hire.
And, when a man enticeth a virgin who is not betrothed, and lieth with her, he shall, surely pay a purchase-price, that she may be his wife.
If her father utterly refuse, to give her to him, silver, shall he weigh out, according to the purchase-price of virgins.
A sorceress, shalt thou not suffer to live.
Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.
He that sacrificeth to the gods shall be devoted to destruction,—except [he sacrificeth] to Yahweh alone.
And, a sojourner, shalt thou not tread down neither shalt thou drive him away,—for sojourners, ye became in the land of Egypt.
Neither widow nor fatherless, shalt thou humiliate:
if thou, do humiliate, him, when he in anywise crieth out unto me, I will, surely hear, his outcry:
so shall kindle mine anger, and I will slay you with the sword,—and your wives, shall become widows, and your, sons fatherless.
If, silver, thou wilt lend unto my people—unto the humbled one by thee, thou shalt not be to him like one that lendeth on interest,—thou shalt not lay upon him interest.
If thou, do take in pledge, the mantle of thy neighbour, by the going in of the sun, shalt thou restore it to him;
for that is his only covering, that, is his mantle, for his skin,—wherein shall he sleep? and it shall come to pass when he maketh outcry unto me, then will I hear because, gracious, I am.
God, shalt thou not revile,—and a prince among thy people, shalt thou not curse.
Thy fulness and thine outflow, shalt thou not delay,—the firstborn of thy sons, shalt thou give to me.
Thus, shalt thou do with thine ox with thy sheep,—seven days, shall it be with its dam, on the eighth day, shalt thou give it to me.
Holy men, therefore shall ye truly become to me,—and flesh in the field torn to pieces, shall ye not eat, to the dogs, shall ye cast it.