Let as many as are slaves under a yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name and teaching of God may not be blasphemed.
And those having believing masters, let them not despise them , because they are brothers, but rather let them serve as slaves, because they are believing and beloved ones, those receiving of the good service in return. Teach and exhort these things.
If anyone teaches differently, and does not consent to sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ and the doctrine according to godliness,
he has been puffed up, understanding nothing, but is sick concerning doubts and arguments, out of which comes envy, strife, evil-speakings, evil suspicions,
meddling, of men whose mind has been corrupted and deprived of the truth, supposing gain to be godliness. Withdraw from such persons .
But godliness with contentment is great gain.
For we have brought nothing into the world, and it is plain that neither can we carry anything out.
But having food and clothing, we will be satisfied with these.
But those having purposed to be rich fall into temptation, and a snare, and many foolish and hurtful lusts, which plunge men into destruction and loss.
For the love of money is a root of all evils, by means of which some having lusted after it were seduced from the faith, and they themselves pierced through by many pains.
But you, O man of God, flee these things and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and meekness.
Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, to which you were also called and confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
I charge you before God, He making all things alive, and Christ Jesus, He witnessing the good confession to Pontius Pilate,
that you keep the commandment spotless, blameless, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
who in His own time will reveal the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings and Lord of lords,
the only One having immortality, living in light that cannot be approached, whom no one of men saw, nor can see; to whom be honor and everlasting might. Amen.
Charge the rich in the present age not to be high-minded, nor to set hope on the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God, He offering to us richly all things for enjoyment;
to do good, to be rich in good works, to be ready to share, generous,
treasuring up for themselves a good foundation for the coming age , that they may lay hold on everlasting life.
O Timothy, guard the Deposit, having turned away from the profane empty babblings and opposing theories of the falsely named knowledge,
which some having asserted have missed the mark concerning the faith. Grace be with you. Amen.