And I saw, out of the sea, a wild-beast coming up; having ten horns, and seven heads, and, upon his horns, ten diadems, and, upon his head, names of blasphemy.
And, the beast which I saw, was like unto a leopard; and, his feet, as of a bear, and, his mouth, as the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave unto him his power, and his throne, and great authority.
And [I saw] one of his heads, showing that it had been slain unto death, and, the stroke of his death, was healed. And the whole earth marveled after the wild-beast,
and did homage unto the dragon, because he gave his authority unto the wild-beast; and they did homage unto the wild-beast, saying—Who is like unto the wild-beast? and Who can make war with him?
And there was given unto him, a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and it was given unto him to act, forty and two months.
And he opened his mouth for blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tent,—them, who, in heaven were tabernacling.
[And it was given unto him, to make war with the saints, and to overcome them;] and there was given him, authority against every tribe and people and tongue and nation.
And all they who are dwelling upon the earth will do homage unto him,—[every one] whose name is not written in the scroll of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.
If anyone hath an ear: let him hear.
If anyone [carrieth] into captivity, into captivity, he goeth away. If anyone, with a sword, doth slay, he must, with a sword, be slain. Here, is the endurance and the faith of the saints.
And I saw another wild-beast, coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns, like unto a lamb, and began speaking as a dragon.
And, all the authority of the first wild-beast, he useth before him; and causeth the earth, and them who, therein, are dwelling, that they shall do homage unto the first wild-beast, whose stroke of death, was healed.
And he doeth great signs, so that, even fire, he causeth to be coming down unto the earth before men;
and he deceiveth them who are dwelling upon the earth, by reason of the signs which it was given him to do before the wild-beast,—saying unto them who are dwelling upon the earth, that they should make an image unto the wild-beast who hath the stroke of the sword, and yet did live.
And it was given unto it, to give spirit unto the image of the wild-beast, in order that the image of the wild-beast should both speak and should cause that, as many as should not do homage unto the image of the wild-beast, should be slain.
And he causeth all—the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the free and the bond,—that they should give unto them a mark, upon their right hand or upon their forehead;
[and] that no one should be able to buy or to sell, save he that hath the mark, the name of the beast, or the number of his name.
Here, is, wisdom: he that hath understanding, let him count the number of the beast, for it is, the number of a man; and, his number, is 666.