And after these things, the Lord appointed seventy others, also, and sent them, two and two, before his face, into every city and place to which he himself was about to go.
He said, therefore, to them: The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few; pray, therefore, the Lord of the harvest that he send out laborers into his harvest.
Go; behold, I send you as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Carry no purse, nor bag, nor sandals; and salute no one on the road.
Whatever house you enter, first say, Peace be to this house.
And if a son of peace be there, your peace shall rest on him; but, if not, it shall return upon you.
And in that house remain, eating and drinking what they have to give; for the laborer is worthy of his hire; go not from house to house.
And whatever city you enter, and they receive you, eat what is set before you;
and heal those in it who are sick, and say to them: The kingdom of God has come near to you.
But whatever city you enter, and they receive you not, go out into the streets of it, and say:
Even the dust of your city, which cleaves to us, we do wipe off against you; yet know this, that the kingdom of God has come near to you.
I say to you, It shall be more tolerable, in that day, for Sodom, than for that city.
Alas for thee, Chorazin! alas for thee, Bethsaida! for, if the mighty works which have been done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
But for Tyre and Sidon it shall be more tolerable in the judgment, than for you.
And thou, Capernaum, who hast been exalted to heaven, shalt be brought down to hades.
He that hears you, hears me; and he that rejects you, rejects me; and he that rejects me, rejects him that sent me.
And the seventy returned with joy, and said: Lord, even the demons are subject to us through thy name.
And he said to them: I saw Satan, like lightning from heaven, falling.
Behold, I give you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and authority over all the power of the enemy; and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
However, rejoice not in this, that the spirits are subject to you; but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.
In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said: I thank thee, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them to babes; even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight.
All things are delivered to me by my Father; and no one knows who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him.
And he turned to his disciples, and said privately: Blessed are the eyes that see what you see.
For I say to you, that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, and did not see; and to hear what you hear, and did not hear.
And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up to tempt him, and said: Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
He said to him: What is written in the law? How do you read?
He answered and said: You shall love the Lord your God with your whole heart, and with your whole soul, and with your whole strength, and with your whole understanding, and your neighbor as yourself.
He said to him: You have answered correctly; do this, and you shall live.
But, wishing to justify himself, he said to Jesus: And who is my neighbor?
And Jesus answered and said: A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among; robbers, who stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and went away, leaving him half dead.
And by chance a certain priest went down along that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
In like manner, also, a Levite, when he came to the place, went and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.
But a certain Samaritan, who was on a journey, came near him; and when he saw him, he had compassion on him.
And he went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine; and he put him on his own beast, and carried him to an inn, and took care of him.
And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two denarii, and gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him: Take care of him; and whatever you spend more, on my return, I will repay you.
Which, then, of these three do you think was neighbor to him that fell among the robbers?
He replied: He that showed mercy to him. Jesus said to him: Go, and do you likewise.
And it came to pass, as they continued their journey, that he entered a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at the feet of Jesus, and heard his word.
But Martha made herself busy with much serving; and she came to him, and said: Lord, dost thou not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Bid her, therefore, that she help me.
But Jesus answered and said to her: Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things:
one thing is needful; and Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken from her.