Brothers, even if a man should be caught committing a sin, you who are spiritually minded should, in a gentle spirit, help him to recover himself, taking care lest any one of you also should be tempted.
Bear one another’s burdens, and so carry out the Law of the Christ.
If a man imagines himself to be somebody, when he is really nobody, he deceives himself.
Let every one test his own work, and then his cause for satisfaction will be in himself and not in a comparison of himself with his neighbour;
for every one must bear his own load.
He, however, who is being instructed in the Message ought always to share his blessings with the man who instructs him.
Do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked. What a man sows that he will reap.
For he who sows the field of his earthly nature will from that earthly nature reap corruption; while he who sows the field of the spirit will from that spirit reap Immortal Life.
Let us never tire of doing right, for at the proper season we shall reap our harvest, if we do not grow weary.
Therefore, I say, as the opportunity occurs, let us treat every one with kindness, and especially members of the Household of the Faith.
See in what large letters I am writing with my own hand.
Those who wish to appear to advantage in regard to outward observances are the very people who are trying to compel you to be circumcised; and they do it only to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Jesus, the Christ.
Even these men who are circumcised do not themselves keep the Law; yet they want you to be circumcised, so that they may boast of your observance of the rite.
But, for my part, may I never boast of anything except the cross of Jesus Christ, our Master, through whom the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
For neither is circumcision nor the omission of it anything; but a new nature is everything.
May all who rule their conduct by this principle find peace and mercy — they who are the Israel of God.
For the future let no one trouble me; for I bear the marks of Jesus branded on my body.
May the blessing of Jesus Christ, our Lord, rest on your souls, Brothers. Amen.