For you yourselves know, brethren, our entrance among you, that it was not in vain.
But having suffered before, and having been outraged, as you know, in Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in the midst of great peril.
For our exhortation arose not from deception, nor from uncleanness, nor was it with guile;
but as God had judged us worthy to be intrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God, who tries our hearts.
For neither nattering words did we at any time use, as you know, nor a pretext for covetousness; God is witness:
nor did we seek glory from men, neither from you nor from others; though we could have been burdensome as the apostles of Christ.
But we were gentle among you. As a nurse nourishes her children,
so, having a strong affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but our own lives also, because you had become dear to us.
For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil; for, laboring night and day, that we might not be burdensome to any one of you, we preached to you the gospel of God.
You are witnesses, and God also, in how holy and just and blameless a manner we conducted ourselves among you that believe,
as indeed you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a father his children,
that you should walk in a manner worthy of God, who has called you to his own kingdom and glory.
For this reason, also, we thank God without ceasing; because, when you received the word of God, as preached by us, you embraced it, not as the word of men, but, as it is in truth, the word of God, which effectually works in you that believe.
For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God in Judea which are in Christ Jesus; for you, also, have suffered the same things from your own countrymen, that they have suffered from the Jews,
who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and have persecuted us, and do not please God, and are opposed to all men,
forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, in order that they may fill up their sins at all times: but the wrath is coming upon them to the full.
But we, brethren, having been taken from you for a short time, in person, not in heart, did, with great desire, endeavor the more earnestly to see your face.
For this reason, we intended to go to you, (I Paul) both once and again, but Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even you, in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? You indeed are our glory and joy.
