And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them,—I—Yahweh, am your God:—
After the doings of the land of Egypt wherein ye dwelt, shall ye not do,—And after the doings of the land of Canaan whither, I, am bringing you in, shall ye not do, And, in their statutes, shall ye not walk:
My regulations, shall ye do, And, my statutes, shall ye observe to walk therein,—I—Yahweh, am your God.
Therefore shall ye observe my statutes, and my regulations, Which if the son of earth shall do them, Then shall he live in them,—I, am Yahweh.
No person whatsoever, unto any of the near kin of his own flesh, shall approach to uncover the parts of shame,—I, am Yahweh.
The shame of thy father, even the shame of thy mother, shalt thou not uncover,—thy mother, she is, thou shalt not uncover her shame.
The shame of thy father’s wife, shalt thou not uncover,—thy father’s shame, it is.
The shame of thy sister daughter of thy father or daughter of thy mother, born at home or born abroad, thou shalt not uncover their shame.
The shame of the daughter of thy son or the daughter of thy daughter, thou shalt not uncover their shame,—for, thine own shame, they are.
The shame of the daughter of thy father’s wife, born to thy father, she being, thy sister, thou shalt not uncover her shame.
The shame of thy father’s sister, shalt thou not uncover,—thy father’s near of kin, she is.
The shame of thy mother’s sister, shalt thou not uncover,—for, thy mother’s near of kin, she is.
The shame of thy father’s brother, shalt thou not uncover unto his wife, shalt thou not approach, thine aunt, she is.
The shame of thy daughter-in-law, shalt thou not uncover,—thy son’s wife, she is, thou shalt not uncover her shame.
The shame of thy brother’s wife, shalt thou not uncover,—the shame of thy brother, it is.
The shame of a woman, and of her daughter, shalt thou not uncover,—neither the daughter of her son nor the daughter of her daughter, shalt thou take, to uncover her shame, near of kin, they are, wickedness, it is.
And, a woman unto her sister, shalt thou not take,—to cause rivalry, by uncovering her shame besides her own while she is living.
And unto a woman during her removal for uncleanness, shalt thou not approach, to uncover her shame.
And of the wife of thy neighbour, shalt thou not have carnal knowledge,—to commit uncleanness with her.
And none of thy seed, shalt thou deliver up, to cause to pass through to Molech,—that thou profane not the name of thy God, I, am Yahweh.
And, with mankind, shalt thou not lie as with womankind,—an abomination, it is.
And of no beast, shalt thou have carnal knowledge to commit uncleanness therewith,—neither shall a woman present herself to a beast to couch down thereto,—confusion, it is.
Do not make yourselves unclean in any of these things,—For in all these things, have the nations made themselves unclean, whom, I, am sending out from before you.
Therefore hath the land become unclean, and I have visited the iniquity thereof upon it,—and the land hath vomited her inhabitants.
Ye, therefore, shall observe my statutes and my regulations, and have nothing to do with any of these abominations,—whether the home-born, or the sojourner that sojourneth in your midst;
For all these abominations, have the men of the land done, who were before you; And so the land hath become unclean:
So shall the land not vomit you, through your making it unclean,—as it vomited the nation which was before you.
For whosoever shall have anything to do with any of these abominations, the persons who have, shall be cut off, out of the midst of their people.
Therefore shall ye keep my charge, So that ye may have nothing to do with any of the abominable statutes with which they have had to do before you, So shall ye not make yourselves unclean thereby,—I—Yahweh, am your God.