When you sit down to eat with a ruler, look carefully at what is before you,
and put a knife to your throat if you are an owner of an appetite.
Do not desire his delicacies, for it is the bread of lies.
Do not labor to be rich, cease from your own understanding.
Will your eyes fly on it? And it is not! For surely it makes wings for itself, it flies into the heavens like an eagle.
Do not eat the bread of one having an evil eye, and do not desire his delicacies,
for as he thinks in his heart, so is he! He says to you, Eat and drink, but his heart is not with you.
You shall vomit the bit you have eaten and spoil your pleasant words.
Do not speak in the ears of a fool, for he will despise the good sense of your words.
Do not move the old landmark, and do not enter into the fields of the fatherless,
for their Redeemer is mighty, He will contend for their cause with you.
Bring your heart in for instruction, and your ears to the words of knowledge.
Do not withhold correction from a boy, for if you strike him with the rod, he will not die.
You shall beat him with the rod, and you shall deliver him from Sheol.
My son, if your heart is wise, my heart shall rejoice, even I.
And my reins shall rejoice when your lips speak right things.
Do not let your heart envy sinners, but only be in the fear of Jehovah all the day.
For surely there is a hereafter, and your hope shall not be cut off.
My son, hear you, and be wise, and advance your heart in the way.
Be not among heavy drinkers of wine, with flesh gluttons to themselves,
for the drunkard and the glutton lose all, and sleepiness shall clothe one with rags.
Listen to your father, this one sired you, and do not despise your mother when she is old.
Buy the truth, and sell it not, also wisdom, and instruction and understanding.
The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice, and he who fathers a wise one shall even be glad in him.
Your father and your mother shall be glad, and she who bore you shall rejoice.
My son, give Me your heart, and let your eyes watch My ways.
For a harlot is a deep pit, and a strange woman is a narrow well.
Surely she lies in wait, as for prey, and she increases the treacherous among men.
Who has woe, who sorrow? Who has contentions, who has babbling? Who has wounds without cause? Who has dullness of eyes?
those who stay long at the wine, those who go to seek mixed wine.
Do not look at the wine when it is red, when it gives its color in the cup, when it goes down smoothly,
at its last it bites like a snake, and it stings like a basilisk.
Your eyes shall look on strange women, and your heart shall speak perverse things;
yes, you shall be as one who lies down in the middle of the sea, or as he who lies on the top of a mast,
saying , They struck me! I was not sick! They beat me, yet I did not know. When I awaken I will add to it , I will still seek it.