And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,
and was there forty days, to be tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing during those days; and when they were ended, he was afterward hungry.
And the devil said to him: If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread.
And Jesus answered him, and said: It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.
And the devil took him up into a high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world, in a moment of time.
And the devil said to him: I will give you all the authority and glory of these, for it is delivered to me; and to whomever I will, I give it.
If, therefore, you will bow with reverence before me, all shall be yours.
And Jesus answered and said to him: Get behind me, Satan; it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.
And he brought him to Jerusalem, and placed him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him: If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from this place;
for it is written, He will give his angels charge concerning you, to guard you carefully;
and in their hands they shall take you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.
And Jesus answered and said to him: It is said, You shall not put the Lord your God to the proof.
And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a time.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and his fame went throughout the whole of that region.
And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up; and, as his custom was, he entered the synagogue on the sabbath-day, and stood up to read.
And the volume of Isaiah the prophet was given to him: and when he had unrolled the volume, he found the place where it was written:
The Spirit of the Lord is upon me; because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he has sent me to heal the brokenhearted; to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind; to set free the oppressed;
to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord.
And he rolled up the volume, and save it back to the attendant, and sat down; and the eyes of all that were in the synagogue were earnestly fixed upon him.
And he began to say to them: This scripture which you have heard, is this day fulfilled.
And all extolled him; and they wondered at the words of grace which proceeded out of his mouth, and said: Is not this the son of Joseph?
And he said to them: You will assuredly apply to me this proverb, Physician, heal yourself. Whatever things we have heard were done in Capernaum, do also here in your country.
And he said: Verily I say to you, No prophet is accepted in his own country.
And I tell you, in truth, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut up for three years and six months, so that a great famine was on all the land:
and to no one of them was Elijah sent, but to Sarepta, a city of Sidon, to a woman that was a widow.
And many lepers were in Israel, in the time of Elisha the prophet; and no one of them was cleansed but Naaman the Syrian.
And all that were in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with anger,
and arose, and drove him out of the city, and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw him down headlong.
But he passed through the midst of them, and went away.
And he went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the sabbath-days.
And they were astonished at his teaching, for his word was with authority.
And there was in the synagogue a man who had the spirit of an unclean demon; and he cried out with a loud voice,
saying: Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou Nazarene? Hast thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying: Be silent, and come out of him. And the demon threw him into the midst, and came out of him, and hurt him not.
And amazement came upon all, and they spoke one to another, saying: What teaching is this? for with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out.
And his fame went abroad into every place of the country round about.
And he arose and went out of the synagogue into the house of Simon. And Simon’s mother-in-law was confined with a violent fever: and they besought him in her behalf.
And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever, and it left her: and she arose immediately, and ministered to them.
And when the sun had gone down, all that had any sick with various diseases, brought them to him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and cured them.
Demons also came out of many, crying out and saying: Thou art the Christ, the Son of God. And he rebuked them, and did not permit them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ.
And when it was day, he went out and departed into a desert place; and the multitudes sought for him, and came to him and endeavored to detain him, that he should not go away from them.
But he said to them: I must make known the good news of the kingdom of God to other cities also; for to this end I have been sent.
And he continued to preach in the synagogues of Galilee.