He who desires to separate himself seeks excuses, and rages against all sound wisdom.
A fool has no delight in understanding, but only that his heart may reveal itself.
When a wicked man comes, contempt also comes, and with disgrace, reproach.
The words of a man's mouth are deep waters. The wellspring of wisdom is a flowing brook.
To respect the person of a wicked man is not good, nor to turn aside a righteous man in judgment.
A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calls for stripes.
A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul.
The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts.
He also that is slack in his work is brother to him that is a destroyer.
The name of Jehovah is a strong tower. A righteous man runs into it, and is safe.
The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as a high wall in his own imagination.
Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honor is humility.
He who gives answer before he hears, it is folly and shame to him.
The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity, but a broken spirit who can bear?
The heart of a prudent man gets knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeks knowledge.
A man's gift makes room for him, and brings him before great men.
He who pleads his case first seems just, but his neighbor comes and searches him out.
The lot causes contentions to cease, and decides between the mighty.
A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city, and such contentions are like the bars of a castle.
A man's belly shall be filled with the fruit of his mouth. With the increase of his lips he shall be satisfied.
Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it shall eat the fruit of it.
He who finds a wife finds a good thing, and obtains favor from Jehovah.
A poor man uses entreaties, but a rich man answers roughly.
He who makes many friends does it to his own destruction, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.