AND when he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about half an hour.
And I saw the seven angels which stood before God, and there were given to them seven trumpets.
And another angel came, and stood by the altar, holding a golden censer; and there were given to him many perfumes, to offer with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
And the smoke of the perfumes went up with the prayers of the saints, out of the angel’s hand before God.
And the angel took the censer, and filled it from the fire of the altar, and cast it upon the earth: and there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
And the seven angels holding the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
And the first angel blew the trumpet, and there were hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast on the earth; and a third part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
And the second angel sounded, and there was cast into the sea as it were a vast mountain burning with fire: and the third part of the sea became blood;
and a third part of the creatures having life, which are in the sea, died; and a third part of the ships was destroyed.
And the third angel blew the trumpet, and there fell from heaven a great star, burning as a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of water;
and the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters was turned into wormwood, and multitudes of men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
And the fourth angel sounded, and a third part of the sun was smitten, and a third part of the moon, and a third part of the stars; so that a third part of them was darkened, and the day had no light during a third part of it, and the night likewise.
And I saw and heard one angel flying in the mid-heavens, saying with a loud voice, Wo, wo, wo, to the dwellers upon earth, because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of the three angels, which are ready to sound.