The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
And Amram's sons: Aaron and Moses; also Miriam. And the sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Eleazar fathered Phinehas; Phinehas fathered Abishua;
and Abishua fathered Bukki; and Bukki fathered Uzzi;
and Uzzi fathered Zerahiah; and Zerahiah fathered Meraioth;
Meraioth fathered Amariah; and Amariah fathered Ahitub;
and Ahitub fathered Zadok; and Zadok fathered Ahimaaz;
and Ahimaaz fathered Azariah; and Azariah fathered Johanan;
and Johanan fathered Azariah, he who acted in the priest's office in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem.
And Azariah fathered Amariah; and Amariah fathered Ahitub;
and Ahitub fathered Zadok; and Zadok fathered Shallum;
and Shallum fathered Hilkiah; and Hilkiah fathered Azariah;
and Azariah fathered Seraiah; and Seraiah fathered Jehozadak;
and Jehozadak went away when Jehovah exiled Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And these are the names of the sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers:
to Gershon: his son Libni; Jahath, his son; Zimmah, his son;
Joah, his son; Iddo, his son; Zerah, his son, Jeaterai, his son.
The sons of Kohath: his son Amminadab; Korah, his son; Assir, his son;
Elkanah, his son; Ebiasaph, his son; and Assir, his son;
Tahath, his son; Uriel, his son; Uzziah, his son; Shaul, his son.
And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth,
Elkanah; the sons of Elkanah: Zophai, his son; and Nahath, his son;
Eliab, his son; Jeroham, his son; Elkanah, his son;
and the sons of Samuel: Joel , the first-born; and the second, even Abijah.
The sons of Merari were Mahli; Libni, his son; Shimei, his son; Uzza, his son;
Shimea, his son; Haggiah, his son; Asaiah, his son.
And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of Jehovah, after the ark had rested.
And they ministered with singing before the resting place of the tabernacle of the congregation, until Solomon had built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem. And they waited on their office according to their ordinance.
And these are those who stood, and their sons: Of the sons of the Kohathites, Heman, a singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,
the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
he son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,
the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,
the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel.
And his kinsman Asaph who stood on his right hand: Asaph, the son of Berachiah, the son of Shimea,
the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah,
the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,
the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.
And their brothers, the sons of Merari stood on the left: Ethan, the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,
the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,
the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer,
the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
Also their brothers, the Levites, were appointed for every service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
But Aaron and his sons offered on the altar of burnt offering, and on the altar of incense, for all the work of the Most Holy Place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
And these were the sons of Aaron: Eleazar, his son; Phinehas, his son; Abishua, his son;
Bukki, his son; Uzzi, his son; Zerahiah, his son;
Meraioth, his son; Amariah, his son; Ahitub, his son;
Zadok, his son; Ahimaaz, his son.
And these are their dwelling places by their camps, within their borders, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites, for the lot was theirs.
And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and its open lands all around it.
But the fields of the city, and its villages, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
And to the sons of Aaron, they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, and Libnah and its open lands; and Jattir, and Eshtemoa and its open lands;
and Hilen and its open lands; Debir and its open lands;
and Ashan and its open lands; and Beth-shemesh and its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Benjamin was Geba and its open lands; and Alemeth and its open lands; and Anathoth and its open lands. All their cities in their families were thirteen cities.
And to the sons of Kohath, left of the family of that tribe, ten cities out of the half tribe, the half of Manasseh by lot.
And to the sons of Gershom for their families: Out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
To the sons of Merari by the lot, for their families: out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the sons of Israel gave the cities to the Levites and their open lands.
And they gave by the lot these cities which they call by their names: out of the tribe of the sons of Judah, and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin.
And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their borders out of the tribe of Ephraim.
And they gave to them for cities of refuge: Shechem in Mount Ephraim and its open lands; and Gezer and its open lands;
and Jokmeam and its open lands; and Beth-horon and its open lands;
and Aijalon and its open lands; and Gathrimmon and its open lands.
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh: Aner and its open lands; and Bileam and its open lands for the family of the rest of the sons of Kohath.
To the sons of Gershom: out of the family of the half tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan and its open lands; and Ashtaroth and its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh and its open lands; Daberath and its open lands;
and Ramoth and its open lands; and Anem and its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Asher, Mashal and its open lands; and Abdon and its open lands;
and Hukok and its open lands; and Rehob and its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee and its open lands; and Hammon and its open lands; and Kirjath-aim and its open lands.
To the rest of the sons of Merari: out of the tribe of Zebulun Rimmon and its open lands; Tabor and its open lands.
And beyond Jordan, by Jericho, on the east of the Jordan: out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness, and its open lands; and Jahzah and its open lands;
and Kedemoth and its open lands; and Mephaath and its open lands.
And out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead and its open lands; and Mahanaim and its open lands;
and Heshbon and its open lands; and Jazer and its open lands.