Then said Yahweh unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh,—for, I, have suffered his heart to be dull and the heart of his servants, that I may show these my signs, in their midst;
and that thou mayest recount in the ears of thy son and thy sons’ son, what I did in derision of the Egyptians, and my signs which I displayed among them,—so shall ye know that I, am Yahweh.
And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him—Thus, saith Yahweh, God of the Hebrews, How long hast thou refused to humble thyself before me? Let my people go that they may serve me.
But if, refusing, thou art to let my people go, behold me bringing in tomorrow a locust within thy bounds;
and it shall cover the eye of the land, so that one shall not be able to see the land,—and it shall eat the residue that hath escaped, that is left you from the hail, and shall eat up all the trees that sprout for you out of the field;
and they shall fill thy houses, and the houses of all thy servants and the houses of all the Egyptians, such as thy fathers and thy fathers’ fathers have never seen, from the day they came to be on the ground, until this day. And he turned away, and came out from the presence of Pharaoh.
Then said the servants of Pharaoh unto him, How long shall this [man] become to us a snare? Let the men go, that they may serve Yahweh their God. Not yet, knowest thou, that Egypt is, ruined?
So Moses and Aaron were brought back unto pharaoh, and he said unto them—Go, serve Yahweh your God,—who, are they that are going?
And Moses said, With our young and with our old, will we go,—with our sons and with our daughters with our flocks and with our herds, will we go,—for, the festival of Yahweh, is ours.
Then he said unto them: Let Yahweh, so, be with you, when I let go you and your little ones! Look out for, harm, is straight before your faces.
Not so! Go, I pray you, ye grown men and serve Yahweh, for, that, is what, ye, were seeking. And they were driven out from the presence of Pharaoh.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses—Stretch forth thy hand over the land of Egypt for the locust, that it may come up over the land of Egypt,—and may eat up every herb of the land, all that the hail hath left.
And Moses stretched forth his staff over the land of Egypt, and, Yahweh, caused an east wind to drive through the land, all that day, and all the night,—when the morning, had come, the east wind, had brought the locust.
And the locust came up over all the land of Egypt, and settled in all the bounds of Egypt,—very grievous, before it, had not been such a locust as that, neither after it, should be one like it.
So it covered the eye of all the land and the land was darkened, and it did eat every herb of the land and all the fruit of the trees, which the hail had left remaining,—so that there was not left remaining any green sprout in the trees or in the herb of the field in all the land of Egypt.
Then hastened Pharaoh, to call for Moses and for Aaron,—and said—I have sinned against Yahweh your God, and against you.
Now, therefore, forgive I pray you my sin—only this time, and make entreaty to Yahweh your God,—that he may take away from me, at least, this death.
So he came out from Pharaoh,—and made entreaty unto Yahweh;
and Yahweh turned back a west wind strong exceedingly, and carried away the locust and cast it into the Red Sea,—there was not left a single locust in all the bounds of Egypt.
But Yahweh suffered the heart of Pharaoh to wax bold,—and he did not let the sons of Israel go.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses: Stretch forth thy hand over the heavens, that there may be darkness, over the land of Egypt,—and that one may feel the darkness.
So Moses stretched forth his hand over the heavens,—and there was thick darkness in all the land of Egypt for three days;
they saw not one another neither rose any man from his couch for three days,—but all the sons of Israel, had light in their dwellings.
Then Pharaoh called out unto Moses and said—Go serve Yahweh, only, your flocks and your herds, shall be left,—even your little ones shall go with you.
And Moses said, Even thou thyself, shalt give into our hands sacrifices and ascending-offerings,—so shall we present offerings to Yahweh our God.
Moreover also, our own cattle, shall go with us—there shall not be left behind, a hoof, for thereof, must we take, to serve Yahweh our God,—even we ourselves, cannot know wherewith we must serve Yahweh, until we have come in thither.
And Yahweh let the heart of Pharaoh wax bold,—and he was not willing to let them go.
So Pharaoh said to him—Get thee from me,—take heed to thyself—do not any more! see my face, for in the day thou dost see my face, thou shalt die.
And Moses said—Well hast thou spoken,—no more again to see thy face.