And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven agents, Go ye and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God into the earth.
And the first went and poured out his bowl into the earth, and a bad and evil sore developed upon the men who have the mark of the beast and who worship its image.
And the second agent poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood like of a dead man, and every living soul in the sea died.
And the third agent poured out his bowl into the rivers and into the springs of the waters, and they became blood.
And I heard the agent of the waters saying, Thou are righteous who is and was-the Divine-because thou judged these things.
Because they poured out the blood of the sanctified and prophets, and thou have given them blood to drink; they are deserving.
And I heard the altar saying, Yea, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.
And the fourth agent poured out his bowl upon the sun, and it was given him to scorch men with fire.
And the men were scorched with great heat. And the men blasphemed the name of God who has power over these plagues, and they did not repent to give him glory.
And the fifth agent poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast, and its kingdom became darkened, and they gnawed their tongues from the anguish.
And they blasphemed the God of heaven from their pains and from their sores. And they did not repent of their works.
And the sixth agent poured out his bowl upon the great river Euphrates, and the water of it was dried up, so that the way of the kings from the rising of the sun might be prepared.
And I saw out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs.
For they are spirits of demons, doing signs that go forth to the kings of the whole world, to gather them together to the battle of that great day of the Almighty God.
(Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches, and keeps his garments, so that he may not walk naked, and they see his shame.)
And he gathered them together into the place called in Hebrew, Armageddon.
And the seventh agent poured out his bowl upon the air, and a great voice came forth out of the temple of heaven, out of the throne, saying, It has come to pass.
And there occurred lightnings, and thunders, and voices. And a great earthquake occurred, such as did not happen from that time men came to be upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, so great.
And the great city became in three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And the great Babylon was remembered before God, to give to her the cup of the wine of the wrath of his anger.
And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.
And great hail, like a talent weight, descended out of the sky upon men. And the men blasphemed God from the plague of the hail, because the plague of it was exceedingly great.