Bless Jehovah, O my soul! O Jehovah my God, You are very great; You have put on honor and majesty,
covering Yourself with light like a cloak, and stretching out the heavens like a curtain;
who lays beams in the waters of His upper rooms; setting thick clouds as His chariots; walking on the wings of the wind.
He makes His angels spirits, His ministers a flaming fire.
He founded the earth on its foundations; it shall not be shaken forever and ever.
You have covered the deep as with a robe; the waters stood above the mountains.
From Your rebuke, they flee; from the sound of Your thunder, they hurry away.
They go up the mountains; they go down the valleys to the place which You founded for them.
You have set a boundary they may not pass over; they shall not return to cover the earth.
He sends springs into the valleys; they flow between the hills;
they give drink to every animal of the field; wild asses break their thirst;
over them the birds of the heavens dwell; they give voice from between the branches.
He waters the hills from His upper rooms; the earth is satisfied from the fruit of Your works.
He causes the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for the service of man, to bring food out of the earth.
And wine cheers the heart of man; oil makes his face shine, and bread sustains the heart of man.
The trees of Jehovah are satisfied the cedars of Lebanon that He planted;
there where the birds nest; the fir trees are the house of the stork;
high hills are for the wild goats; rocks are a refuge for the badgers.
He made the moon for seasons; the sun knows its going down.
You put darkness, and it is night; in it all the forest animals creep.
The young lions roar for prey, and to seek their food from God.
The sun rises; they are gathered, and go to their dens to lie down.
Man goes out to his work, and to his labor until the evening.
O Jehovah, how many are Your works! You have made all of them in wisdom; the earth is full of Your riches.
This is the sea, great and wide on both hands; there are creeping things even without number; living things, small and great.
There the ships go; You formed this great sea-animal to play in it.
All of them wait for You to give them their food in due season.
You give to them; they gather; You open Your hand, and they are filled with good.
You hide Your face, and they are troubled; You gather their breath, and they expire and return to their dust.
You send out Your Spirit, and they are created; and You renew the face of the earth.
The glory of Jehovah shall be forever; Jehovah shall rejoice in His works.
He looks to the earth, and it trembles; He touches the hills, and they smoke.
I will sing to Jehovah during my life; I will sing praise to my God while I exist.
My thoughts on Him shall be sweet; I will be glad in Jehovah.
Let sinners perish from the earth and let the wicked be no more; bless Jehovah, O my soul; praise Jehovah!