Now there was a certain man in Caesarea, named Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort which is called Italian,
a devout man, fearing God with all his house, giving many alms to the people, and praying to God continually.
This man saw in a vision clearly, at about the ninth hour of the day, the Angel of God entering to him and saying to him: “Cornelius!”
And he, gazing at him, was seized by fear, and he said, “What is it, lord?” And he said to him: “Your prayers and your almsgiving have ascended as a memorial in the sight of God.
And now, send men to Joppa and summon a certain Simon, who is surnamed Peter.
This man is a guest with a certain Simon, a tanner, whose house is beside the sea. He will tell you what you must do.”
And when the Angel who was speaking to him had departed, he called, out of those who were subject to him, two of his household servants and a soldier who feared the Lord.
And when he had explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa.
Then, on the following day, while they were making the journey and approaching the city, Peter ascended to the upper rooms, so that he might pray, at about the sixth hour.
And since he was hungry, he wanted to enjoy some food. Then, as they were preparing it, an ecstasy of mind fell over him.
And he saw heaven opened, and a certain container descending, as if a great linen sheet were let down, by its four corners, from heaven to earth,
on which were all four-footed beasts, and the crawling things of the earth and the flying things of the air.
And a voice came to him: “Rise up, Peter! Kill and eat.”
But Peter said: “Far be it from me, lord. For I have never eaten anything common or unclean.”
And the voice, again a second time to him: “What God has purified, you shall not call common.”
Now this was done three times. And immediately the container was taken up to heaven.
Now while Peter was still hesitant within himself as to what the vision, which he had seen, might mean, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius stood at the gate, inquiring about Simon’s house.
And when they had called out, they asked if Simon, who is surnamed Peter, was a guest in that place.
Then, as Peter was thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Behold, three men seek you.
And so, rise up, descend, and go with them, doubting nothing. For I have sent them.”
Then Peter, descending to the men, said: “Behold, I am the one whom you seek. What is the reason for which you have arrived?”
And they said: “Cornelius, a centurion, a just and God-fearing man, who has good testimony from the entire nation of the Jews, received a message from a holy Angel to summon you to his house and to listen to words from you.”
Therefore, leading them in, he received them as guests. Then, on following the day, rising up, he set out with them. And some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.
And on the next day, he entered Caesarea. And truly, Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his family and closest friends.
And it happened that, when Peter had entered, Cornelius went to meet him. And falling before his feet, he reverenced.
Yet truly, Peter, lifting him up, said: “Rise up, for I also am only a man.”
And speaking with him, he entered, and he found many who had gathered together.
And he said to them: “You know how abominable it would be for a Jewish man to be joined with, or to be added to, a foreign people. But God has revealed to me to call no man common or unclean.
Because of this and without doubt, I came when summoned. Therefore, I ask you, for what reason have you summoned me?”
And Cornelius said: “It is now the fourth day, to this very hour, since I was praying in my house at the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in a white vestment, and he said:
‘Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your almsgiving has been remembered in the sight of God.
Therefore, send to Joppa and summon Simon, who is surnamed Peter. This man is a guest in the house of Simon, a tanner, near the sea.’
And so, I promptly sent for you. And you have done well in coming here. Therefore, all of us are now present in your sight to hear all the things that were taught to you by the Lord.”
Then, Peter, opening his mouth, said: “I have concluded in truth that God is not a respecter of persons.
But within every nation, whoever fears him and works justice is acceptable to him.
God sent the Word to the sons of Israel, announcing the peace through Jesus Christ, for he is the Lord of all.
You know that the Word has been made known throughout all Judea. For beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached,
Jesus of Nazareth, whom God anointed with the Holy Spirit and with power, traveled around doing good and healing all those oppressed by the devil. For God was with him.
And we are witnesses of all that he did in the region of Judea and in Jerusalem, he whom they killed by hanging him on a tree.
God raised him up on the third day and permitted him to be made manifest,
not to all the people, but to the witnesses preordained by God, to those of us who ate and drank with him after he rose again from the dead.
And he instructed us to preach to the people, and to testify that he is the One who was appointed by God to be the judge of the living and of the dead.
To him all the Prophets offer testimony that through his name all who believe in him receive the remission of sins.”
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell over all of those who were listening to the Word.
And the faithful of the circumcision, who had arrived with Peter, were astonished that the grace of the Holy Spirit was also poured out upon the Gentiles.
For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God.
Then Peter responded, “How could anyone prohibit water, so that those who have received the Holy Spirit would not be baptized, just as we also have been?”
And he ordered them to be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then they begged him to remain with them for some days.