I have spoken to you in this way so that you may not falter.
They will expel you from their Synagogues; indeed the time is coming when any one who kills you will think that he is making an offering to God.
They will do this, because they have not learned to know the Father, or even me.
But I have spoken to you of these things that, when the time for them comes, you may remember that I told you about them myself.
I did not tell you all this at first, because I was with you. But now I am to return to him who sent me; and yet not one of you asks me — ‘Where are you going?’
Although your hearts are full of sorrow at all that I have been saying to you.
Yet I am only telling you the truth; it is for your good that I should go away. For otherwise the Helper will never come to you, but, if I leave you, I will send him to you.
And he, when he comes, will bring conviction to the world as to Sin, and as to Righteousness, and as to Judgment;
as to Sin, for men do not believe in me;
as to Righteousness, for I am going to the Father, and you will see me no longer;
as to Judgment, for the Spirit that is ruling this world has been condemned.
I have still much to say to you, but you cannot bear it now.
Yet when he — The Spirit of Truth — comes, he will guide you into all Truth; for he will not speak on his own authority, but he will speak of all that he hears; and he will tell you of the things that are to come.
He will honour me; because he will take of what is mine, and will tell it to you.
Everything that the Father has is mine; that is why I said that he takes of what is mine, and will tell it to you.
In a little while you will no longer see me; and then in a little while you will see me indeed.”
At this some of his disciples said to one another: “What does he mean by saying to us ‘In a little while you will not see me, and then in a little while you will see me indeed’; and by saying ‘Because I am going to the Father’?
What does he mean by ‘In a little while’?” they said; “we do not know what he is speaking about.”
Jesus saw that they were wanting to ask him a question, and said: “Are you trying to find out from one another what I meant by saying ‘In a little while you will not see me; and then in a little while you will see me indeed’?
In truth I tell you that you will weep and mourn, but the world will rejoice; you will suffer pain, but your pain shall turn to joy.
A woman in labour is in pain because her time has come; but no sooner is the child born, than she forgets her trouble in her joy that a man has been born into the world.
You, in the same way, are sorry now; but I shall see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will rob you of your joy.
And at that time you will not ask me anything; in truth I tell you, if you ask the Father for anything, he will grant it to you in my Name.
So far you have not asked for anything, in my Name; ask, and you will receive, so that your joy may be complete.
I have spoken to you of all this in figures; a time is coming, however, when I shall not speak any longer to you in figures, but shall tell you about the Father plainly.
You will ask, at that time, in my Name; and I do not say that I will intercede with the Father for you;
for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came from the Father.
I came out from the Father, and have come into the world; and now I am to leave the world, and go to the Father.”
“At last,” exclaimed the disciples, “you are using plain words and not speaking in figures at all.
Now we are sure that you know everything, and need not wait for any one to question you. This makes us believe that you did come from God.”
“Do you believe that already?” Jesus answered.
“Listen! a time is coming — indeed it has already come — when you are to be scattered, each going his own way, and to leave me alone; and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.
I have spoken to you in this way, so that in me you may find peace. In the world you will find trouble; yet, take courage! I have conquered the world.”