But now so says Jehovah who formed you, O Jacob; and He who made you, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I called you by your name; you are Mine.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow you. When you walk in the fire, you shall not be burned, nor shall the flame kindle on you.
For I am Jehovah your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I gave Egypt for your atonement; Ethiopia and Seba instead of you.
Since you were precious in My eyes, you are honored, and I love you; and I give men instead of you; and peoples instead of your soul.
Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your seed from the sunrise; and I will gather you from the sunset.
I will say to the north, Give up! And to the south, Do not hold back! Bring My sons from afar, and bring My daughters from the ends of the earth;
everyone who is called by My name, and I have created him for My glory; I have formed him; yea, I have made him.
Bring out the blind people, yet there are eyes; and the deaf, yet there are ears to him.
Let all the nations be assembled, and let the peoples be gathered. Who among them can declare this and cause us to hear former things? Let them give their witnesses, that they may be justified. Or let them hear and say, It is true.
You are My witnesses, says Jehovah; and My servant whom I have chosen; that you may know and believe Me, and understand that I am He. Before Me there was no God formed; nor shall any be after Me.
I, I am Jehovah; and there is no Savior besides Me.
I declared, and I saved, and I proclaimed; and there is not an alien god among you. And you are My witnesses, says Jehovah, and I am God.
Yea, from this day I am He, and no one delivers from My hand. I will work, and who will reverse it?
So says Jehovah, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and have brought down as fugitives all of them, even the Chaldeans, whose shout is in the ships.
I am Jehovah, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.
So says Jehovah, who makes a way in the sea, and a path in mighty waters;
who brings out chariot and horse, force and power; they shall lie down together; they shall not rise; they are put out; they are snuffed out like the wick.
Do not remember former things, nor consider the things of old.
Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall sprout. Shall you not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, rivers in the desert.
The beast of the field shall honor Me, jackals and daughters of ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to My people, My chosen.
The people that I formed for Myself shall declare My praise.
But you have not called on Me, Jacob; but you have been weary of Me, Israel.
You have not brought Me the lamb of your burnt offerings; even your sacrifices have not honored Me. I have not caused you to serve with an offering, nor wearied you with incense.
You have not bought calamus for Me with silver, nor have you filled Me with fat of your sacrifices; but you made Me serve by your sins; you wearied Me by your iniquities.
I, even I, am He who blots out your trespasses for My sake; and I will not remember your sins.
Cause Me to remember; let us enter into judgment together; sum up for yourself, that you may be justified.
Your first father sinned, and your interpreters transgressed against Me.
And I will defile the rulers of the sanctuary, and will give Jacob to the curse, and Israel to reviling.