A Psalm of David. Do not fret yourself with evil doers; and do not be envious against the workers of iniquity.
For they shall soon wither like the grass; and fade as the green herb.
Trust in the LORD, and do good; you shall dwell in the land, and you shall be fed on truth.
Delight yourself also in the LORD, and He shall give you the desires of your heart.
Roll your way on the LORD; trust also in Him, and He will work.
And He shall bring forth your righteousness like the light, and your judgment like the noonday.
Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for Him; do not fret yourself because of him who prospers in his way, because of him who practices wickedness.
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; do not fret yourself to do evil.
For evildoers shall be cut off; but those who wait on the LORD, they shall inherit the earth.
It is but a little while, and the wicked shall not be; yea, you shall search his place, and he shall not be.
But the meek shall inherit the earth, and shall delight themselves in the overflowing of peace.
The wicked plots against the just, and gnashes on him with his teeth.
The LORD laughs at him; for He sees that his day is coming.
The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, to kill those who walk uprightly.
Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
A little to the righteous is better than the riches of many wicked.
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken; but the LORD upholds the righteous.
The LORD knows the days of the upright, and their inheritance shall be forever.
They shall not be ashamed in the evil time; and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
But the wicked shall pass, and the enemies of the LORD shall be like the beauty of pastures; they are consumed, like smoke they perish.
The wicked borrows, and never pays again; but the righteous shows mercy, and gives.
For His blessed ones shall inherit the earth; and those cursed by Him shall be cut off.
The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD; and He delights in his way.
Though he fall, he shall not be cast down; for the LORD upholds his hand.
I have been young, and am old; yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread.
All the day long he deals graciously, and lends; and his seed is blessed.
Depart from evil and do good; and live forevermore.
For the LORD loves judgment and does not forsake His saints; they are kept forever; but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell in it forever.
The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, and his tongue talks of judgment.
The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide.
The wicked watches the righteous, and seeks to kill him.
The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor allow him to be found guilty when he is judged.
Wait on the LORD, and keep His way, and He shall lift you up to inherit the earth; when the wicked are cut off, you shall see it.
I have seen the wicked ruthless, and spreading himself like a luxuriant native tree.
Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not; and I looked for him, but he could not be found.
Watch the perfect and behold the upright one; for the end of that man is peace.
But the sinners are destroyed together; the end of the wicked is cut off.
But the salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; He is their strength in the time of trouble.
And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them; He shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in Him.