There were present at that season some that told him of the Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
And Jesus answering said to them, Suppose ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they suffered such things?
I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem?
I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
He spoke also this parable; A certainmanhad a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit on it, and found none.
Then said he to the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?
And he answering said to him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it :
And if it shall bear fruit, well : and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down.
And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
And, behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no way raise herself .
And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said to her, Woman, thou art loosed from thy infirmity.
And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.
And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because Jesus had healed on the sabbath, and said to the people, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.
The Lord then answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his donkey from the stall, and lead him away to watering?
And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, to be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?
And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.
Then said he, To what is the kingdom of God like? and to what shall I compare it?
It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, and became a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in its branches.
And again he said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God?
It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.
And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem.
Then said one to him, Lord, are there few that are saved? And he said to them,
Strive to enter in at the narrow gate: for many, I say to you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.
When once the master of the house hath risen up, and hath shut the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us; and he shall answer and say to you, I know you not where ye are from:
Then ye shall begin to say, We ate and drank in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets.
But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not where ye are from; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.
There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out.
And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God.
And, behold, there are last who shall be first, and there are first who shall be last.
The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying to him, Go away, and depart from here: for Herod will kill thee.
And he said to them, Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out demons, and I do cures to day and to morrow, and the third day I shall be perfected.
Nevertheless I must walk to day, and to morrow, and the day following: for it cannot be that a prophet should perish out of Jerusalem.
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent to thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen gathereth her brood under her wings, and ye would not!
Behold, your house is left to you desolate: and verily I say to you,  Ye shall not see me, until the time shall come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.