In that day this song shall be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; He sets up salvation as our walls and banks.
Open the gates, and the righteous nation shall enter in, keeping faithfulness.
You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on You; because he trusts in You.
Trust in the LORD forever; for in the LORD JEHOVAH is everlasting strength.
For He brings down those who dwell on high; He lays low the lofty city; He lays it low, even to the ground; He brings it to the dust.
The foot shall trample it, the feet of the poor and the steps of the needy.
The way of the just is uprightness; O Upright One, weigh the path of the just.
Yea, in the way of Your judgments, O LORD, we awaited You; for Your name and for Your memory is the desire of our soul.
With my soul I desired You in the night; yea, with my spirit within me I will seek You early; for when Your judgments are in the earth, the people of the world learn righteousness.
Let favor be shown to the wicked, yet he will not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness he will deal unjustly, and will not behold the majesty of the LORD.
LORD, Your hand is lifted up, they will not see; but they shall see and be ashamed for their envy toward Your people. Yes, the fire of Your enemies shall devour them.
LORD, You will ordain peace for us; for You also have worked all our works in us.
O LORD our God, lords besides You have had the rule over us; but by You only will we make mention of Your name.
Dead ones do not live; departed spirits do not rise. Therefore You have visited and destroyed them, and made all memory of them to perish.
You have increased the nation, O LORD, You have increased the nation; You are glorified; You have extended all the ends of the land.
LORD, in trouble they have visited You; they poured out a prayer; Your chastening was on them.
As a woman with child draws near to bear, she is in pain and cries out in her pangs; so have we been in Your sight, O LORD.
We conceived; we have been in pain, we gave birth to wind. We have not brought about any salvation in the earth; nor have the people of the world fallen.
Your dead ones shall live, together with my dead body they shall arise. Awake and sing, you who dwell in the dust; for your dew is as the dew of lights, and the earth shall cast out the dead.
Come, my people, enter into your rooms and shut your doors around you; hide for a little moment, until the fury has passed by.
For behold, the LORD comes out of His place to punish the people of the earth for their iniquity; the earth also shall reveal her blood, and shall no more cover her dead.