And this, is the law of the guilt-bearer,—most holy, it is!
In the place where they slay the ascending-sacrifice, shall they slay the guilt-bearer; and, the blood thereof, shall one dash against the altar, round about;
and, as for all the fat thereof, one shall bring near therefrom,—the fat-tail, and the fat that covereth the inwards;
and the two kidneys, with the fat that is upon them, which is upon the loins,—and the caul upon the liver, up to the kidneys, shall he remove it.
And the priest shall make a perfume with them at the altar, an altar-flame unto Yahweh—a guilt-bearer, it is,
Any male among the priests, may eat thereof,—in a holy place, shall it be eaten, most holy, it is.
As the sin-bearer, so the guilt-bearer,—one law, for them,—the priest who maketh a propitiatory-covering, therewith,—to him, shall it belong,
And, as for the priest who bringeth near the ascending-sacrifice of any man, the skin of the ascending-sacrifice which he hath brought near, to the priest himself, shall it belong.
And as for any meal-offering that may be baked in an oven, or anything that hath been prepared in a boiler or on a girdle, to the priest that bringeth it near—to him, shall it belong,
And, as for any meal-offering overflowed with oil or dry,—to all the sons of Aaron, shall it belong, to one as much as to another.
And, this, is the law of the peace-offering which one may bring near unto Yahweh.
If, for thanksgiving, he bring it near, then shall he bring near, with the thanksgiving sacrifice perforated cakes unleavened, overflowed with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil,—and of fine flour moistened, perforated cakes overflowed with oil.
With perforated cakes of leavened bread, shall he bring near his oblation, with his peace-offering of thanksgiving,
Then shall he bring near therefrom one of each oblation, a heave-offering unto Yahweh,—to the priest who dasheth [against the altar] the blood of the peace-offering—to him, shall it belong.
But, as for the flesh of his peace-offering of thanksgiving, on the day of bringing it near, shall it be eaten,—he shall not leave thereof until morning,
But, if, a vow or a freewill offering, be his sacrifice of oblation, in the day he bringeth near his sacrifice, shall it be eaten, and on the morrow, then may the remainder thereof, be eaten;
but as for the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice, on the third day—in fire, shall it be consumed.
And, if any of the flesh of his peace-offering, be at all eaten, on the third day, he that brought it near [shall not be accepted] it shall not be reckoned to him, unclean, shall it be,—and the person who shall eat thereof, shall bear his iniquity.
And, the flesh that toucheth anything unclean, shall not be eaten, in fire, shall it be consumed,—but, as for the [other] flesh, any one who is clean, may eat flesh.
But as for the person who shall eat flesh from the peace-offering, which pertaineth unto Yahweh, while his uncleanness is on him, then shall that person be cut off from among his kinsfolk.
Yea, as for, any person, whensoever he shall touch anything unclean—the uncleanness of man or an unclean beast, or any unclean disgusting thing,—and then eateth of the flesh of a peace-offering that pertaineth unto Yahweh, then shall that person be cut off from among his kinsfolk.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying—
Speak unto the sons of Israel, saying,—No fat, of ox or sheep or goat, shall ye eat:
and though the fat of what dieth of itself and the fat of that which has been torn in pieces, may be used for any other service, yet shall ye, in nowise eat it.
Nay, as touching any one who eateth the fat of any beast, wherefrom he might bring near an altar-flame unto Yahweh, then shall the person that eateth be cut off from among his kinsfolk.
And no manner of blood, shall ye eat, in any of your dwellings,—whether of bird or of beast:
as touching any person who eateth any manner of blood, then shall that person be cut off from among his kinsfolk.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto the sons of Israel saying,—He that offereth his peace-offering unto Yahweh, shall bring in his own oblation unto Yahweh out of his peace-offering:
his own hands shall bring in the altar-flames of Yahweh,—the fat with the breast, he shall bring it in, the breast, to wave it as a wave-offering before Yahweh.
Then shall the priest make a perfume with the fat at the altar,—and the breast shall be for Aaron and for his sons.
But, the right shoulder, shall ye give as a heave-offering, unto the priest,—from among your peace-offerings
he that bringeth near the blood of the peace-offerings and the fat from among the sons of Aaron, to him, shall belong the right shoulder for a portion.
For, the wave-breast and the heave-shoulder, have I taken of the sons of Israel, out of their peace-offerings,—and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons as an age-abiding statute, from the sons of Israel.
This, is what pertaineth to the anointing of Aaron and to the anointing of his sons out of the altar-flames of Yahweh,—[granted] in the day when he brought them near, to minister as priests unto Yahweh:
which Yahweh commanded to give them in the day when he anointed them, from among the sons of Israel,—an age-abiding statute to their generations.
This is the law—for the ascending-sacrifice, for the meal-offering, and for the sin-bearer, and for the guilt-bearer,—and for the installation-offerings, and for the peace-offering:
which Yahweh commanded Moses in Mount Sinai,—in the day when he commanded the sons of Israel to bring near their oblations unto Yahweh in the desert of Sinai.