A man who hardens his neck when reproved shall be suddenly broken, and there will be no healing.
When the righteous increase, the people rejoice; but when the wicked rule, the people mourn.
Whoever loves wisdom rejoices his father; but a companion of harlots wastes wealth.
The king establishes the land by judgment; but he taking bribes tears it down.
A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
In the sin of an evil man there is a snare; but the righteous sings and rejoices.
The righteous knows the plea of the poor; the wicked cares not to know it.
Scornful men bring a city into a snare, but the wise turn away wrath.
If a wise man contends with a foolish man, whether he rages or laughs, there is no rest.
Men of blood hate the upright; but the just seek his soul.
A fool speaks all his mind; but a wise one keeps it in until afterwards.
If a ruler listens to lies, all his servants are wicked.
The poor and the deceitful man meet together; the LORD gives light to the eyes of both.
A king who truly judges the weak, his throne shall be established forever.
The rod and rebuke give wisdom, but a boy sent off causes shame to his mother.
When the wicked are multiplied, sin increases; but the righteous shall see their fall.
Correct your son, and he shall give you rest; yea, he shall give delight to your soul.
Where there is no wisdom, the people perish; but he who keeps the law, he is blessed.
A servant will not be corrected by words, for though he understands, he will not answer.
Do you see a man hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
He pampering his servant from youth, that one in his after days shall his successor.
An angry man stirs up fighting, and a furious man abounds in sin.
A man's pride shall bring him low; but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit.
He who shares with a thief hates his own soul; he hears an oath and does not tell.
The fear of man brings a snare, but whoever puts his trust in the LORD shall be safe.
Many seek the ruler's favor; but each man's judgment comes from the LORD.
An unjust man is a hateful thing to the just; and he who is upright in the way is hateful to the wicked.