The burden against the valley of vision. What ails you now, that you have gone up to the housetops?
Crashings fill the noisy city, the joyous city Your slain ones are not slain with the sword, nor dead in battle.
All your rulers fled together; they were bound without the bow; all found in you are bound together; they have fled from afar.
Therefore I said, Look away from me; I will weep bitterly; do not hurry to comfort me because of the ruin of the daughter of my people.
For it is a day of trouble, and of trampling down, and of doubt by the LORD God of hosts in the valley of vision, breaking down the walls, and of crying to the mountain.
And Persia carried the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen, and Kir uncovered the shield.
And it happened, your choicest valleys were full of chariots; and the horsemen surely set in order at the gate.
And he removed Judah's covering, and you looked in that day to the armor of the house of the forest.
You have seen also the breaks in the city of David, that they are many; and you gathered the waters of the lower pool.
And you have counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you have broken down the houses to fortify the wall.
You also made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool; but you have not looked to its Maker, nor see Him who formed it long ago.
And in that day the LORD of hosts called to weeping and mourning, and to baldness, and to girding with sackcloth.
Then, lo, joy and gladness, slaying oxen and killing sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine, saying, Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die!
And it was revealed in my ears by the LORD of hosts, Surely this iniquity shall not be purged from you until you die, says the Lord Jehovah of hosts.
So says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, Go, go up to this treasurer, to Shebna who is over the house. Say,
What is to you here? And who is here to you, that you have carved out a tomb for yourself here, as one who cuts himself out a tomb on high, who cuts out a home for himself in a rock?
Behold, the LORD will hurl you with a hurling, O man, and grasps you with a grasping.
Whirling, He will whirl you like a ball into a large country; there you shall die, and there are the chariots of your glory, the shame of your lord's house.
And I will drive you from your position, and he will pull you from your station.
And in that day it shall be, even I will call My servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah.
and I will clothe him with your robe, and will fasten your girdle on him, and I will give your authority into his hand. And he shall be a father to the people of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah.
And the key of the house of David I will lay on his shoulder; so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open.
And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be for a glorious throne to his father's house.
And they shall hang on him all the glory of his father's house, the offspring and the offshoots, all small vessels, from the vessels of cups, even to all the vessels of jars.
In that day, says the LORD of hosts, the nail that is fastened in the sure place shall be removed, and be cut down, and fall. And the burden that was on it shall be cut off. The LORD has spoken.