Unto the messenger of the assembly, in Ephesus, write:—These things, saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, he that walketh in the midst of the seven lamps of gold:
I know thy works, and thy toil, and endurance, and that thou canst not bear bad men, and thou hast tried them who were affirming themselves to be apostles, and they were not, and hast found them false;
And thou hast, endurance, and hast borne for the sake of my name, and hast not grown weary.
Nevertheless, I have against thee, that, thy first love, thou hast left.
Remember, therefore, whence thou hast fallen, and repent, and do, thy first works; otherwise, I come unto thee, and will remove thy lamp out of its place, except thou repent.
But, this, thou hast, that thou hatest the works of the Nicolaitanes, which, I also, hate.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what, the Spirit, is saying unto the assemblies. Unto him that overcometh—I will give, unto him, to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.
And, unto the messenger of the assembly, in Smyrna, write:—These things, saith the first and the last, who became dead, and lived:
I know thy tribulation, and destitution, nevertheless, thou art, rich, and the profane speech from among them who affirm that they themselves are, Jews, and they are not, but a synagogue of Satan.
Do not fear the things which thou art about to suffer. Lo! the adversary is about to cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, and may have tribulation ten days. Become thou faithful until death, and I will give thee the crown of life.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what, the Spirit, is saying unto the assemblies. He that overcometh, shall in nowise be injured by reason of the second death.
And, unto the messenger of the assembly, in Pergamum, write:—These things, saith he that hath the sharp, two-edged sword:
I know where thou dwellest, where, the throne of Satan, is; and thou art holding fast my name, and didst not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful one, who was killed near you, where, Satan, dwelleth.
Nevertheless, I have against thee, a few things,—that thou hast there, such as hold fast the teaching of Balaam,—who went on to teach Balak to throw a cause of stumbling before the sons of Israel, to eat idol-sacrifices and to commit lewdness:
thus, even, thou, hast such as hold fast the teaching of the Nicolaitanes, in like manner.
Repent, therefore, otherwise, I come unto thee speedily,—and will fight against them, with the sword of my mouth.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what, the Spirit, is saying unto the assemblies. Unto him that overcometh, I will give, unto him, of the hidden manna, and I will give unto him a white stone, and, upon the stone, a new name written, which, no one, knoweth, save he that receiveth it.
And, unto the messenger of the assembly, in Thyatira, write:—These things, saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet like unto glowing copper:
I know thy works, and thy love, and faith, and ministry, and endurance,—and that, thy last works, are more than the first.
Nevertheless, I have against thee, that thou sufferest the woman Jezebel, she who calleth herself a prophetess, and is teaching and leading astray my own servants to commit lewdness and to eat idol-sacrifices;
and I gave her time, that she might repent, and she willeth not to repent out of her lewdness.
Lo! I cast her into a bed, and them who are committing adultery with her, into great tribulation,—except they repent out of her works;
and, her children, will I slay with death;—and all the assemblies shall get to know, that, I, am he that searcheth reins and hearts, and will give unto you, each one, according to your works.
But, unto you, I say,—the rest who are in Thyatira, as many as have not this teaching, such as have not come to know the deep things of Satan, as they say, I do not cast upon you any other burden;
nevertheless, what ye have, hold fast, till I shall have come.
And, he that overcometh, and keepeth throughout my works, I will, give unto him, authority over the nations;
and he shall shepherd them with a sceptre of iron,—as, vessels of earthenware, are dashed in pieces:—as, I also, have received from my Father.
And I will give unto him the morning star.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what, the Spirit, is saying unto the assemblies.