In thee, O Jehovah, do I take refuge. Let me never be put to shame. Deliver me in thy righteousness.
Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be thou to me a strong rock, a house of defense to save me.
For thou are my rock and my fortress. Therefore for thy name's sake lead me and guide me.
Pluck me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me, for thou are my stronghold.
Into thy hand I commend my spirit. Thou have redeemed me, O Jehovah, thou God of truth.
I hate those who regard lying vanities, but I trust in Jehovah.
I will be glad and rejoice in thy loving kindness, for thou have seen my affliction. Thou have known my soul in adversities,
and thou have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy. Thou have set my feet in a large place.
Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah, for I am in distress. My eye wastes away with grief, yea, my soul and my body.
For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing. My strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones are wasted away.
I have become a reproach because of all my adversaries, yea, to my neighbors exceedingly, and a fear to my acquaintances. Those who saw me outside fled from me.
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind. I am like a broken vessel.
For I have heard the slander of many. Fear was on every side, while they took counsel together against me. They devised to take away my life.
But I trusted in thee, O Jehovah. I said, Thou are my God.
My times are in thy hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant. Save me in thy loving kindness.
Let me not be put to shame, O Jehovah, for I have called upon thee. Let the wicked be put to shame. Let them be silent in Sheol.
Let the lying lips be dumb, which speak against the righteous man insolently, with pride and contempt.
O how great is thy goodness, which thou have laid up for those who fear thee, which thou have wrought for those who take refuge in thee before the sons of men!
In the covert of thy presence thou will hide them from the plotting of man. Thou will keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be Jehovah, for he has shown me his marvelous loving kindness in a strong city.
As for me, I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes. Nevertheless thou heard the voice of my supplications when I cried to thee.
O love Jehovah, all ye his sanctified. Jehovah preserves the faithful, and plentifully repays him who deals proudly.
Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all ye who hope in Jehovah.