These are the proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out:
The glory of God is to conceal a thing, but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.
The heavens for height, and the earth for depth, but the heart of kings is unsearchable.
Take away the dross from the silver, and a vessel of the refiner's shall appear.
Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne is established in righteousness.
Do not honor yourself before a king, and do not stand in the place of the great.
For it is better he shall say to you, Come up here! than that you should be put lower before a noble whom your eyes have seen.
Do not go out to fight hastily, lest you know not what to do in the end of it, when your neighbor has put you to shame?
Contend for your cause with your neighbor, and do not uncover the secret of another,
lest he who hears put you to shame, and your slander have no end.
A word rightly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.
As a ring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover on a hearing ear.
Like the cold of snow in harvest time, so is a faithful messenger to those sending him, for he refreshes the soul of his masters.
A man boasting himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind, but with no rain.
In being slow to anger, a ruler is persuaded; and a soft tongue shatters the bone.
Have you found honey? Eat only your fill, lest you be satiated, and vomit it out.
Make your foot rare from your neighbor's house, lest he be full of you and hate you.
A man who gives false witness against his neighbor is a maul, and a sword and a sharp arrow.
Confidence in a treacherous man in time of distress is like a bad tooth and a slipping foot.
As he who takes away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar on soda, so is he who sings songs on an evil heart.
If your hater is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,
for you shall heap coals of fire on his head, and Jehovah shall reward you.
The north wind brings rain, so does a secret tongue an angry face.
It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than to share a house with a contentious woman.
Like cold waters to a weary soul, so is a good report from a far country.
The righteous falling down before the wicked is like a fouled fountain and a ruined spring.
It is not good to eat much honey, and to search out their glory is not glory.
A man to whom there is no control to his spirit is like a broken down city without a wall.