Seeing, indeed, that, many, had taken in hand to re-arrange for themselves a narrative, concerning the facts which have been fully confirmed amongst us,—
according as they who from the beginning became eye-witnesses and attendants of the Word delivered them unto us,
it seemed good, even to me, having closely traced from the outset all things accurately, to write unto thee, in order, most excellent Theophilus:
that, as touching the matters which thou hadst been taught by word of mouth, thou mightest obtain full knowledge, of the certainty.
It came to pass, in the days of Herod, king of Judaea, that there was a certain priest, by name Zachariah, of the daily course of Abia; and that he had a wife of the daughters of Aaron, and, her name, was Elizabeth.
Now they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and righteous appointments of the Lord, blameless;
and they had no child, inasmuch as Elizabeth was barren, and, both, had become, advanced in their days.
But it came to pass, as he was doing priestly service in the order of his daily course, before God,
according to the custom of his priesthood, it fell to his lot to offer incense, entering into the Temple of the Lord;
and, all the throng of the people, was praying outside, at the hour of the incense offering.
And there appeared unto him a messenger of the Lord, standing on the right hand of the altar of incense;
and Zachariah was troubled when he beheld, and, fear, fell upon him.
But the messenger said unto him—Do not fear, Zachariah! Inasmuch as thy supplication hath been hearkened to,—and, thy wife Elizabeth, shall bring forth a son to thee, and thou shalt call his name, John;
And there shall be joy to thee and exulting, and, many, over his birth, shall rejoice;
For he shall be great before the Lord, and, wine and strong drink, in nowise may he drink, and, with Holy Spirit, shall he be filled, already, from his mother’s womb;
And, many of the Sons of Israel, shall he turn towards the Lord their God;
And, he, shall go before him, in the spirit and power of Elijah,—To turn the hearts of fathers unto children, and the unyielding, into the prudence of the righteous, and to prepare, for the Lord, a people made ready.
And Zachariah said unto the messenger—Whereby, shall I know this? for, I, am, aged, and, my wife, advanced in her days.
And the messenger, answering, said unto him—I, am Gabriel,—he that standeth near before God; and have been sent forth to speak unto thee, and to deliver the joyful message unto thee, as touching these things.
And lo! thou shalt be silent, and not able to speak until the day when these things shall come to pass; because thou didst not believe in my words,—the which shall be fulfilled for their season.
And the people were expecting Zachariah, and began to marvel that he should tarry in the Temple;
and when he came forth he was not able to speak unto them, and they perceived that, a vision, he had seen in the Temple,—and, he, continued making signs unto them, and remained dumb.
And it came to pass, when the days of his public ministration were fulfilled, that he departed unto his house.
And, after these days, Elizabeth his wife conceived, and she disguised herself five months, saying—
Thus, for me, hath the Lord wrought,—in the days in which he looked upon me, to take away my reproach among men.
Now, in the sixth month, was the messenger Gabriel sent forth from God, into a city of Galilee, the name of which was Nazareth,—
unto a virgin, betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and, the name of the virgin, was, Mary;
and entering in unto her, he said—Joy to thee, favoured one! The Lord, be with thee!
And, she, at the word, was greatly troubled, and began to deliberate, of what kind, this salutation, might be.
And the messenger said unto her—Do not fear, Mary, for thou hast found favour with God,—
And lo! thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name, Jesus:
the same, shall be great, and, Son of the Most High, shall be called, and the Lord God, will give unto him, the throne of David his father,—
And he shall reign over the house of Jacob, unto the ages, and, of his kingdom, there shall be, no end.
But Mary said unto the messenger—How, shall this thing be, seeing that, a man, I know not?
And answering, the messenger said unto her—The Holy Spirit, shall come upon thee, and, the power of the Most High, shall overshadow thee; wherefore, even that which is to be born, Holy, shall be called, Son of God.
And lo! Elizabeth thy kinswoman, even she, hath conceived a son in, her old-age;—and, this month, is, the sixth, to her, the so-called barren one;
Because no declaration from God, shall be void of power.
And Mary said—Lo! the handmaid of the Lord! Might it come to pass unto me, according to thy declaration. And the messenger departed from her.
And Mary, arising, in these days, journeyed into the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah,—
and entered into the house of Zachariah, and saluted Elizabeth.
And it came to pass that, as Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leapt in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with Holy Spirit,—
and lifted up her voice with loud exclamation, and said—Blessed, art thou among women, and, blessed, is the fruit of thy womb;
And, whence, to me is, this, That the mother of my Lord should come, unto me?
For lo! as the sound of thy salutation came into mine ears, the babe in my womb, leapt in exultation.
And, happy, is she who hath believed, that there shall be a perfecting of the things which have been spoken to her from the Lord!
And Mary said—My soul doth magnify the Lord,
And my spirit hath exulted upon God my saviour;
Because he hath looked upon the humbling of his handmaid; for lo! from the present time, all the generations, will pronounce me happy.
Because he that is mighty hath done for me great things, and, holy, is his name;
And his mercy is unto generations and generations, to them who revere him;
He hath wrought strength with his arm, He hath scattered men arrogant in the intention of their heart;
He hath deposed potentates from thrones, and uplifted the lowly;
The hungry, hath he filled with good things, and, the wealthy, hath he sent empty away;
He hath laid hold of Israel his servant, to be mindful of mercies:
According as he spake unto our fathers,—To Abraham, and to his seed,—Unto times age-abiding.
And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned unto her house.
And, to Elizabeth, was the time fulfilled, that she should be bringing forth,—and she gave birth to a son.
And her neighbours and kinsfolk heard, that the Lord had magnified his mercy with her, and they were rejoicing with her.
And it came to pass, on the eighth day, that they came to circumcise the child, and were calling it, after the name of its father, Zachariah.
And his mother, answering, said—Nay! but he shall be called, John.
And they said unto her—There is, no one from among thy kindred, who is called by this name!
And they began making signs unto his father, as to what he might be wishing it to be called.
And, asking for a small tablet, he wrote, saying—John, is his name! and they marvelled all.
And his mouth was opened instantly, and his tongue [loosed], and he began to speak, blessing, God.
And fear came upon all the neighbours themselves; and, throughout all the hill-country of Judaea, were all these matters being much talked of;
and all who heard laid [them] up in their hearts, saying—What then shall his child be? for, even the hand of the Lord, was with him.
And, Zachariah his father, was filled with Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying:—
Blessed, be the Lord, the God of Israel! Because he hath visited and wrought redemption for his people,
And hath raised up a horn of salvation for us, In the house of David his servant:
According as he hath spoken by mouth of his holy ancient prophets,—
Of salvation from among our foes, and out of the hand of all them that hate us:
To perform mercy with our fathers, and to be mindful of his holy covenant,—
The oath which he sware unto Abraham our father, To grant us,
without fear, from the hand of enemies rescued, to be rendering divine service unto him,
in lovingkindness and righteousness before him, all our days.
And, even thou, child, prophet of the Most High, shalt be called,—for thou shall march on before the Lord, to prepare his ways,
Giving a knowledge of salvation unto his people, by a remission of their sins.
Because of the yearning compassion of the mercy of our God, wherein shall visit us a day-dawn from on high,—
To shine on them who, in the darkness and shade of death, are sitting, to guide our feet into a way of peace.
And, the child, went on growing, and being strengthened in spirit, and was in the deserts, until the day he was pointed out unto Israel.