And he made an altar of bronze. Twenty cubits was the length of it, and twenty cubits its breadth, and ten cubits its height.
And He cast a sea of melted bronze, ten cubits from brim to brim. It was round, and five cubits was its height. And a line of thirty cubits went around it.
And under it was the shape of oxen, under it and all around it for ten cubits, going all around the sea. Two rows of oxen were cast when it was cast.
It stood on twelve oxen, three facing the north, and three facing the west, and three facing the south, and three facing the east. And the sea was set above on them, and all their hinder parts were inward.
And its thickness was a handbreadth, and its brim like the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies. It received and held three thousand baths.
He also made ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five on the left, to wash in them. They washed in them such things as they offered for the burnt offering. But the sea was for the priests to wash in.
And he made ten lampstands of gold according to their form, and set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.
And He made ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left. And he made a hundred basins of gold.
And he made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid their doors with bronze.
And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, over against the south.
And Hiram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basins. And Hiram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for the house of God:
the two pillars, and the bowls, and the capitals on the tops of the two pillars, and the two wreaths to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the top of the pillars,
and four hundred pomegranates on the two wreaths, two rows of pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the two bowls of the capitals on the pillars.
He also made bases, and he made lavers on the bases;
and one sea, and twelve oxen under it.
And Hiram made the pots, and the shovels, and the flesh-hooks, and all their vessels of burnished bronze for king Solomon for the house of the LORD.
In the plain of Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredathah.
And Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance. For the weight of the bronze could not be found out.
And Solomon made all the vessels for the house of God, and the golden altar, and the tables on which the showbread was set;
and the lampstands of pure gold with their lamps, so that they should burn according to the law before the holy place;
and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs of gold, perfect gold;
and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and the censers, of pure gold; and the entrance of the house, the inner doors of it for the Holy of Holies, and the doors of the house of the temple, of gold.