And he entered again into a synagogue, and there-was there, a man having, his hand, withered;
and they were narrowly watching him, whether, on the Sabbath, he would cure him, that they might accuse him.
And he saith unto the man who hath his hand withered, Arise into the midst!
and saith unto them—Is it allowed, on the Sabbath, to do good, or to do evil? To, save, life, or, to slay? but they remained silent.
And, looking round upon them with anger, being at the same time grieved on account of the hardening of their heart, he saith unto the man—Stretch forth thy hand! and he stretched it forth, and his hand, was restored.
And, the Pharisees, going out straightway with the Herodians, were giving counsel against him, that they should, destroy, him.
And, Jesus, with his disciples, retired unto the sea; and, a great throng from Galilee, followed, also from Judaea,
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and beyond the Jordan, and around Tyre and Zidon, a great throng, hearing whatsoever things he was doing, came unto him.
And he spake unto his disciples that a little boat might attend him, because of the multitude,—that they might not be pressing upon him.
For he cured many, so that they were besieging him, that they might touch him—as many as had plagues;
and the impure spirits, as soon as they beheld him, were falling down to him, and crying aloud, while he was speaking, Thou, art the Son of God!
and sternly was he rebuking them, lest they should make him manifest.
And he goeth up into the mountain and calleth near whom, he, pleased,—and they went away unto him;
and he appointed a twelve, whom also he named, Apostles,—that they might be with him, and that he might be sending them forth to make proclamation,
and to have authority to cast out the demons;
and he appointed the twelve (and imposed a name on Simon—) Peter,
and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James (and imposed on them a name—Boanerges, that is, sons of thunder);
and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the zealot;
and Judas Iscariot, who also delivered him up. And he cometh into a house;
and the multitude come together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.
And they who were near to him, hearing of it, went out to secure him,—for they were saying—He is beside himself!
And, the Scribes who from Jerusalem had come down, were saying—He hath, Beelzebul; and—In the ruler of the demons, casteth he out the demons.
And, calling them near, in parables, began he to say unto them—How can, Satan, cast, Satan out?
And, if a kingdom against itself be divided, that kingdom cannot be made to stand;
And, if a house against itself be divided, the house shall be unable to stand;
And, if, Satan, hath risen up against himself, and become divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end.
But, no one is able into the house of the mighty one to enter, and, his spoils, to carry off, unless, first the mighty one, he bind, and, then his house, will he plunder!
Verily, I say unto you—All things shall be forgiven unto the sons of men,—the sins and the profanities wherewithal they shall profane;
But, whosoever shall revile against the Holy Spirit, hath no forgiveness, unto times age-abiding,—but is guilty of an age-abiding sin:
because they were saying—An impure spirit, he hath!
And there come his mother and his brethren, and, standing, outside, they sent unto him, calling him.
And there was sitting around him a multitude, and they say unto him—Lo! thy mother and thy brethren, outside, are seeking thee!
And, answering them, he saith—Who are my mother and my brethren?
And, looking around on them who, about him, in a circle, were sitting, he saith, See! my mother and my brethren!
Whosoever shall do the will of God, the same, is my brother and sister and mother.