Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy, [our] brother, unto Philemon, our dearly beloved and fellowlabourer,
And to [our] beloved [sister], Apphia and Archippus, our fellowsoldier and to the church in thy house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers,
hearing of thy charity and faith, which thou hast in the Lord Jesus and toward all saints;
that the communication of thy faith may become effectual for the knowledge of all the good that is in you by Christ Jesus.
For we have great joy and consolation in thy charity because the bowels of the saints have been refreshed by thee, brother.
Therefore, though I might be very bold in Christ to command thee that which is expedient,
yet for the sake of charity I rather beseech [thee], being such a one as Paul the aged and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds,
who in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now is profitable to thee and to me,
whom I send again unto thee; therefore, receive him, as you would receive me.
I desired to retain him with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel,
but I did not want to do anything without thy counsel, that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.
Perhaps for this, he departed from you for a season, that thou should have him again forever,
not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, especially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord.
If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.
If he has wronged thee or owes [thee] anything, put that on my account;
I Paul have written [it] with my own hand, I will repay [it]; albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides.
Therefore, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord, that thou might refresh my heart in the Lord.
Having confidence in thy obedience, I have written unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say.
In the same manner prepare me also a lodging; for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.
Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus, salutes thee.
Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [be] with your spirit. Amen.: