Then when the Lord knew that the Pharisees heard that Jesus made more disciples and baptized more than John
(though truly Jesus Himself did not baptize, but His disciples),
He left Judea and went away into Galilee again.
And it was needful for Him to pass through Samaria.
And He came to a Samaritan city called Sychar, near the piece of land Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
And Jacob's fountain was there. Then being wearied by the journey, Jesus sat thus on the fountain. It was about the sixth hour.
A woman came out of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give Me some to drink.
For His disciples had gone away into the city that they might buy provisions.
Then the Samaritan woman said to Him, How do you, being a Jew, ask to drink from me, I being a Samaritan woman? For Jews do not associate with Samaritans.
Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God, and who is the One saying to you, Give Me to drink, you would have asked Him, and He would give you living water.
The woman said to Him, Sir, you have no vessel, and the well is deep. From where then do you have living water?
Are you greater than our father Jacob who gave us the well, and he and his sons and his livestock drank out of it?
Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone drinking of this water will thirst again;
but whoever may drink of the water which I will give him will never ever thirst, but the water which I will give to him will become a fountain of water in him, springing up into everlasting life.
The woman said to Him, Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw.
Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband and come here.
And the woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, Well did you say, I have no husband.
For you have had five husbands, and now he whom you have is not your husband. You have spoken this truly.
The woman said to Him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.
Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you say that in Jerusalem is the place where it is necessary to worship.
Jesus said to her, Woman, believe Me that an hour is coming when you will worship the Father neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem.
You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is of the Jews.
But an hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father also seeks such ones that worship Him.
God is a spirit, and the ones worshiping Him must worship in spirit and truth.
The woman said to Him, I know that Messiah is coming, the One called Christ. When that One comes, He will announce to us all things.
Jesus said to her, I AM, the One speaking to you.
And on this, His disciples came and marveled that He was speaking with a woman. However, no one said, What do you seek? Or, Why do You speak with her?
Then the woman left her waterpot and went away into the city and said to the men,
Come, see a Man who told me all things, whatever I did. Is this One not the Christ?
Therefore, they went out of the city and came to Him.
But in the meantime the disciples asked Him, saying, Rabbi, eat?
But He said to them, I have food to eat which you do not know.
Then the disciples said to one another, No one brought Him food to eat?
Jesus said to them, My food is that I should do the will of Him who sent Me, and that I may finish His work.
Do you do not say, It is yet four months and the harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and behold the fields, for they are already white to harvest.
And the one reaping receives reward, and gathers fruit to everlasting life, so that both the one sowing and the one reaping may rejoice together.
For in this the word is true, that another is the one sowing, and another the one reaping.
I sent you to reap what you have not labored over. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.
And many of the Samaritans out of that city believed into Him, because of the word of the woman testifying, He told me all things, whatever I did.
Then as the Samaritans came to Him, they asked Him to remain with them. And He remained there two days.
And many more believed through His word.
And they said to the woman, We no longer believe because of your saying; for we ourselves have heard, and we know that this One is truly the Savior of the world, the Christ.
But after the two days, He went out from there, and went away into Galilee.
For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own native place.
Therefore, when He came into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, seeing all things which He did in Jerusalem at the Feast. For they also went to the Feast.
Then Jesus came again to Cana of Galilee where He made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick in Capernaum.
Hearing that Jesus was coming from Judea into Galilee, this one went out to Him and asked Him that He would come and heal his son, for he was about to die.
Then Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not at all believe.
The nobleman said to Him, Sir, come down before my child dies.
Jesus said to him, Go! Your son lives. And the man believed the word which Jesus said to him, and went away.
But already, as he was going down, his slaves met him and reported, saying, Your child lives.
He then asked from them the hour in which he had gotten better. And they said to him, Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him.
Then the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives. And he himself, and his whole household, believed.
Again, this second miracle Jesus did, coming from Judea into Galilee.