James, [a] servant of God and of the Lord Jesus, the Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting.
My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse trials,
knowing that the proving of your faith works patience,
and the patience finishes the work, that ye may be perfect and entire, not lacking in anything.
And if any of you lacks wisdom, let them ask of God (who gives abundantly to all, and without reproach), and it shall be given them.
But ask in faith, not doubting anything. For [he] that doubts is like the wave of the sea which is driven of the wind and is tossed from one side to another.
For let not such [a] man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord.
The double minded man [is] unstable in all his ways.
Let the brother of low degree rejoice in his high status;
and he who is rich, in his low status, because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away.
For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withers the grass, and its flower falls, and the beautiful appearance of it perishes: so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways.
Blessed is the man that [patiently] endures temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to those that love him.
Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God; for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither does he tempt anyone:
But each one is tempted, when they are drawn away of their own lust and enticed.
Then when lust has conceived, it brings forth sin; and sin, when it is finished, brings forth death.
Do not err, my beloved brethren.
Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness neither shadow of turning.
He, of his own will, has begotten us with the word of truth, that we should be the firstfruits of his creatures.
Therefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath;
for the wrath of man does not work the righteousness of God.
So then, leave all uncleanness and remains of malice and receive with meekness the word ingested within you, which is able to cause your souls to be saved.
But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves.
For if anyone hears the word and does not put it into practice, this same is like unto the man beholding his natural face in a mirror:
For he considered himself and went his way and in one hour forgot what he was like.
But whosoever has looked [attentively] into the perfect law of liberty and has persevered [in it], not being a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, the same shall be blessed in their deed.
If anyone among you thinks to be religious and does not bridle their tongue, but deceives his own heart, his religion [is] vain.
The pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their tribulation [and] to keep thyself unspotted from this world.: