And it happened when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking to all the people all the words of the LORD their God, for which the LORD their God had sent him to them, all these words,
Azariah the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the proud men, spoke then, saying to Jeremiah, You speak falsely! The LORD our God has not sent you to say, Do not go to Egypt to live there.
But Baruch the son of Neriah is inciting you against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they might put us to death and to exile us to Babylon.
So Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the commanders of the forces, and all the people, did not obey the voice of the LORD to live in the land of Judah.
But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the commanders of the forces, took all the remnant of Judah who had returned from all the nations (where they had been driven) to dwell in the land of Judah;
men, and women, and children, and the king's daughters, and every person that Nebu-zaradan the chief of the executioners had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch the son of Neriah.
So they came into the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of the LORD. So they came to Tahpanhes.
And the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying,
Take great stones to your hand, and hide them in the clay in the brick-kiln which is at the entrance to Pharaoh's house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah.
And say to them, So says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will send and take Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, My servant, and will set his throne on these stones that I have hidden. And he shall spread his royal pavilion over them.
And when he comes, he shall strike the land of Egypt. And whoever is for death shall go to death; and whoever for captivity, into captivity; and whoever for the sword, to the sword.
And I will kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt. And he shall burn them and exile them. And he shall adorn himself with the land of Egypt, like a shepherd puts on his robe; and he shall go out from there in peace.
He shall also break the obelisks of The House of the Sun which is in the land of Egypt; and the houses of the gods of the Egyptians he shall burn with fire.