A wise woman builds her house, but the foolish plucks it down with her hands.
He who walks in his uprightness fears the LORD, but he who is perverse in his ways despises Him.
In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride, but the lips of the wise shall keep them.
Where no cattle are, the stall is clean, but much gain is by the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness will not lie, but a false witness will speak lies.
A scorner seeks wisdom, and it is not found, but knowledge is easy to him who understands.
Go from the before a foolish man when you do not see in him the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of the wise is to understand his way, but the folly of fools is deceit.
Fools laugh at sin, but among the righteous there is favor.
The heart knows its own bitterness, and a stranger does not share in its joy.
The house of the wicked shall be overthrown, but the tent of the upright shall be blessed.
There is a way which seems right to a man, but the end of it is the ways of death.
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the end of that joy is heaviness.
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways, but a good man from himself.
The simple believes every word, but the wise man watches his step.
A wise one fears and departs from evil, but the fool rages and is sure.
He who is soon angry acts foolishly, and a man of wicked plots is hated.
The simple inherit folly, but the wise are crowned with knowledge.
The evil bow before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poor is hated even by his own neighbor, but the rich has many friends.
He who despises his neighbor sins, but he who has mercy on the poor, happy is he.
Do not those who think evil go astray? But mercy and truth shall be to those who think of good.
In all labor there is gain, but the talk of the lips tends only to poverty.
The crown of the wise is their riches of wisdom; the foolishness of fools is folly.
A true witness delivers souls, but a deceitful witness speaks lies.
In the fear of the LORD is strong hope, and His sons shall have a place of refuge.
The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life to turn aside from the snares of death.
In the multitude of people is the king's honor, but in the lack of people is the ruin of the prince.
He who is slow to wrath is of great understanding, but he who is hasty of spirit exalts folly.
A sound heart is the life of the flesh, but envy the rottenness of the bones.
He who presses the poor curses his Maker, but he who honors Him has mercy upon the poor.
The wicked is driven away in his wickedness, but the righteous has hope in his death.
Wisdom rests in the heart of him who has understanding, but among fools it is made known.
Righteousness lifts up a nation, but sin is a shame to any people.
The king's favor is toward a wise servant, but his wrath is against him who causes shame.