And it happened afterwards, even He traveled in every city and village, preaching and announcing the gospel of the kingdom of God. And the Twelve were with Him;
also certain women who were healed from evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, having been called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,
and Joanna, wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, who were ministering to Him of their possessions.
And a great crowd coming together, and those in each city coming to Him, He spoke through a parable:
The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell by the roadside and was trampled; and the birds of the heaven ate it.
And other fell on the rock; and sprouting, it dried up because of not having moisture.
And other fell in the midst of the thorns; and springing up with the thorns, they choked it.
And other fell on the good ground; and springing up, it produced fruit a hundredfold. Saying these things, He cried out, The one having ears to hear, let him hear.
And His disciples questioned Him, saying, What might this parable be?
And He said, To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest in parables, that seeing they might not see, and hearing, they might not understand. Isa. 6:9
And this is the parable: The seed is the Word of God.
And those by the roadside are those who hear, then the Devil comes and takes away the Word from their heart, lest believing they may be saved.
And those on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the Word with joy; and these have no root, who believe for a time, and in time of trial draw back.
And those falling in the thorns, these are those hearing, but under cares and riches and pleasures of life, having moved along, they are choked, and do not bear to maturity.
And those in the good ground, these are the ones who in a right and good heart, hearing the Word, they hold it and bear fruit in patience.
But no one lighting a lamp covers it with a vessel, or puts it underneath a couch, but sets it on a lampstand, that those coming in may see the light.
For nothing is hidden which will not be revealed, nor secret which will not be known and come to be revealed.
Then observe how you hear; for whoever may have, it will be given to him; and whoever may not have, even what he seems to have will be taken from him.
And His mother and His brothers came to Him, and were not able to come up with Him through the crowd.
And it was told to Him, saying Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside wishing to see You.
And answering, He said to them, My mother and My brothers are these: the ones hearing the Word of God, and doing it.
And it happened on one of the days that He and His disciples entered into a boat. And He said to them, Let us go over to the other side of the lake. And they put out to sea.
And as they sailed He fell asleep. And a storm of wind came onto the lake, and they were being filled and were in danger.
And coming up they awakened Him, saying, Master! Master! We are perishing! And being aroused, He rebuked the wind and the roughness of the water; and they ceased, and there was a calm.
And He said to them, Where is your faith? And being afraid, they marveled, saying to one another, Who then is this One, that He commands even the wind and the water, and they obey Him?
And they sailed down to the country of the Gadarenes, which is across from Galilee.
And He going out onto the land, a certain man out of the city met Him, who had demons from a long time. (And he put no garment on; and he did not stay in a house, but among the tombs).
And seeing Jesus, and crying out, he fell down before Him, and with a loud voice said, What to me and to You, Jesus, Son of God the Most High? I beg You, do not torment me.
For He charged the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For many times it had seized him, and he was bound with chains and fetters, being guarded. And tearing apart the bonds, he was driven by the demons into the deserted places .
And Jesus asked him, saying, What is your name? And he said, Legion (because many demons entered into him).
And they begged Him that He not order them to go away into the abyss.
And there was a herd of many pigs feeding there in the mount. And they begged Him that He would allow them to enter into those. And He allowed them.
And coming out from the man, the demons entered into the pigs; and the herd rushed down the cliff into the lake and was choked.
And seeing the thing, those feeding the pigs fled. And leaving, they reported to the city and to the farms.
And they went out to see the thing happening, and came to Jesus. And they found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and of sound mind. And they were afraid.
And those seeing also related to them how the demon-possessed one was healed.
And all the multitude of the neighborhood of the Gadarenes were seized with a great fear. And they asked Him to depart from them. And entering into the boat, He returned.
And the man from whom the demons had gone out begged Him, desiring to be with Him. But Jesus sent him away, saying,
Go back to your house and tell what God did to you. And he went away proclaiming through all the city what things Jesus did to him.
And it happened as Jesus returned, the crowd gladly received Him, for they were all waiting for Him.
And, behold, a man named Jairus came, and this one was a synagogue ruler. And falling at the feet of Jesus, he begged Him to come into his house,
because an only daughter was born to him, about twelve years old ; and she was dying. And in His going, the crowd pressed on Him.
And a woman being in a flow of blood from twelve years, who had spent her whole living on physicians, and could not be cured by anyone,
coming up behind she touched the border of His garment. And instantly the flow of her blood stopped.
And Jesus said, Who was touching Me? And all having denied, Peter and those with Him said, Master, the crowds press on You and jostle. And do You say, Who was touching Me?
But Jesus said, Someone touched Me, for I knew power had gone out from Me.
And seeing that she was not hidden, the woman came trembling and kneeled down before Him and told Him before all the people for what reason she touched Him, and how she was instantly cured.
And He said to her, Daughter, be comforted. Your faith has healed you. Go in peace.
As He was yet speaking, someone came from the synagogue ruler, saying to him, Your daughter has expired. Do not trouble the Teacher.
But hearing, Jesus answered him, saying, Do not fear; only believe and she will be healed.
And coming into the house, He did not allow anyone to enter, except Peter and James and John, and the father and mother of the child.
And all were weeping and bewailing her. But He said, Stop weeping. She has not died, but is sleeping.
And they scoffed at Him, knowing that she died.
But putting all outside, and taking hold of her hand, He called out, saying, Child, rise up!
And her spirit returned, and she rose up immediately. And He ordered something to eat be given to her.
And her parents were amazed. But He charged them to tell no one of that which occurred.