Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ.
Now, I praise you, brethren, because you remember me in all things, and keep the traditions as I delivered them to you.
But I wish you to know, that the head of every man is the Christ, and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
Every man that prays or prophesies, having his head covered, dishonors his head.
But every woman that prays or prophesies with her head uncovered, dishonors her head: for it is one and the same as if she was shaved.
For if a woman has no vail on, let her also be shaved. But if it is a shame to a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her have a vail.
For a man ought not to vail his head, because he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of the man.
For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man:
for the man was not created for the woman, but the woman for the man.
For this reason ought the woman to have a token of subjection on her head, on account of the angels.
But neither is the woman without the man, nor the: man without the woman, in the Lord.
For as the woman is of the man, so also is the man by the woman; but all things are of God.
Judge in yourselves, whether it is becoming that a woman pray to God unvailed.
Does not nature itself teach you, that, if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him?
But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her; for her hair is given to her for a vail.
But if any one seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor have the churches of God.
But I praise you not in this, which I now mention, that you come together, not for the better, but for the worse.
For, in the first place, when you come together in the church, I hear that there are schisms among you, and I partly believe it:
for there must be sects among you, that the approved may be made known among you.
When, therefore, you come together in one place, it is not to eat the Lord’s supper;
for each one, in eating, takes before another, his own supper; and one is hungry, and another is drunken.
What, have you not houses in which to eat and drink? or do you despise the church of God, and put those to shame who have nothing to eat? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not.
For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you: That the Lord Jesus, on the night in which he was delivered up, took bread;
and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said: Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for you; do this in remembrance of me.
In like manner also, the cup, after he had supped, saying: This cup is the new covenant in my blood: do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.
For as often as you eat this bread, and drink this cup, you do show the Lord’s death till he come.
Wherefore he that eats this bread, or drinks this cup of the Lord, in an improper manner, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord.
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of this bread, and drink of this cup:
for he that eats and drinks in an improper manner, eats and drinks condemnation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body.
For this reason, many among you are weak and sick, and many sleep.
For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged;
but being judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world.
Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another:
and if any one is hungry, let him eat at home, that you come not together for condemnation. But other things I will set in order when I come.