A man that hardeneth his necke when he is rebuked, shall suddenly be destroyed and can not be cured.
When the righteous are in authoritie, the people reioyce: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people sigh.
A man that loueth wisdome, reioyceth his father: but he that feedeth harlots, wasteth his substance.
A King by iudgement mainteineth ye countrey: but a man receiuing giftes, destroyeth it.
A man that flattereth his neighbour, spreadeth a net for his steps.
In the transgression of an euill man is his snare: but the righteous doeth sing and reioyce.
The righteous knoweth the cause of the poore: but the wicked regardeth not knowledge.
Scornefull men bring a citie into a snare: but wise men turne away wrath.
If a wise man contend with a foolish man, whether he be angry or laugh, there is no rest.
Bloodie men hate him that is vpright: but the iust haue care of his soule.
A foole powreth out all his minde: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterward.
Of a prince that hearkeneth to lyes, all his seruants are wicked.
The poore and the vsurer meete together, and the Lord lighteneth both their eyes.
A King that iudgeth the poore in trueth, his throne shalbe established for euer.
The rodde and correction giue wisdome: but a childe set a libertie, maketh his mother ashamed.
When the wicked are increased, transgression increaseth: but ye righteous shall see their fall.
Correct thy sonne and he will giue thee rest, and will giue pleasures to thy soule.
Where there is no vision, the people decay: but he that keepeth the Lawe, is blessed.
A seruant will not be chastised with words: though he vnderstand, yet he will not answere.
Seest thou a man hastie in his matters? there is more hope of a foole, then of him.
He that delicately bringeth vp his seruant from youth, at length he will be euen as his sone.
An angrie man stirreth vp strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.
The pride of a man shall bring him lowe: but the humble in spirit shall enioy glory.
He that is partner with a thiefe, hateth his owne soule: he heareth cursing, and declareth it not.
The feare of man bringeth a snare: but he that trusteth in the Lord, shalbe exalted.
Many doe seeke the face of the ruler: but euery mans iudgement commeth from the Lord.
A wicked man is abomination to the iust, and he that is vpright in his way, is abomination to the wicked.