And HaShem spoke unto Moses, saying:
'Speak unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the fire-pans out of the burning, and scatter thou the fire yonder; for they are become holy;
even the fire-pans of these men who have sinned at the cost of their lives, and let them be made beaten plates for a covering of the altar--for they are become holy, because they were offered before HaShem--that they may be a sign unto the children of Israel.'
And Eleazar the priest took the brazen fire-pans, which they that were burnt had offered; and they beat them out for a covering of the altar,
to be a memorial unto the children of Israel, to the end that no common man, that is not of the seed of Aaron, draw near to burn incense before HaShem; that he fare not as Korah, and as his company; as HaShem spoke unto him by the hand of Moses.
But on the morrow all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying: 'Ye have killed the people of HaShem.'
And it came to pass, when the congregation was assembled against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tent of meeting; and, behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of HaShem appeared.
And Moses and Aaron came to the front of the tent of meeting.
And HaShem spoke unto Moses, saying:
'Get you up from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment.' And they fell upon their faces.
And Moses said unto Aaron: 'Take thy fire-pan, and put fire therein from off the altar, and lay incense thereon, and carry it quickly unto the congregation, and make atonement for them; for there is wrath gone out from HaShem: the plague is begun.'
And Aaron took as Moses spoke, and ran into the midst of the assembly; and, behold, the plague was begun among the people; and he put on the incense, and made atonement for the people.
And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.
Now they that died by the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, besides them that died about the matter of Korah.
And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tent of meeting, and the plague was stayed.
And HaShem spoke unto Moses, saying:
'Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of them rods, one for each fathers' house, of all their princes according to their fathers' houses, twelve rods; thou shalt write every man's name upon his rod.
And thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi, for there shall be one rod for the head of their fathers' houses.
And thou shalt lay them up in the tent of meeting before the testimony, where I meet with you.
And it shall come to pass, that the man whom I shall choose, his rod shall bud; and I will make to cease from Me the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against you.'
And Moses spoke unto the children of Israel; and all their princes gave him rods, for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses, even twelve rods; and the rod of Aaron was among their rods.
And Moses laid up the rods before HaShem in the tent of the testimony.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses went into the tent of the testimony; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and put forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and bore ripe almonds.
And Moses brought out all the rods from before HaShem unto all the children of Israel; and they looked, and took every man his rod.
And HaShem said unto Moses: 'Put back the rod of Aaron before the testimony, to be kept there, for a token against the rebellious children; that there may be made an end of their murmurings against Me, that they die not.'
Thus did Moses; as HaShem commanded him, so did he.
And the children of Israel spoke unto Moses, saying: 'Behold, we perish, we are undone, we are all undone.
Every one that cometh near, that cometh near unto the tabernacle of HaShem, is to die; shall we wholly perish?'