In that season, went Jesus, on, the sabbath, through the cornfields,—and, his disciples, hungered, and began to pluck ears of corn, and to eat.
But, the Pharisees, observing it, said unto him, Lo! thy disciples, are doing what is not allowed to do, on sabbath.
And he said unto them, have ye never read what, David, did, when he hungered, and they who were with him? how
he entered into the house of God and, the presence-bread, did eat, which it was not, allowable, for him to eat, nor for them who were with him,—save for the priests, alone?
Or have ye not read, in the law, that, on the sabbaths, the priests, in the temple, the sabbath, profane, and are, blameless?
But I say unto you,—Something greater than the Temple, is here!
If, however, ye had known what this meaneth—Mercy, I desire, and not, sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the blameless;
For, the Son of Man, is, Lord of the Sabbath.
And, passing on from thence, he came into their synagogue;
and lo! a man having, a withered hand, and they questioned him, saying, Is it allowable, on the sabbath, to heal? that they might accuse him.
And said unto them, What man, from among yourselves, [shall there be],—Who shall have one sheep, and, if this should fall, on the sabbath, into a pit, will not lay hold of it, and raise it?
How much better, then, a man, than, a sheep? So that it is allowable, on the sabbath, nobly, to act.
Then saith he unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand! And he stretched it forth,—and it was restored, whole, as the other.
And the Pharisees, going forth, took, counsel, against him, to the end that, him, they might destroy.
But, Jesus, taking note, retired from thence,—and many followed him, and he cured them all;
and straitly charged them, lest they should make him, manifest:
that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying:—
Lo! my servant, whom I have chosen, My beloved, in whom, my soul, delighteth,—I will put my Spirit upon him, and, justice, unto the nations, will he report:
He will not strive, nor will he cry out, nor shall any hear, in the broadways, his voice:
A bruised cane, will he not break, and, a smoking wick, will he not quench,—until he urge on, justice, to victory,
And, in his name, shall nations hope.
Then they brought unto him, one demonized, blind and dumb,—and he cured him, so that the dumb did speak and see.
And all the multitudes were beside themselves, and were saying, Can, this one, be, the Son of David?
But, the Pharisees, hearing it, said, This one, doth not cast out the demons, save in Beelzebul ruler of the demons.
And, knowing their inward thoughts, he said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself, is laid waste,—and, no city or house divided against itself, will stand;
And, if, Satan, is casting, Satan, out, against himself, hath he become divided,—How then shall, his kingdom, stand?
And, if, I, in Beelzebul, am casting out the demons, In whom are, your sons, casting them out? Wherefore, they, shall be, judges of you.
But, if, in God’s Spirit, I, am casting out the demons, then doubtless hath come upon you unawares, the kingdom of God!
Or how can one enter the house of the mighty and, seize his goods, unless, first, he bind the mighty one? and, then, his house, he will plunder.
He that is no with me, is, against me,—and, he that gathereth not with me, scattereth
Wherefore, I say unto you, All sin and profane speaking, shall be forgiven unto men,—but, the speaking profanely of the Spirit, shall not be forgiven;
And, whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him,—but, whosoever shall speak against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, either in this age, or the coming.
Either make the tree good, and its fruit good, or make the tree worthless, and its fruit worthless; for, from the fruit, the tree is known.
Broods of vipers! How can ye speak, good things, being, evil? For, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh.
The good man, out of the good treasure, putteth forth, good things; and, the evil man, out of the evil treasure, putteth forth, evil things.
But I say unto you, That, every useless expression that men shall utter, they shall render, concerning it, an account, in a day of judgment;
For, by thy words, shalt thou be, justified, and, by thy words, shalt thou be condemned.
Then, answered him, certain of the Scribes and Pharisees, saying, Teacher! we desire of thee, a sign, to behold.
But, he, answering, said unto them, A wicked and adulterous generation, a sign, doth seek, and, a sign, will not be, given, it, save the sign of Jonah the prophet.
For, just as was Jonah in the belly of the sea-monster three days and three nights, so, will be the Son of Man, in the heart of the earth, three days and three nights.
Men of Nineveh, will rise up in the judgment, with this generation, and will condemn it,—because they repented into the proclamation of Jonah; and lo! something greater than Jonah, here.
The queen of the south, will arise in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it—because she came out of the ends of the earth, to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and lo! something greater than Solomon, here.
But, when the impure spirit goeth out of the man, it passeth through waterless places, seeking rest,—and findeth it not.
Then, it saith, Into my house, will I return whence I came out,—and, coming, findeth it empty [and] swept and adorned.
Then, it goeth, and taketh along with itself, seven diverse spirits, more wicked than itself,—and, entering, abideth there; and, the last state of that man, becometh, worse than the first. So, shall it be, with this, wicked, generation.
While yet he was speaking unto the multitudes, lo! his mother and brethren, were standing without, seeking to speak with him.
[And one said to him, Lo! thy mother and thy brethren, without, are standing, seeking, to speak, with thee.]
But, he, answering, said unto him that was telling him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?
And, stretching forth his hand towards his disciples, he said, Lo! my mother and my brethren!
For, whosoever shall do the will of my Father who is in the heavens, he, is my, brother, and sister, and mother.