The word which was to Jeremiah from Jehovah in the days of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, saying,
Go to the house of the Rechabites and speak to them, and bring them to the house of Jehovah, into one of the rooms, and give them wine to drink.
Then I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habaziniah, and his brothers, and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites.
And I brought them into the house of Jehovah, into the room of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah, a man of God, which was near the room of the rulers, above the room of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the keeper of the threshold.
And I set bowls and cups full of wine before the sons of the house of the Rechabites. And I said to them, Drink wine.
But they said, We will not drink wine, for Jonadab, the son of Rechab our father, commanded us, saying, You shall not drink wine, you nor your sons forever.
And you shall not build a house nor sow seed, nor plant a vineyard, nor shall there be anything to you; but all your days you shall live in tents, so that you may live many days on the face of the land where you are residing.
And we have obeyed the voice of Jonadab, the son of Rechab our father, to all that he commanded us, to drink no wine all our days, we, our wives, our sons, and our daughters,
nor to build houses for us for our dwelling; nor do we have a vineyard, or field, or seed.
But we live in tents, and we have obeyed and done according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
But it happened when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against the land, then we said, Come, and let us go to Jerusalem, because of the army of the Chaldeans and because of the army of the Syrians. And we live in Jerusalem.
Then the word of Jehovah was to Jeremiah, saying,
So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel: Go and tell the men of Judah and the people of Jerusalem, Will you not receive instruction, to listen to My words? says Jehovah.
The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab are done, in which he commanded his sons not to drink wine. And to this day they do not drink, but obey their father's command. But I have spoken to you, rising early and speaking; and you did not listen to Me.
I have also sent to you all My servants the prophets, rising up early and sending, saying, Each man now return from his evil way, and amend your doings, and do not go after other gods to serve them, and you shall live in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers. But you have not bowed your ear, nor listened to Me.
Because the sons of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, have stood on the command of their father which he gave them, but this people has not listened to Me,
so Jehovah, God of Hosts, the God of Israel, says this, Behold, I will bring on Judah and on all the people of Jerusalem all the evil that I have spoken against them because I have spoken to them, but they did not listen. Yea, I have called to them, but they did not answer.
And Jeremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, So says Jehovah of Hosts the God of Israel: Because you have obeyed your father Jonadab's command, and have kept all his commands, and have done according to all that he has commanded you,
so Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel, says this: Jonadab, the son of Rechab, shall not have a man cut off from standing before Me all the days.