And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.
And Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, and took her, and lay with her, and humiliated her.
And his soul clung to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob. And he loved the girl, and spoke to the heart of the girl.
And Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, Take this girl for me for a wife.
And Jacob heard that he had defiled his daughter Dinah. And his sons were with his livestock in the field. And Jacob kept silent until they had come.
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him.
And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard, and the men were furious, and they were very angry, because he had done foolishness in Israel, to lie with the daughter of Jacob, and it should not be done in this way.
And Hamor spoke with them, saying, My son Shechem's soul is bound to your daughter. Please give her to him for a wife.
And you intermarry with us; give your daughters to us, and take our daughters for yourselves.
And live with us, and the land is before you; live and trade in it, and get property in it.
And Shechem said to her father, and to her brothers, Let me find favor in your eyes, and what you say to me I will give.
Heap on me ever so much bride-price and gift, and I will give as you say to me; but give me the girl for a wife.
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor, speaking with deceit because he had defiled their sister Dinah.
And they said to them, We are not able to do this thing, to give our sister to a man who is uncircumcised. For it is a reproach to us.
Only on this condition will we consent to you; If you will become like us, to have every male of you circumcised.
Then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to us; and we will live with you and will become one people.
And if you do not listen to us, to be circumcised, then we will take our daughter, and we will go.
And their words pleased Hamor and the son of Hamor, Shechem.
And the young man did not hesitate to do the thing, for he delighted in Jacob's daughter. And he was more honorable than all the house of his father.
And Hamor and his son Shechem came to the gate of their city. And they spoke with the men of their city, saying,
These men are peaceable with us; and, Let them live in the land and trade m it; and, behold, the land is wide on both hands before them. Let us take their daughters for ourselves for wives, and let us give our daughters to them.
only in this way will the men consent to us to live with us, to become one people: that every male of us be circumcised as they are circumcised.
Shall not their livestock, and their property, and all their beasts of burden be ours? Only let us consent to them, and let them live with us.
And all those going out of the gate of the city listened to Hamor, and to his son Shechem. And every male was circumcised, all those going out of the gate of the city.
And it happened on the third day, they being pained, that the two sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, each took his sword. And they came on the city in its security, and killed every male.
And they killed Hamor and his son Shechem with the sword. And they took Dinah from the house of Shechem, and left.
The sons of Jacob came on the slain and plundered the city, because they had defiled their sister.
They took their flocks and their herds and their asses, and whatever was in the city, and whatever was in the field.
And they took all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives, and looted all that was in the house.
And Jacob said to Simeon and to Levi, You have troubled me, to make me stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites, and among the Perizzites. And I being few in number, and they gathering against me, they will strike me, and I and my house shall be wasted.
And they said, Should he treat our sister like a harlot?