And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man Set thy face against Gog of the land of the Magog, Prince of Rosh Meshech and Tubal,- And prophesy concerning him,
and thou shalt say, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh,— Behold me! against thee O Gog, Prince of Rosh, Meshech and Tubal;
Therefore I will turn thee about, and will put hooks in thy jaws,—and bring thee forth and all thine army. Horses and horsemen Clothed with gorgeous attire, all of them, A mighty gathered host With shield and buckler handling swords, all of them:
Persia Ethiopia and Libya with them, All of them, with shield and helmet;
Gomer and all her hordes, The house of Togarmah the remote men of the North and all his hordes, Many peoples with thee.
Be ready, and show thyself ready, Thou and all thy gathered host who have gathered themselves unto thee,— And become thou for me a guard.
After many days, shalt thou muster thy forces, In the afterpart of the years, shalt thou enter Into the land of the remnant brought back from the sword Gathered from among many peoples, Upon the mountains of Israel which have been waste continually,— But the same! from among the peoples, hath been brought forth, And they shall dwell in security, all of them.
Then shalt thou come up, Like a storm, shalt thou enter, Like a cloud covering the land, shalt thou be,— Thou and all thy hordes, and many peoples with thee.
Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh,— So shall it be in that day, that thoughts will come up on thy heart.- And thou wilt devise a wicked device;
and wilt say— I will go up over a land of hamlets, I will enter among them who are at rest dwelling securely,— All of them, dwelling without a wall, Who bars and doors, have none;
To capture spoil. And take prey,- To bring back thy hand over desolate places at length inhabited And against a people gathered from among the nations, Getting herds and substance Dwelling upon the navel of the earth.
Sheba and Dedan and the traders of Tarshish and all her young lions, will say to thee, To capture spoil, art thou coming? And to take prey, hast thou called together thy gathered host? To carry off silver and gold To take away herds and substance, To capture great spoil?
Therefore prophesy, Son of man, and thou shalt say to Gog. Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh: Shall it not be in that day, because my people Israel are dwelling securely:, that thou wilt rouse thyself?
Therefore wilt thou come out of thy place. Out of the remote parts of the North, Thou and many peoples with thee,—Riding on horses all of them, A mighty gathered host. Yea a great army;
Therefore wilt thou come up, against my people Israel, like a cloud covering the land,— In the afterpart of the days, shall it be. that I will suffer thee to enter upon my land, To the end the nations may know me, when I hallow myself in thee before their eyes O Gog!
Thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh, Art thou, he of whom I spake in days aforetime by the hand of my servants the prophets of Israel, who kept on prophesying in those days for years,—That thou shouldest be suffered to come against them?
So then shall it come to pass in that day, In the day when Gog entereth upon the soil of Israel, Declareth My Lord Yahweh, That mine indignation shall come up into my nostrils;
Yea, in my jealousy, in the fire of mine outburst, have I spoken,- Surely in that day, shall there be a great trembling upon the soil of Israel:
Then shall tremble before me The fishes of the sea, and The bird of the heavens and The wild beast of the field, and Every creeping thing that creepeth on the ground, and All the men who are on the face of the ground,— and The mountains, shall be torn asunder, and The steep places, shall sink down, and, Every wall, to the earth, shall be thrown.
Then will I call against him, every terror, Declareth My Lord Yahweh, the sword of every man against his brother, shall be;
Then will I contend with him by pestilence and by blood,- And an overflowing downpour and hail-stones fire and brimstone, will I rain Upon him, and Upon his hordes, and Upon the many peoples who are with him.
So will I Magnify myself and Hallow myself, and Make myself known. Before the eyes of many nations,—And they shall know that I, am Yahweh.