In that day, will Yahweh With his sword—the hard and the great and the strong, Bring punishment Upon Leviathan, the fleeing serpent, And upon Leviathan, the crooked serpent,—And will slay the monster which is in the sea.
In that day, A Wine-Vineyard! sing ye unto her:
I—Yahweh, am Watching over her, Every moment, will I water her,—Lest anyone injure her, Night and day, will I watch over her.
Fury, have I none,—Oh that there were delivered to me briars and thorns, in battle! I would march in among them I would set fire to them one and all.
Else, let one lay hold of my protection, Let him make peace with me,—Peace, let him make with me.
In coming times, shall Jacob strike root, Israel, shall blossom and bud,—Then shall they fill the face of the world with fruit.
Was it, with the smiting of his smiter, that he smote him? Or as with the slaying of his slayer, was he slain?
By driving her away—by dismissing her, wouldest thou contend with her? He removed her by his rough wind in, a day of east wind.
Therefore hereby, shall a propitiatory—covering be put over the iniquity of Jacob, And all, this, is the fruit of taking away his sin,—When he maketh all the stones of an altar like chalk-stones that soon crumble, Sacred Stems and Sun Images, shall not arise.
For the fortified city, is solitary, The dwelling forsaken and left as a wilderness,—There, shall the calf feed, And, there, lie down And shall consume the branches thereof:
When the cut-off boughs thereof are dry, they shall be broken to pieces, Women, coming, are kindling it! For it is not a people of understanding, For this cause, Will he that made him, not have compassion upon him, And, he that formed him, will shew him no favour.
And it shall come to pass, in that day, That Yahweh will beat off his fruit from the stream of the River [="Euphrates"], unto the torrent-valley of Egypt,—And, ye, shall be picked up, one by one O sons of Israel.
And it shall come to pass in that day, That there shall be a blowing with a great horn, Then shall come in Such as have wandered in the land of Assyria, And such as have been outcasts in the land of Egypt,—And they shall bow themselves down unto Yahweh In the holy mountain, In Jerusalem.