Wisdom will praise her own mind, and she will be honored by God, and she will be glorified in the midst of her people.
And she will open her mouth in the churches of the Most High, and she will be glorified in the sight of his virtue.
And in the midst of her own people, she will be exalted. And she will be admired by the holy assembly.
And she will have praise within the multitude of the elect. And she will be blessed among the blessed. And she will say:
“I went forth from the mouth of the Most High, as the first-born before all creatures.
I caused an unfailing light to arise in the heavens. And I covered all the earth like a cloud.
I lived in the highest places, and my throne is in the pillar of a cloud.
I alone have encompassed the circuit of heaven, and have penetrated to the depths of the abyss, and have walked upon the waves of the sea,
and have stood upon the whole earth. And among every people,
and in every nation, I have held primacy.
And by virtue, I have tread upon the hearts of all, the great and the lowly. And I have sought my rest in all of them. And I will continue, as the inheritance of the Lord.
Then the Creator of all things instructed and spoke with me. And the One who created me rested in my tabernacle.
And he said to me: ‘Let your dwelling place be with Jacob, and let your inheritance be in Israel, for you shall take root among my elect.’
From the beginning, and before the world, I was created. And even unto the future world, I will not cease to exist. For I have ministered before him in the holy habitation.
And in this way, I was established in Zion. And likewise, in the holy city, I found rest. And my authority was in Jerusalem.
And I took root among an honorable people, within the portion of my God, within his inheritance. And so my abode is in the full assembly of the saints.
I was exalted like a cedar in Lebanon and like a cypress on Mount Zion.
I was exalted like a palm tree in Kadesh and like a rose bush in Jericho.
I was exalted like a beautiful olive tree in the plains, and like a sycamore tree beside the waters along a wide road.
I gave off an aromatic fragrance like cinnamon or balsam. I produced a sweet odor like the best myrrh.
And I perfumed my dwelling place with sweet gum, and aromatic resin, and flower petals, and aloe, as well as the finest cedar from Lebanon. And my fragrance is like undiluted balsam.
I have extended my branches like a terebinth tree, and my branches are of honor and grace.
Like the vine, I have born the fruit of a sweet fragrance. And my flowers are the fruit of honor and integrity.
I am the mother of the beauty of love, and of fear, and of knowledge, and of holy hope.
All grace of the way and of the truth is in me. All hope of life and of virtue is in me.
Journey toward me, all you who desire me, and be filled by my harvest.
For my spirit is sweeter than honey, and my inheritance is better than honey and the honeycomb.
My memory is for the generations of all ages.
Whoever consumes me will hunger still. And whoever drinks me will thirst still.
Whoever listens to me will not be confounded. And whoever acts in me will not sin.
Whoever elucidates me will have eternal life.”
All this is a book of life, and a covenant of the Most High, and an acknowledgement of truth.
Moses commanded the law by the precepts of justice, and an inheritance to the house of Jacob, and the promises to Israel.
God appointed David as his servant, in order to raise up from him a most mighty King, who would sit upon the throne of honor forever.
It is he who fulfills wisdom, like the Phison river and the Tigris river in the first days.
It is he who fulfills understanding, like the river Euphrates. It is he who multiplies understanding, like the river Jordan in the time of the harvest.
He sends forth discipline like the light, and he stands forth like the river Gehon in the time of the vintage.
He first had perfect knowledge of her, for a weaker one would not search for her.
For her thoughts abound like the sea, and her counsels abound like the great abyss.
“I, wisdom, have poured forth rivers.
I am like a brook leading to a river of immense waters. I am like a channel flowing from a river. And I went forth from Paradise like an aqueduct.
I said: I will irrigate my garden of plantings, and I will thoroughly water the fruits of my field.
And behold, my brook became overflowing, and my river drew near to the sea.
For I illuminate doctrine to all, like the first light. And I will announce doctrine, even to those who are far away.
I will reach to all the lower parts of the earth, and I will gaze upon all who sleep, and I will illuminate all who hope in the Lord.
Even now, I pour forth doctrine like prophecy. And even now, I bequeath doctrine to those who seek wisdom. And I will not cease from their progeny, even unto the holy time.
See how I have not labored for myself alone, but for all who are seeking truth!”