Moreouer, in the first day of the seuenth moneth ye shall haue an holy conuocation: ye shall doe no seruile worke therein: it shall be a day of blowing the trumpets vnto you.
And ye shall make a burnt offering for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord: one yong bullocke, one ram, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde, without blemish.
And their meat offring shalbe of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales vnto the bullocke, and two tenth deales vnto the ramme,
And one tenth deale vnto one lambe, for the seuen lambes,
And an hee goate for a sinne offering to make an atonement for you,
Beside the burnt offring of the moneth, and his meat offring, and the continual burnt offring, and his meate offring and the drinke offrings of the same, according to their maner, for a sweete sauour: it is a sacrifice made by fire vnto ye Lord.
And ye shall haue in ye tenth day of the seuenth moneth, an holy conuocation: and ye shall humble your soules, and shall not doe any worke therein:
But ye shall offer a burnt offring vnto the Lord for a sweete sauour: one yong bullocke, a ramme, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde: see they be without blemish.
And their meate offering shall be of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales to a bullocke, and two tenth deales to a ramme,
One tenth deale vnto euery lambe, thoroughout the seuen lambes,
An hee goate for a sinne offring, (beside ye sinne offring to make the atonement and the continual burnt offring and the meat offring thereof) and their drinke offrings.
And in the fifteenth day of the seuenth moneth ye shall haue an holie conuocation: ye shall do no seruile worke therein, but yee shall keepe a feast vnto the Lord seuen daies.
And ye shall offer a burnt offring for a sacrifice made by fire of sweete sauour vnto the Lord, thirteene yong bullockes, two rammes, and fourtene lambes of a yeere olde: they shall bee without blemish.
And their meate offering shall bee of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales vnto euery bullocke of the thirteene bullockes, two tenth deales to either of the two rammes,
And one tenth deale vnto eche of ye fourteene lambes,
And one hee goate for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offring, and his drinke offring.
And the second day ye shall offer twelue yong bullockes, two rams, fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
With their meate offring and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
And an hee goate for a sinne offring, (beside the continuall burnt offering and his meate offring) and their drinke offrings.
Also the third day ye shall offer eleuen bullocks, two rams, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
With their meate offring and their drinke offrings, for the bullockes, for the rams, and for the lambes, after their nomber according to the maner,
And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, and his meate offring and his drinke offring.
And the fourth day ye shall offer tenne bullocks, two rammes, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish.
Their meate offring and their drinke offrings, for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
And an hee goate for a sinne offering beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offering and his drinke offering.
In the fifth day also ye shall offer nine bullockes, two rammes, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
And their meat offering and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, and his meat offring and his drinke offering.
And in the sixt day ye shall offer eight bullockes, two rams, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
And their meate offring, and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offring and his drinke offrings.
In the seuenth day also ye shall offer seuen bullocks, two rammes and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
And their meate offering and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after their maner,
And an hee goate for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offering and his drinke offring.
In the eight day, yee shall haue a solemne assemblie: yee shall doe no seruile worke therein,
But yee shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, one bullocke, one ram, and seuen lambes of a yeere old without blemish,
Their meate offring and their drinke offrings for the bullocke, for the ramme, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, and his meate offring, and his drinke offring.
These things ye shall do vnto the Lord in your feastes, beside your vowes, and your free offrings, for your burnt offrings, and for your meate offrings, and for your drinke offrings and for your peace offrings.
