Even you, who were dead in trespasses and sins
in which ye once walked according to the era of this world, according to the ruler of the power of the air, the spirit that now works in the sons of disobedience.
Among whom we also all once behaved in the lusts of our flesh, doing the intentions of the flesh and of the thoughts, and were by nature children of wrath as also the others.
But God, being rich in mercy, through his great love that he loved us,
even us being dead in the transgressions, he made alive together with the Christ (ye are saved by grace),
and raised us up together, and seated us together in the heavenly things in Christ Jesus.
So that in the coming ages he might show the transcending wealth of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
For ye are saved by grace through faith, and this a gift of God, not from you,
not from works, so that not any man may boast.
For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God preordained that we should walk in them.
Remember therefore that once ye, the Gentiles in flesh, who are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision (in flesh, made by hands),
that ye were at that time independent of Christ, alienated from the citizenship of Israel, and alien of the covenants of the promise, having no hope and godless in the world.
But now in Christ Jesus ye, being formerly far off, became near in the blood of the Christ.
For he is our peace, who made both one, and broke down the dividing wall of partition,
having abolished in his flesh the enmity-the law of the commandments in ordinances-so that he might create in himself the two into one new man, making peace,
and might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross, having slain the enmity by it.
And after coming he preached good news, peace to you, to those far off and to those near,
because through him we both have the access in one Spirit to the Father.
So then ye are no more alien and foreign, but fellow citizens of the sanctified, and belonging to the household of God.
Which was built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the chief corner,
in whom the whole building joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord,
in whom ye also are built together in Spirit into a habitation of God.