Then said Elijah the Tishbite, of Tishbe in Gilead, unto Ahab, By the life of Yahweh, God of Israel, before whom I stand, there shall not, these two years, be either dew or rain,—save at the bidding of my word.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto him, saying:
Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward,—and hide thyself in the ravine of Cherith, which faceth the Jordan;
and it shall be that, of the torrent, shalt thou drink,—and, the ravens, have I commanded to sustain thee, there.
So he went and did, according to the word of Yahweh,—yea he went and dwelt in the ravine of Cherith, which faceth the Jordan.
And, the ravens, used to bring him bread and flesh, in the morning, and bread and flesh, in the evening,—and, of the torrent, used he to drink.
But it came to pass, at the end of [certain] days, that the torrent dried up,—because there had been no rain in the land.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto him, saying—
Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there,—Lo! I have commanded, there, a widow woman, to sustain thee.
So he arose and went to Zarephath, and, when he came to the entrance of the city, lo! there, a widow woman gathering sticks,—and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.
And, as she went to fetch it, he called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread, in thy hand.
And she said—By the life of Yahweh, thy God, verily I have not a cake, only a handful of meal in the jar, and a little oil in the cruse,—and lo! I have been gathering a couple of sticks, so I shall go in and make it ready for me and for my son, that we may eat it—and die!
And Elijah said unto her—Do not fear, go in—make ready according to thy word,—howbeit, make me thereof a little cake, first, and bring it out to me, and, for thyself and thy son, make ready, afterwards.
For, thus, saith Yahweh, God of Israel, The jar of meal, shall not waste, and, the cruse of oil, shall not fail,—until the day that Yahweh giveth rain upon the face of the ground.
So she went and made ready, according to the word of Elijah,—and did eat, she, and he, and her house, [certain] days:
The jar of meal, did not waste,—and, the cruse of oil, did not fail,—according to the word of Yahweh, which he spake through Elijah.
And it came to pass, after these things, that the son of the woman, owner of the house, fell sick,—yea it came to pass that his sickness was very severe, until no, breath, was left in him.
Then said she unto Elijah, What have I in common with thee, O man of God? Hast thou come unto me, to call to remembrance mine iniquity, and to cause the death of my son?
And he said unto her—Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him unto the upper room, where, he, was staying, and laid him upon his own bed.
Then cried he unto Yahweh, and said,—O Yahweh, my God! Even upon the widow with whom I am sojourning, hast thou brought misfortune by causing the death of her son?
And he stretched himself out upon the boy, three times, and cried unto Yahweh, and said,—O Yahweh, my God! Let the life of this boy, I pray thee, come again within him.
And Yahweh hearkened unto the voice of Elijah,—and the life of the boy came again within him, and he lived.
Then Elijah took the boy, and carried him down out of the upper room, into the house, and gave him to his mother,—and Elijah said, See! thy son liveth.
And the woman said unto Elijah, Now, then I know, that, a man of God, thou art,—and that, the word of Yahweh, is in thy mouth, of a truth.