And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shittim two men to spy secretly, saying, Go look over the land, even Jericho. And they went and came to the house of a harlot named Rahab. And they stayed there.
And the king of Jericho was told about it, saying, Behold, men from the sons of Israel came in here tonight, to search out the country.
And the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, Bring out the men that have come to you, those who have entered into your house. For they have come to search out all the country.
And the woman took the two men and hid them. And she said, Two men came to me, but I did not know from where they came.
And it happened when it was dark, at the time of shutting the gate, the men went out. Where the men went I do not know. Go after them quickly, for you shall overtake them.
But she had brought them up on the roof, and had hidden them with the stalks of flax which she had laid in order upon the roof.
And the men went after them on the way to Jordan, to the fords. And when they who pursued them had gone out, they shut the gate.
And before they had laid down, she came up to them on the roof.
And she said to the men, I know that the LORD has given you the land, and that your terror has fallen on us, and that all those who live in the land faint because of you.
For we have heard how the LORD dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom you utterly destroyed.
And we had heard, and our hearts melted, nor did any more spirit remain in any man, because of you. For the LORD your God, He is God in Heaven above and in earth beneath.
Now therefore, I pray you, swear to me by the LORD, since I have dealt with you in kindness, that you will also deal with kindness to my father's house. And give me a true token,
and shall save alive my father and my mother, and my brothers and my sisters, and all that they have, and deliver our lives from death.
And the men answered her, Our life shall be for yours, if you do not tell our business. And when the LORD has given us the land, we will deal kindly and truly with you.
Then she let them go down by a cord through the window. For her house was on the town wall, and she lived on the wall.
And she said to them, Get up into the mountain lest the pursuers meet you. And hide yourselves there three days until the pursuers have returned. And afterward you may go your way.
And the men said to her, We will be blameless of this oath to you which you have made us swear.
Behold, when we come into the land, you shall set this line of scarlet thread in the window from which you let us down. And you shall bring your father and your mother, and your brothers, and all your father's household, home to you.
And it shall be, whoever shall go out of the doors of your house, his blood shall be on his head, and we will be blameless. And whoever shall be with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head if a hand is on him.
And if you tell our business, then we will be free of the oath which you have made us swear to you.
And she said, Let it be according to your word. And she sent them away, and they departed. And she set the scarlet line in the window.
And they went and came to the mountain, and stayed there three days until the pursuers them had returned. And the pursuers looked for them throughout all the way, but did not find them.
And the two men returned. And came down from the mountain, and passed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun. And they told him all that happened to them.
And they said to Joshua, Truly the LORD has delivered all the land into our hands, for even all those who live in the country faint because of us.