O God! thy justice, give, unto the king, And thy righteousness, unto the son of a king;
May he judge, Thy people with righteousness; And thine oppressed ones with justice;
May the mountains bring peace to the people, And the hills [be laden] with righteousness;
May he, Vindicate the oppressed of the people, Bring deliverance to the children of the needy, and, Crush the oppressor.
Let men revere thee, With the sun, And in presence of the moon, Unto the remotest generation.
Let him come down, Like rain on fields to be mown, Like myriad drops on land to be reaped.
May righteousness, in his days, blossom forth, And abundance of peace, till there be no moon.
So let him have dominion, From sea to sea, And from the River [="Euphrates"] unto the ends of the earth;
Before him, let the men of the desert kneel, But, as for his foes, the dust, let them lick;
The kings of Tarshish and of the Coastlands, A gift, let them render, The kings of Sheba and Seba, A present, let them bring;
Yea let all kings, bow down unto him, Let, all nations, serve him;
Because he Rescueth, The needy from the rich, The oppressed, who hath no helper;
He Pitieth the weak and the needy, And, the lives of the needy, he Saveth:
From extortion, and, violence, he Redeemeth their life, And precious is their blood in his sight.
Let him live, then! And be there given unto him of the gold of Sheba,—Let prayer also be offered for him continually, All the day, let him be blessed.
May there be an abundance of corn in the earth, in the top of the mountains,—Let the fruit thereof, wave like Lebanon, And they of the city bloom like the fresh shoots of the earth.
May his Name be age-abiding, In the presence of the sun, let his Name flourish,—And may all the families of the ground bless themselves in him, All nations, pronounce him happy!
Blessed be Yahweh God, the God of Israel,—Who doeth wondrous things by himself alone;
And blessed be his glorious Name, unto times age-abiding,—And filled with his glory be all the earth, Amen and Amen!
Ended are the prayers of David, son of Jesse.