Behold, how great love the Father has bestowed on us, that we should be called the children of God! For this reason, the world knows us not, because it knew him not.
Beloved, now are we the children of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is.
And every one that has this hope in Him purifies himself, even as He is pure.
Every one that works sin, works also transgression of law: and sin is transgression of law.
And you know that he was manifested, that he might take away our sins; and in him there is no sin.
Whoever abides in him, sins not. Whoever sins, has neither seen him nor known him.
Little children, let no one deceive you: he that works righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
He that works sin is of the devil, for the devil sins from the beginning: for this purpose was the son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.
Whoever has been begotten of God does not work sin; because his seed remains in him: and he can not sin, because he has been begotten of God.
By this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whoever does not work righteousness is not of God; neither is he that loves not his brother.
For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
Not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, and slew his brother: and for what reason did he slay him? because his own works were evil, and his brother’s, righteous.
Wonder not, my brethren, if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brethren: he that loves not his brother, abides in death.
Whoever hates his brother, is a murderer: and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
By this we know the love of Christ, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
Whoever has this world’s goods, and sees his brother have need, and shuts his heart against him, how dwells the love of God in him?
My little children, let us not love in word, nor in tongue, but in deed, and in truth.
And by this we know that we are of the truth; and we shall have our hearts at rest before him:
for if our heart condemn us, we know that God is greater than our heart, and knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have confidence toward God,
and whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments, and do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
And this is his commandment: That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment.
And he that keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit which he has given us.