And I turned and lifted up my eyes and looked. And behold! Four chariots were coming from between two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of bronze.
Red horses were in the first chariot; and in the second chariot black horses;
and in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot horses with dappled, strong colors.
And I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord?
And the angel answered and said to me, These are the four spirits of the heavens who go forth from standing before the Lord of all the earth.
The black horses in it go forth into the north country; and the white go forth after them; and the dappled go forth to a south country.
And the strong colored ones went forth and sought to go, so to walk to and fro through the earth. And he said, Go! Walk to and fro through the earth. So they walked to and fro through the earth.
And he cried to me and spoke to me, saying, Behold, these who go toward the north country have caused My Spirit to rest in the north country.
And the word of the LORD came to me saying,
Take from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, from the exiles who have come from Babylon; and in that day you go and enter the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah.
And take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest.
And speak to him, saying, So speaks the LORD of hosts, saying, Behold the Man whose name is The BRANCH! And He shall spring up out of His place, and He shall build the temple of the LORD.
Even He shall build the temple of the LORD; and He shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule on His throne. And He shall be a priest on His throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.
And the crowns shall be for a memorial in the temple of the LORD to Helem and to Tobijah and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah.
And the distant ones shall come and build in the temple of the LORD, and you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall be, if you will carefully obey the voice of the LORD your God.