Then Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him,—and commanded him and said to him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
Rise, go thy way to Padan-aram to the house of Bethuel, thy mother’s father,—and take thee from thence a wife, of the daughters of Laban, thy mother’s brother.
And, GOD Almighty, bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, so shalt thou become a multitude of peoples.
And may he give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee,—that thou mayest possess the land of thy sojournings, which God gave to Abraham.
So Isaac sent away Jacob, and he took his journey to Padan-aram,—unto Laban son of Bethuel, the Syrian, brother of Rebekah, mother of Jacob and Esau.
And Esau beheld that Isaac, when he blessed Jacob, and sent him to Padan-aram, to take to himself from thence a wife, that in blessing him, he laid command upon him, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;
And that Jacob hearkened unto his father and unto his mother,—and took his journey to Padan-aram.
So then Esau beheld that displeasing, were the daughters of Caanan,—in the eyes of Isaac his father:
Esau therefore went unto Ishmael,—and took Mahalath daughter of Ishmael son of Abraham sister of Nebaioth, to himself to wife, in addition to the wives that he had.
So Jacob went forth from Beer-sheba, and journeyed towards Haran.
And he lighted on a place, and tarried the night there, because the sun had gone in,—and he took of the stones of the place, and put for his pillow, and lay down in that place,
And he dreamed, and lo! a stairway, planted earthwards, with, its top, reaching towards the heavens,—and lo! messengers of God, ascending and descending thereon;
and lo! Yahweh, standing by him,—and he said, I, am Yahweh, God of Abraham thy father and God of Isaac,—The land whereon, thou, art lying, to thee, will I give it and to thy seed;
And thy seed shall become as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt break forth westward and eastward, and northward and southward,—And all the families of the ground shall be blessed in thee and in thy seed.
Lo! then, I, am with thee, so will I keep thee in every place whithersoever thou mayest go, and will bring thee back unto this soil,—For I will not forsake thee until I have done that of which I have spoken to thee.
And Jacob awoke from his sleep, and said. Surely, Yahweh was in this place, And I, knew it not.
And he feared and said, How fearful is this place! None other this, than the house of God! Nor this than the gate of the heavens
So Jacob rose early in the morning, and took the stone which he had put for his pillow, and put it for a pillar,—and poured out oil upon the top thereof;
and called the name of that place—Beth-el,—nevertheless, Luz, was the name of the city, aforetime.
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying,—If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way whereon, I, am going, and give me bread to eat and raiment to put on;
and I come back in prosperity unto the house of my father, Then will Yahweh prove to be my God,—
And, this stone which I have put for a pillar, shall be the house of God,—And, of all which thou shalt give me, a tenth, will I tithe unto thee.