And he pointed out to me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, issuing forth out of the throne of God and of the Lamb,
in the midst of the broadway thereof. And, on this side of the river and on that, was a tree of life, bearing twelve crops of fruit, every several month, yielding its fruit; and, the leaves of the tree, were for the healing of the nations,
And, no curse, shall there be, any more; and, the throne of God and of the Lamb, shall be, therein,—and his servants will render divine service unto him,
and they shall see his face, and, his name, [shall be] upon their foreheads.
And, night, shall be, no more; and they have no need of the light of a lamp or the light of a sun, because, the Lord, God, will give them light,—and they shall reign unto the ages of ages.
And he said unto me—These words, are faithful and true; and, the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, hath sent his messenger, to point out, unto his servants, the things which must needs come to pass with speed.
And—Lo! I come speedily! Happy, is he that keepeth the words of the prophecy of this scroll.
And, I, John, am he that was hearing and seeing these things; and, when I had heard and seen, I fell down to do homage at the feet of the messenger who had been pointing out unto me these things,—
and he saith unto me—See [thou do it] not! A fellow-servant, am I, of thee, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them who keep the words of this scroll: unto God, do homage.
And he saith unto me—Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this scroll, for, the season, is, near:
He that is doing unjustly, let him do unjustly, still, and, he that is filthy, let him be made filthy, still; and, he that is righteous, let him do righteousness, still, and, he that is holy, let him be hallowed, still:—
Lo! I come speedily, and my reward is with me, to render unto each one as, his, work is.
I, am the A and the Z, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
Happy, they who are washing their robes, that their right may be unto the tree of life and, by the gates, they may enter into the city.
Outside, are the dogs, and the sorcerers, and the unchaste, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and every one loving and doing falsehood.
I, Jesus, have sent my messenger, to bear witness unto you of these things, for the assemblies. I, am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright and the morning Star.
And, the Spirit and the Bride, say—Come! and, he that heareth, let him say—Come! and, he that is athirst, let him come,—he that will, let him take of the water of life, freely.
I, bear witness, unto every one that heareth the words of the prophecy of this scroll:—If anyone shall lay aught upon them, God, will lay upon him, the plagues which are written in this scroll;
And, if anyone shall take away from the words of this prophetic scroll, God, will take away his part,—from the tree of life, and out of the holy city,—[from] the things written in this scroll.
He that beareth witness of these things, saith—Yea! I come, speedily. Amen! come, Lord Jesus!
The favour of the Lord Jesus [Christ] be with the saints.