And these are the sons of the province who went up out of the captivity, of those who had been exiled, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had exiled to Babylon. And these came again to Jerusalem and Judah, each one to his city.
These are the ones who came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. This is the number of the men of the people of the sons of Israel:
The sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two.
The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two.
The sons of Arah, seven hundred and seventy-five.
The sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve.
The sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four.
The sons of Zattu, nine hundred and forty-five.
The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.
The sons of Bani, six hundred and forty-two.
The sons of Bebai, six hundred and twenty-three.
The sons of Azgad, a thousand two hundred and twenty-two.
The sons of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty-six.
The sons of Bigvai, two thousand and fifty-six.
The sons of Adin, four hundred and fifty-four.
The sons of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
The sons of Bezai, three hundred and twenty-three.
The sons of Jorah, a hundred and twelve.
The sons of Hashum, two hundred and twenty-three.
The sons of Gibbar, ninety-five.
The sons of Bethlehem, a hundred and twenty-three.
The men of Netophah, fifty-six.
The men of Anathoth, a hundred and twenty-eight.
The sons of Azmaveth, forty-two.
The sons of Kirjath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth seven hundred and forty-three.
The sons of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty-one.
The men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty-two.
The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred and twenty-three.
The men of Nebo, fifty-two.
The men of Magbish, a hundred and fifty-six.
The sons of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four.
The sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
The sons of Lod, Hadid and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-five.
The sons of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five.
The sons of Senaah, three thousand, six hundred and thirty.
The priests: The sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three.
The sons of Immer, a thousand and fifty-two.
The sons of Pashur, a thousand two hundred and forty-seven.
The sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: The sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah seventy-four.
The singers: The sons of Asaph, a hundred and twenty-eight.
The sons of the gatekeepers: The sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, a hundred and thirty-nine.
The temple-slaves: The sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon,
the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub,
the sons of Hagab, the sons of Shalmai, the sons of Hanan,
the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah,
the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazzam,
the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai,
the sons of Asnah, the sons of Mehunim, the sons of Nephusim,
the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Thamah,
the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha.
The sons of Solomon's servants: The sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Peruda,
the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth of Zebaim, the sons of Ami.
All the temple-slaves, and the sons of Solomon's servants three hundred and ninety-two.
And these were they who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsa, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they could not show their father's house and their seed, whether they were of Israel:
the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred and fifty-two.
And of the sons of the priests, the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Koz, the sons of Barzillai (who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name).
These looked for their register among those who were counted by genealogy, but they were not found. Therefore they were polluted from the priesthood.
And the governor said to them that they should not eat of the most holy things until there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
The whole congregation together was forty-two thousand, three hundred and sixty,
besides their servants and their maids, seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven. And among them were two hundred singing men and singing women.
Their horses were seven hundred and thirty-six, their mules, two hundred and forty-five,
their camels, four hundred and thirty-five, their asses six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
And some of the chief of the fathers, when they came to the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of God to set it up in its place.
They gave according to their ability to the treasure of the work, sixty one thousand drachmas of gold, and five thousand minas of silver, and one hundred priest's garments.
And the priests, and the Levites, and many of the people, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the temple slaves, lived in their cities. And all Israel in their cities.