And the man knew his wife Eve. And she conceived and bore Cain, and said, I have gotten a man with the help of Jehovah.
And she continued to bear his brother, Abel. And Abel became a shepherd of flocks. And Cain became a tiller of the ground.
And in the end of days, it happened that Cain brought an offering to Jehovah from the fruit of the ground.
And Abel brought, he also, from the firstlings of his flocks, even from their fat. And Jehovah looked to Abel and to his offering.
And He did not look to Cain and to his offering. And Cain glowed greatly with anger, and his face fell.
And Jehovah said to Cain, Why have you angrily glowed, and why has your face fallen?
If you do well, is there not exaltation? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door; and its desire is toward you; but you should rule over it.
And Cain talked with his brother Abel. And it happened as they were in the field, Cain rose up against His brother Abel, and killed him.
And Jehovah said to Cain, Where is your brother Abel? And he said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper?
And He said, What have you done? The voice of the blood of your brother cries to Me from the ground.
And now you are cursed more than the ground which opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand.
When you till the ground, it will not again give its strength to you. You shall be a vagabond and a fugitive on the earth.
And Cain said to Jehovah, My punishment is greater than I can bear.
Behold! You have driven me out from the face of the earth today. And I shall be hidden from Your face. And I shall be a vagabond and a fugitive on the earth. And it will be that anyone who finds me shall kill me.
And Jehovah said to him, If anyone kills Cain, he shall be avenged sevenfold. And Jehovah set a mark on Cain, so that anyone who found him should not kill him.
And Cain went out from the presence of Jehovah. And he lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden.
And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city, and he called the name of the city according to the name of his son, Enoch.
And Irad was born to Enoch; and Irad fathered Mehujael And Mehujael fathered Methusael; and Methusael fathered Lamech.
And Lamech took two wives to himself: the name of the first was Adah; and the name of the second was Zillah.
And Adah bore Jabal; he was the father of those living in tents, and with cattle.
And the name of his brother was Jubal; he was the father of all those playing the harp and the organ.
And Zillah also bore Tubalcain, the hammerer of every engraving tool of bronze and iron. And the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.
And Lamech said to his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice, you wives of Lamech; listen to my words; for I have killed a man because of my wound, and a young man because of my hurt.
For Cain is avenged sevenfold, and Lamech seventy seven.
And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son. And she called his name, Seth, for God has appointed to me another seed in place of Abel because Cain killed him.
And a son was also born to Seth, and he called his name, Enos. Then it was begun to call on the name of Jehovah.