Thou shall not see thy brother's ox or his sheep go astray, and hide thyself from them. Thou shall surely bring them again to thy brother.
And if thy brother be not near to thee, or if thou do not know him, then thou shall bring it home to thy house, and it shall be with thee until thy brother seeks after it, and thou shall restore it to him.
And so shall thou do with his donkey, and so shall thou do with his garment, and so shall thou do with every lost thing of thy brother's, which he has lost, and thou have found. Thou may not hide thyself.
Thou shall not see thy brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way, and hide thyself from them. Thou shall surely help him to lift them up again.
A woman shall not wear that which pertains to a man, neither shall a man put on a woman's garment, for whoever does these things is an abomination to Jehovah thy God.
If a bird's nest chance to be before thee in the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the dam sitting upon the young or upon the eggs, thou shall not take the dam with the young.
Thou shall surely let the dam go, but the young thou may take to thyself, that it may be well with thee, and that thou may prolong thy days.
When thou build a new house, then thou shall make a guard rail for thy roof, that thou not bring blood upon thy house, if any man falls from there.
Thou shall not sow thy vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole fruit be forfeited: the seed which thou have sown, and the increase of the vineyard.
Thou shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.
Thou shall not wear a mingled stuff, wool and linen together.
Thou shall make for thee hems upon the four borders of thy clothing, with which thou cover thyself.
If any man takes a wife, and goes in to her, and dislikes her,
and charges her with shameful things, and brings up an evil name upon her, and says, I took this woman, and when I came near to her, I did not find in her the tokens of virginity,
then the father of the damsel, and her mother, shall take and bring forth the tokens of the damsel's virginity to the elders of the city in the gate.
And the damsel's father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he dislikes her.
And, lo, he has charged her with shameful things, saying, I did not find in thy daughter the tokens of virginity, and yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the garment before the elders of the city.
And the elders of that city shall take the man and chastise him,
and they shall fine him a hundred shekels of silver, and give them to the father of the damsel, because he has brought up an evil name upon a virgin of Israel, and she shall be his wife. He may not put her away all his days.
But if this thing be true, that the tokens of virginity were not found in the damsel,
then they shall bring the damsel out to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones, because she has wrought folly in Israel, to play the harlot in her father's house. So shall thou put away the evil from the midst of thee.
If a man be found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the man that lay with the woman, and the woman. So shall thou put away the evil from Israel.
If there be a damsel who is a virgin betrothed to a husband, and a man finds her in the city, and lies with her,
then ye shall bring them both out to the gate of that city. And ye shall stone them to death with stones, the damsel, because she did not cry out, being in the city, and the man, because he has humbled his neighbor's wife. So thou shall put away the evil from the midst of thee.
But if the man finds the damsel who is betrothed in the field, and the man forces her, and lies with her, then only the man who lay with her shall die,
but to the damsel thou shall do nothing. There is in the damsel no sin worthy of death. For as when a man rises against his neighbor, and kills him, even so is this matter,
for he found her in the field, the betrothed damsel cried out, and there was none to save her.
If a man finds a damsel who is a virgin, who is not betrothed, and lays hold on her, and lies with her, and they be found,
then the man who lay with her shall give to the damsel's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he has humbled her. He may not put her away all his days.
A man shall not take his father's wife, and shall not uncover his father's skirt.