Take heed not to do your alms before men, to be seen of them; otherwise, ye have no reward of your Father who is in the heavens.
Therefore, when thou doest [thine] alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They [already] have their reward.
But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth
that thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who sees in secret, he shall reward thee openly.
And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites [are], for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They already have their reward.
But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy chamber, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father who sees in secret shall reward thee openly.
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions as the worldly [do], for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.
Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knows what things ye have need of before ye ask him.
Ye, therefore, are to pray like this: Our Father who art in the heavens, Hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as [it is] in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And set us free [from] our debts, as we set free our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.
For if ye set men free [from] their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also set you free;
but if ye do not set men free [from] their trespasses, neither will your Father set you free [from] your trespasses.
Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They [already] have their reward.
But thou, when thou dost fast, anoint thine head, and wash thy face
that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father, who sees in secret, shall reward thee openly.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal;
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust corrupt and where thieves do not break through nor steal;
for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
The lamp of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye is sincere, thy whole body shall be full of light.
But if thine eye is evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If, therefore, the light that is in thee is darkness, how great [is] that darkness!
No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and riches.
Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than food, and the body than raiment?
Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are ye not much better than they?
Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?
And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they toil not, neither do they spin;
and yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Therefore, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, [shall he] not much more [clothe] you, O ye of little faith?
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, With what shall we be clothed?
(For the Gentiles seek after all these things.) For your heavenly Father knows that ye have need of all these things.
But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.
Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day [is] the affliction thereof.: