Alleluia.  Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is forever.
Let Israel now say: For he is good, for his mercy is forever.
Let the house of Aaron now say: For his mercy is forever.
Let those who fear the Lord now say: For his mercy is forever.
In my tribulation, I called upon the Lord. And the Lord heeded me with generosity.
The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do to me.
The Lord is my helper. And I will look down upon my enemies.
It is good to trust in the Lord, rather than to trust in man.
It is good to hope in the Lord, rather than to hope in leaders.
All the nations have surrounded me. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them.
Surrounding me, they closed in on me. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them.
They surrounded me like a swarm, and they burned like fire among the thorns. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them.
Having been pushed, I was overturned so as to fall. But the Lord took me up.
The Lord is my strength and my praise. And he has become my salvation.
A voice of exultation and salvation is in the tabernacles of the just.
The right hand of the Lord has wrought virtue. The right hand of the Lord has exalted me. The right hand of the Lord has wrought virtue.
I will not die, but I will live. And I will declare the works of the Lord.
When chastising, the Lord chastised me. But he has not delivered me over to death.
Open the gates of justice to me. I will enter them, and I will confess to the Lord.
This is the gate of the Lord. The just will enter by it.
I will confess to you because you have heard me. And you have become my salvation.
The stone which the builders have rejected, this has become the head of the corner.
By the Lord has this been done, and it is a wonder before our eyes.
This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us exult and rejoice in it.
O Lord, grant salvation to me. O Lord, grant good prosperity.
Blessed is he who arrives in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord.
The Lord is God, and he has enlightened us. Establish a solemn day amid a dense crowd, even to the horn of the altar.
You are my God, and I will confess to you. You are my God, and I will exalt you. I will confess to you, for you have heeded me. And you have become my salvation.
Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is forever.