A deceptive balance, is an abomination to Yahweh, but, a full weight, is his delight.
When pride cometh, then cometh contempt, but, with the modest, is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright, shall guide them, but, the crookedness of the treacherous, shall be their ruin.
Wealth, shall not profit, in the day of wrath, but, righteousness, shall deliver from death.
The righteousness of the blameless, shall smooth his way, but, by his own lawlessness, shall the lawless one, fall.
The righteousness of the upright, shall deliver them, but, by their own craving, shall the treacherous be captured.
When the lawless man dieth, his expectation, perisheth, and, the hope of strong men, hath vanished.
The righteous man, out of distress, is delivered, then cometh a lawless man into his place.
With the mouth, a profane man destroyeth his neighbour, but, through knowledge, shall righteous men be delivered.
When it is, well with the righteous, the city, exulteth, When the lawless perish, there is a shout of triumph.
When the upright are blessed, exalted is the city, but, by the mouth of the lawless, it is overthrown.
He that sheweth contempt for his neighbour, lacketh sense, but, a man of understanding, observeth silence.
He that goeth about talebearing, revealeth a secret, but, he that is faithful in spirit, concealeth a matter.
With no guidance, a people will fall, but, safety, lieth in the greatness of the counsellor.
He that becometh surety for a stranger, goeth to utter ruin, but, he that hateth striking hands, is secure.
A gracious wife, obtaineth honour, but, the diligent, shall obtain wealth.
The man of lovingkindness, dealeth well with his own soul, but the cruel man, troubleth his own flesh.
The lawless man, earneth the wages of falsehood, but, he that soweth righteousness, hath the reward of fidelity.
A righteous son, [turneth] to life, but, he that pursueth wickedness, to his own death.
The abomination of Yahweh, are they of perverse heart, but, his delight, are the men of blameless life.
Hand to hand, the wicked man shall not be held innocent, but, the seed of the righteous, hath been delivered.
As a ring of gold in the snout of a swine, is a woman of beauty who hath abandoned discretion.
The desire of the righteous, is only good, the expectation of the lawless, is wrath.
There is who scattereth, and increaseth yet more, and who withholdeth of what is due, only to come to want.
The liberal soul, shall be enriched, and, he that refresheth, shall himself also be refreshed.
He that keepeth back corn, the populace will curse him, but there is, a blessing, for the head of him that selleth.
He that diligently seeketh good, aimeth at favour, but, he that studieth mischief, it shall come on himself.
He that trusteth in his riches, the same, shall fall, but, like the leaf, shall the righteous break forth.
He that troubleth his own house, shall inherit the wind, but, a servant, shall the foolish be, to the wise in heart.
The fruit of the righteous, is a tree of life, and, he that rescueth souls, is wise.
Lo! the righteous, in the earth shall be recompensed, how much more the lawless and the sinner.