Then through fourteen years, I again went up to Jerusalem with Barnabas, also taking Titus with me .
And I went up according to revelation. And I put before them the gospel which I proclaim in the nations, but privately to the ones seeming to be pillars, lest I run, or I ran, into vanity.
But not even Titus, the one with me, a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised.
But it was because of those false brothers stealing in, who stole in to spy on our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, they desiring to enslave us,
to whom not even for an hour we yielded in subjection, that the truth of the gospel might continue with you.
But from those seeming to be something (of what kind they were then does not matter to me; God does not accept the face of man), for those seeming important conferred nothing to me;
but on the contrary, seeing that I have been entrusted with the gospel of the uncircumcision, even as Peter to the circumcision,
(for He working in Peter to an apostleship of the circumcision, also worked in me to the nations),
and knowing the grace given to me, James and Cephas and John, those seeming to be pillars, gave right hands of fellowship to Barnabas and to me, that we go to the nations, but they to the circumcision;
only that we might remember the poor, which same thing I was eager to do.
But when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he was to be blamed.
For before some came from James, he ate with the nations. But when they came, he drew back and separated himself, being afraid of those of the circumcision.
And also the rest of the Jews dissembled with him, so as even Barnabas was led away with their dissembling.
But when I saw that they did not walk uprightly with the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter before all, If you being a Jew, live as a non-Jew and not as the Jews, why do you compel the nations to Judaize?
We, Jews by nature, and not sinners of the nations,
knowing that a man is not justified by works of law, but that it is through faith in Jesus Christ (we also believed in Christ Jesus, that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of law, because all flesh will not be justified by works of law). Psa. 123:2
But if seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves also were found to be sinners, is Christ then a minister of sin? Let it not be!
For if I build again these things which I destroyed, I confirm myself as a transgressor.
For through law I died to law, that I might live to God.
I have been crucified with Christ, and I live; yet no longer I, but Christ lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith toward the Son of God, the One loving me and giving Himself over on my behalf.
I do not set aside the grace of God; for if righteousness is through law, then Christ died without cause.