Now concerning what you wrote to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
But, to avoid fornication, let each have his own wife, and let each have her own husband.
Let the husband give to the wife proper kindness, and likewise the wife also to the husband.
The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband. And likewise also the husband does not have power over his own body, but the wife.
Do not deprive one another, unless it is with consent for a time, so that you may give yourselves to fasting and prayer. And come together again so that Satan does not tempt you for your incontinence.
But I speak this by permission, not of commandment.
For I would that all men were even as I myself am. But each has his proper gift from God, one according to this manner and another according to that.
I say therefore to the unmarried and the widows, It is good for them if they remain even as I.
But if they do not have self-control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn.
And to the married I command (not I, but the Lord), a woman not to be separated from her husband.
But if she is indeed separated, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband is not to leave his wife.
But to the rest I speak, not the Lord, If any brother has a wife who does not believe, and she is pleased to dwell with him, do not let him put her away.
And the woman who has a husband who does not believe, if he is pleased to dwell with her, do not let her leave him.
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband; else your children would be unclean, but now they are holy.
But if the unbelieving one separates, let them be separated. A brother or a sister is not in bondage in such cases, but God has called us in peace.
For what do you know, O wife, whether you shall save your husband? Or what do you know, O man, whether you shall save your wife?
But as God has distributed to each one, as the Lord has called each one, so let him walk. And so I ordain in all churches.
Was any called having been circumcised? Do not be uncircumcised. Was anyone called in uncircumcision? Do not be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God.
Let each one remain in the calling in which he was called.
Were you called as a slave? It does not matter to you, but if you are able to become free, use it rather.
For he who is called a slave in the Lord is a freed man of the Lord. And likewise, he who is called a free man is a slave of Christ.
You are bought with a price, do not be the slaves of men.
Each in whatever way he was called, brothers, in this remain with God.
But concerning virgins, I have no commandment from the Lord. Yet I give my judgment, as one who has obtained mercy from the Lord to be faithful.
Then I think this is good, because of the present necessity; that it is good for a man to be so.
Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you freed from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
But if you do marry, you have not sinned; and if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. But such shall have trouble in the flesh, but I spare you.
But this I say, brothers, The time is short. It remains that both those who have wives should be as not having one.
And they who weep are as though they did not weep. And they who rejoice are as though they did not rejoice. And they who buy are as though they did not possess.
And they who use this world are as not abusing it, for the fashion of this world is passing away.
But I desire you to be without anxiety. The one who is unmarried cares for the things that belong to the Lord, how to please the Lord.
But the one who is married cares for the things of the world, how to please his wife.
The wife and the virgin are different. The unmarried woman cares for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she who is married cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
And this I speak for your own profit, not that I may cast a snare on you, but for that which is right, and that you may attend on the Lord without distraction.
But if anyone thinks it behaving himself indecently toward his virginity (if he is past his prime, and so it ought to be) let him do what he will; he does not sin; let them marry.
But he who stands steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but who has authority over his own will (and has so judged in his heart that he will keep his virginity) he does well.
So then he who gives in marriage does well. But he who does not give in marriage does better.
The wife is bound by the law as long as her husband lives, but if her husband is dead, she is at liberty to be remarried to whom she will, only in the Lord.
But she is happier if she so remains, according to my judgment. And I also think that I have the Spirit of God.