And when any one bringeth a meal-offering unto HaShem, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon.
And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests; and he shall take thereout his handful of the fine flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, together with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall make the memorial-part thereof smoke upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto HaShem.
But that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'; it is a thing most holy of the offerings of HaShem made by fire.
And when thou bringest a meal-offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers spread with oil.
And if thy offering be a meal-offering baked on a griddle, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
Thou shalt break it in pieces, and pour oil thereon; it is a meal-offering.
And if thy offering be a meal-offering of the stewing-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
And thou shalt bring the meal-offering that is made of these things unto HaShem; and it shall be presented unto the priest, and he shall bring it unto the altar.
And the priest shall take off from the meal-offering the memorial-part thereof, and shall make it smoke upon the altar--an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto HaShem.
But that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'; it is a thing most holy of the offerings of HaShem made by fire.
No meal-offering, which ye shall bring unto HaShem, shall be made with leaven; for ye shall make no leaven, nor any honey, smoke as an offering made by fire unto HaShem.
As an offering of first-fruits ye may bring them unto HaShem; but they shall not come up for a sweet savour on the altar.
And every meal-offering of thine shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy G-d to be lacking from thy meal-offering; with all thy offerings thou shalt offer salt.
And if thou bring a meal-offering of first-fruits unto HaShem, thou shalt bring for the meal-offering of thy first-fruits corn in the ear parched with fire, even groats of the fresh ear.
And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon; it is a meal-offering.
And the priest shall make the memorial-part of it smoke, even of the groats thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; it is an offering made by fire unto HaShem.