Then shall spring forth a shoot from the stem of Jesse, And a sprout grow up from his roots.
The spirit of Jehovah shall rest upon him, The spirit of wisdom and understanding, The spirit of counsel and might, The spirit of the knowledge and of the fear of Jehovah,
He shall take delight in the fear of Jehovah; He shall not judge by the sight of his eyes, Nor decide by the hearing of his ears.
But with righteousness shall he judge the poor, And decide with equity for the afflicted of the land; He shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth; With the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.
Righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, And faithfulness the girdle of his reins.
Then shall the wolf dwell with the lamb, And the leopard shall lie down with the kid; The calf, and the young lion, and the fatling shall be together, And a little child shall lead them.
The cow and the bear shall feed together, Together shall their young lie down, And the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
The suckling shall play upon the hole of the asp, And the near-weaned child lay his hand on the hiding-place of the basilisk.
They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; For the land shall be full of the knowledge of Jehovah, As the waters cover the depths of the sea.
In that day shall the shoot of Jesse stand as a banner to the nations, And to him shall the gentiles repair, And his dwelling-place shall be glorious.
In that day shall Jehovah the second time stretch forth his hand To recover the remnant of his people, That remaineth, from Assyria, and from Egypt, And from Pathros, and from Ethiopia, and from Elam, And from Shinar, and from Hamath, And from the islands of the sea.
He shall set up a banner to the nations, And gather the outcasts of Israel, And bring together the dispersed of Judah, From the four extremities of the earth.
Then shall the jealousy of Ephraim depart, And the enmity in Judah be at an end; Ephraim shall not be jealous of Judah, And Judah shall not contend with Ephraim.
But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines at the sea; Together shall they plunder the children of the East; On Edom and Moab shall they lay their hand, And the sons of Ammon shall be subject to them.
Then will Jehovah utterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptian sea, And shake his hand over the river with a mighty wind, And smite it into seven streams, So that men may go over it dry-shod.
And it shall be a highway for the remnant of the people, Which shall remain, from Assyria, As there was to Israel, When he came up from the land of Egypt.