Therefore Pilate then took Jesus and scourged him.
And the soldiers having woven a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and put around him a purple garment.
And they said, Hail, king of the Jews! And they gave him slaps.
Therefore Pilate again went forth outside, and says to them, Behold, I bring him out to you, so that ye may know that I find not one cause in him.
Jesus therefore came outside, wearing the thorny crown and the purple robe. And he says to them, Look at the man!
When therefore the chief priests and the subordinates saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify him! Pilate says to them, Ye take him and crucify, for I find no cause in him.
The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die because he made himself the Son of God.
When Pilate therefore heard this word, he was more afraid.
And he went into the Praetorium again, and says to Jesus, Where are thou from? But Jesus gave him no answer.
Pilate therefore says to him, Thou do not speak to me? Know thou not that I have authority to crucify thee, and I have authority to release thee?
Jesus answered him, Thou would have no authority against me, unless it were given thee from above. Because of this he who delivered me to thee has greater sin.
From this Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou release this man, thou are not Caesar's friend. Every man who makes himself a king speaks against Caesar.
When Pilate therefore heard this word, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
Now it was the Preparation of the Passover, and about the sixth hour. And he says to the Jews, Look at your king!
But they cried out, Away, away, crucify him! Pilate says to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king except Caesar.
Therefore he then delivered him to them, so that he might be crucified, and they took and led Jesus away.
And he went out bearing his cross to a place called, of a Skull, a place that is called in Hebrew, Golgotha,
where they crucified him, and two others with him, on this side and that, and Jesus in the middle.
And Pilate also wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And it was written, JESUS THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Therefore many of the Jews read this title, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, in Latin.
Therefore the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write, The king of the Jews, but, That man said I am king of the Jews.
Pilate answered, What I have written I have written.
The soldiers therefore when they crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part, and also the tunic. But the tunic was a seamless weave, from the top throughout.
They said therefore among themselves, Let us not divide it, but cast a lot for it, whose it will be, so that the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, They parted my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast a lot. Therefore the soldiers indeed did these things.
And his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleopas, and Mary Magdalene had stood near the cross of Jesus.
When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing by, he says to his mother, Woman, behold thy son.
Then he says to the disciple, Behold, thy mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own place.
After this, Jesus, having seen that all things are now completed, so that the scripture might be fully complete, says, I thirst.
Therefore a vessel full of vinegar was set there. And having filled a sponge with the vinegar, and having put it around a hyssop, they brought it to his mouth.
When therefore Jesus received the vinegar, he said, It is finished, and after bowing his head, he gave up the spirit.
The Jews therefore, so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the sabbath, since it was Preparation (for it was the high day of that sabbath), they besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and they might be removed.
The soldiers therefore came, and indeed broke the legs of the first, and of the other man who was crucified with him.
But having come to Jesus, when they saw him now having died, they did not break his legs.
But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and straightaway blood and water came out.
And he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true. And that man knows that he speaks true, so that ye may believe.
For these things happened so that the scripture might be fulfilled, Not a bone of him will be broken.
And again another scripture says, They will look toward whom they pierced.
And after these things Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly because of fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might remove the body of Jesus, and Pilate allowed him. Therefore he came and removed the body of Jesus.
And Nicodemus also came (he who at the first came to Jesus by night) bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds.
So they took the body of Jesus, and wrapped it in linen cloths with the spices, just as is the custom of the Jews to bury.
Now a garden was in the place where he was crucified, and in the garden a new sepulcher in which no man was yet laid.
Therefore because of the Jews' Preparation (because the sepulcher was near) they laid Jesus there.