When therefore the Lord knew, that the Pharisees had heard—Jesus, more disciples, is making and immersing, than John,—
although indeed, Jesus himself, was not immersing, but his disciples,
he left Judaea, and departed again into Galilee.
Now he must needs pass through Samaria.
He cometh, therefore, unto a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the parcel of ground which Jacob gave unto Joseph his son.
Now Jacob’s fountain was there. Jesus, therefore, having become toil-worn with the journey, was sitting thus, upon the fountain. It was about the sixth hour.
There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus saith unto her—Give me to drink!
for, his disciples, had gone away into the city, that, food, they might buy.
The Samaritan woman, therefore, saith unto him—How dost, thou, being, a Jew, ask to drink, of me, who am, a Samaritan woman? [for, Jews, have no dealings with Samaritans.]
Jesus answered, and said unto her—If thou hadst known the free gift of God, and who it is that is saying unto thee, Give me to drink, thou, wouldst have asked him, and he would have given thee living water.
She saith unto him—Sir! not even a bucket, hast thou,—and, the well, is, deep:—Whence, then, hast thou the living water?
Art, thou, greater than, our father Jacob, who gave us the well,—and, himself, out of it drank, and his sons, and his flocks?
Jesus answered, and said unto her—Whosoever drinketh of this water, will thirst, again;
But, whosoever shall drink of the water which, I, will give him, in nowise shall thirst, unto times age-abiding,—but, the water which I will give him, shall become, within him, a fountain of water, springing up unto life age-abiding.
The woman saith unto him—Sir! give me this water, that I thirst not, neither be coming hither to draw.
He saith unto her—Go, call thy husband, and come hither!
The woman answered, and said [unto him]—I have no husband. Jesus saith unto her—Well, saidst thou, A husband, I have not;
for, five husbands, thou hast had,—and, now, he whom thou hast, is not thy, husband: This true thing, hast thou spoken.
The woman saith unto him—Sir! I perceive that, a prophet, art, thou:—
Our fathers, in this mountain, worshipped; and, ye, say, that, in Jerusalem, is the place, where, to worship, it behoveth.
Jesus saith unto her—Believe me, woman! There cometh an hour, when, neither in this mountain, nor yet in Jerusalem, shall ye worship the Father.
Ye, worship, that which ye know not; We, worship, that which we know; because, salvation, is, of the Jews.
But there cometh an hour, and, now, is,—when, the real worshippers, shall worship the Father in spirit and truth; for, even the Father, is seeking, such as these, as his worshippers.
God is, spirit; and, they that worship him, in spirit and truth, must needs worship.
The woman saith unto him—I know that, Messiah, cometh, who is called Christ,—Whensoever, he, shall come, he will tell us, everything.
Jesus saith unto her—I, that speak unto thee, am he.
And, hereupon, came his disciples, and they began to marvel, that, with a woman, he was talking. No one, however, said—What seekest thou? or—Why talkest thou with her?
The woman, therefore, left her water-vessel, and went away into the city, and saith unto the men—
Come! see a man, that told me all things that ever I did: Can, this, be, the Christ?
They came forth out of the city, and were coming unto him.
In the meantime, the disciples were requesting him, saying—Rabbi! eat.
But, he, said unto them—I, have, food, to eat, of which, ye, know not.
The disciples, therefore, began to say, one to another—Hath anyone brought him, to eat?
Jesus saith unto them—My food, is, that I should do the will of him that sent me, and complete, his work.
Are, ye, not saying—Yet, a fourmonth, it is, and, the harvest, cometh? Lo! I say unto you—Lift up your eyes, and gaze at the fields,—that, white, are they unto, harvest. Already,
he that reapeth, receiveth, a reward, and gathereth fruit unto life age-abiding; that, he that soweth, together may rejoice, with him that reapeth.
For, herein, doth the saying, hold good,—One, is the sower, and, another, is the reaper.
I, sent you forth, to be reaping that whereon, ye, have not toiled: Others, have toiled, and, ye, into their toil, have entered.
And, out of that city, many, believed on him—of the Samaritans,—by reason of the word of the woman in bearing witness—He told me all things that ever I did.
When, therefore, the Samaritans came unto him, they went on to request him to abide with them; and he abode there two days.
And, many more, believed by reason of his discourse;
and, unto the woman, began to say—No longer, by reason of thy talk, do we believe; for, we ourselves, have heard, and know that, This One, is, in truth, the Saviour of the world.
But, after the two days, he went forth from thence, into Galilee.
For, Jesus himself, bare witness, that, a prophet, in his own fatherland, hath not, honour.
So, when he came into Galilee, the Galilaeans welcomed him, having seen, all things, whatsoever he had done in Jerusalem during the feast; for, they also, went unto the feast.
So he came again into Cana of Galilee, where he had made the water, wine. And there was a certain courtier, whose son was sick, in Capernaum.
The same, hearing that Jesus had come out of Judaea into Galilee, came away unto him, and began requesting him, that he would come down and heal his son; for he was on the point of dying.
Jesus therefore said unto him—Except, signs and wonders, ye see, in nowise will ye believe.
The courtier saith unto him—Sir! come down, ere my child die!
Jesus saith unto him—Be going thy way: thy son, liveth! And the man believed in the word which Jesus spake to him, and at once went his way.
And, when he was even now going down, his servants, met him, saying, that, his boy, was living.
So he enquired the hour, from them, when he began, to amend. They said, therefore, unto him—Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him.
So the father took note that it was, in that hour, wherein Jesus said unto him—Thy son, liveth! and he believed, he, and all his house.
Now, this again, as, a second sign, Jesus did, after coming out of Judaea into Galilee.