Then sayde he to ye disciples it can not be avoyded but that offences will come. Neverthelesse wo be to him thorow whom they come.
It were better for him that a mylstone were hanged aboute his necke and that he were cast into ye see then that he shuld offende one of this lytleons.
Take hede to youre selves. If thy brother trespas agaynst the rebuke him:
and yf he repent forgeve him. And though he sinne agest ye .vii. tymes in a daye and seve tymes in a daye tourne agayne to ye sayinge: it repenteth me forgeve him
And the apostles sayde vnto the Lorde: increase oure faith.
And the Lorde sayde: yf ye had faith lyke a grayne of mustard sede and shuld saye vnto this sycamine tree plucke thy selfe vp by the rootes and plant thy selfe in the see: he should obey you.
Who is it of you yf he had a servaute plowinge or fedinge catell that wolde saye vnto him when he were come from the felde Goo quickly and syt doune to meate:
and wolde not rather saye to him dresse wherwith I maye sup and gyrde vp thy selfe and serve me tyll I have eaten and dronken: and afterwarde eate thou and drinke thou?
Doeth he thanke that servaunt because he dyd that which was commaunded vnto him? I trowe not.
Soo lyke wyse ye when ye have done all thoose thinges which are commaunded you: saye we are vnprofitable servautes. We have done: ye which was oure duetye to do.
And it chaunsed as he went to Ierusalem that he passed thorow Samaria and Galile.
And as he entred into a certayne toune ther met him ten men yt were lepers. Which stode a farre of
and put forth their voyces and sayde: Iesu master have mercy on vs.
When he sawe the he sayde vnto them: Goo and shewe youre selves to the prestes. And it chaunsed as they went they were clensed.
And one of them when he sawe that he was clensed turned backe agayne and with a loude voyce praysed God
and fell doune on his face at his fete and gave him thankes. And the same was a Samaritane.
And Iesus answered and sayde: are ther not ten clensed? But where are those nyne?
Ther are not founde that returned agane to geve God prayse save only this straunger.
And he sayde vnto him: aryse and goo thy waye thy faith hath made the whoale.
When he was demaunded of ye pharises when the kyngdome of God shuld come: he answered them and sayde: The kyngdome of God cometh not with waytinge for.
Nether shall men saye: Loo here loo there. For beholde the kyngdome of God is with in you.
And he sayde vnto the disciples: The dayes will come when ye shall desyre to se one daye of the sonne of man and ye shall not se it.
And they shall saye to you: Se here Se there. Goo not after them nor folowe them
for as the lyghtenynge that apereth out of the one parte of the heven and shyneth vnto the other parte of heven: Soo shall the sonne of man be in his dayes.
But fyrst must he suffre many thinges and be refused of this nacion.
As it happened in ye tyme of Noe: So shall it be in the tyme of the sonne of man.
They ate they dranke they maryed wyves and were maryed even vnto yt same daye yt Noe went into ye arke: and ye floud cam and destroyed the all.
Lykewyse also as it chaunsed in the dayes of Lot. They ate they dranke they bought they solde they planted they bilte.
And even the same daye that Lot went out of Zodom it rayned fyre and brymstone from heven and destroyed them all.
After these ensamples shall it be in the daye when the sonne of man shall appere.
At that daye he that is on the housse toppe and his stuffe in the housse: let him not come doune to take it out. And lykewyse let not him that is in the feldes turne backe agayne to that he lefte behynde.
Remember Lottes wyfe.
Whosoever will goo about to save his lyfe shall loose it: And whosoever shall loose his lyfe shall save it.
I tell you: In that nyght ther shalbe two in one beed the one shalbe receaved and the other shalbe forsaken.
Two shalbe also a grindynge to gedder: the one shalbe receaved and the other forsaken.
And they answered and sayde to him: wheare Lorde? And he sayd vnto the: whersoever ye body shalbe thyther will the egles resoorte.
