This, then is the commandment—[namely] the statutes and the regulations, which Yahweh your God hath commanded to teach you,—that ye may do them in the land whither ye are passing over to possess it:
that thou mayest revere Yahweh thy God, [so as] to keep all his statutes and his commandments which I am commanding thee, thou and thy son and thy sons’ son, all the days of thy life,—and that thy days may be prolonged.
Therefore shalt thou hear, O Israel, and shalt observe to do, that it may be well with thee, and that ye may multiply greatly, as Yahweh the God of thy fathers hath spoken to thee, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
Hear, O Israel: Yahweh, is our God,—Yahweh alone.
Thou shalt therefore love Yahweh thy God,—with all thy heart and with all thy soul, and with all thy might;
so shall these words which I am commanding thee to-day, be upon thy heart;
and thou shalt impress them upon thy sons, and shalt speak of them,—when thou sittest in thy house and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down and when thou risest up;
and thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand,—and they shall serve for bands between thine eyes;
and thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house and within thy gates.
So shall it be, when Yahweh thy God shall bring thee into the land, which he sware to thy fathers—to Abraham to Isaac and to Jacob to give unto thee,—into cities great and goodly, which thou didst not build;
and houses full of all good things, which thou filledst not, and hewn cisterns which thou hewedst not, vineyards and oliveyards which thou plantedst not,—and shalt eat and be full,
take heed unto thyself, lest thou forget Yahweh,—who brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt out of the house of servants.
Yahweh thy God, shalt thou revere And him, shalt thou serve,—And by his name, shalt thou swear.
Ye shall not go after other gods,—of the gods of the peoples who are surrounding you;
for a jealous GOD, is Yahweh thy God in thy midst,—lest the anger of Yahweh thy God kindle upon thee, and so he destroy thee from off the face of the ground.
Ye shall not put Yahweh your God to the proof,—as ye put him to the proof in Massah [that is, "The place of proving"] .
Ye shall, keep, the commandments of Yahweh your God and his testimonies and his statutes which he hath commanded thee;
so shalt thou do what is right and what is pleasing in the eyes of Yahweh,—that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest enter in and possess the good land, which Yahweh sware unto thy fathers;
to thrust out all thine enemies from before thee,—As spake Yahweh.
When thy son shall ask thee in time to come, saying,—What mean the testimonies and the statutes and the regulations, which Yahweh our God commanded you?
Then shalt thou say unto thy son, Servants, were we unto Pharaoh in Egypt,—and Yahweh brought us forth out of Egypt with a firm hand;
and Yahweh put forth signs and wonders great and sore upon Egypt upon Pharaoh and upon all his household before our eyes;
but he brought us forth from thence,—that he might bring us in, to give unto us the land, which he sware unto our fathers.
So then Yahweh commanded us to do all these statutes, to revere Yahweh our God,—for our good, all the days, to preserve us alive (as at this day);
and righteousness, shall it be to us,—when we take heed to do all this commandment, before Yahweh our God, as he commanded us.