I will sing of the loving kindness of Jehovah forever. With my mouth I will make known thy faithfulness to all generations.
For I have said, Mercy shall be built up forever. Thy faithfulness thou will establish in the very heavens.
I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn to David my servant:
Thy seed I will establish forever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah.
And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O Jehovah, thy faithfulness also in the assembly of the sanctified.
For who in the clouds can be compared to Jehovah? Who among the sons of the mighty is like Jehovah,
a God very awesome in the council of the holy ones, and to be feared above all those who are round about him?
O Jehovah God of hosts, who is a mighty one like thee, O Jehovah? And thy faithfulness is round about thee.
Thou rule the pride of the sea. When the waves of it arise, thou still them.
Thou have broken Rahab in pieces, as a wounded man. Thou have scattered thine enemies with the arm of thy strength.
The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine, the world and the fullness of it; thou have founded them.
The north and the south, thou have created them. Tabor and Hermon rejoice in thy name.
Thou have a mighty arm. Strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand.
Righteousness and justice are the foundation of thy throne. Loving kindness and truth go before thy face.
Blessed is the people who know the joyful sound. They walk, O Jehovah, in the light of thy countenance.
In thy name do they rejoice all the day, and in thy righteousness are they exalted.
For thou are the glory of their strength, and in thy favor our horn shall be exalted.
For our shield belongs to Jehovah, and our king to the Holy One of Israel.
Then thou spoke in a vision to thy sanctified, and said, I have laid help upon a mighty man. I have exalted a chosen man out of the people.
I have found David my servant. With my holy oil I have anointed him,
with whom my hand shall be established. My arm also shall strengthen him.
The enemy shall not exact from him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
And I will beat down his adversaries before him, and smite those who hate him,
but my faithfulness and my loving kindness shall be with him, and in my name shall his horn be exalted.
I will also set his hand on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers.
He shall cry to me, Thou are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.
I also will make him firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth.
I will keep my loving kindness for him for evermore. And my covenant shall stand fast with him.
I will also make his seed to endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven.
If his sons forsake my law, and walk not in my ordinances,
if they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments,
then I will visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes,
but my loving kindness I will not utterly take from him, nor allow my faithfulness to fail.
I will not break my covenant, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.
I have sworn once by my holiness; I will not lie to David.
His seed shall endure forever, and his throne as the sun before me.
It shall be established forever as the moon, and as the faithful witness in the sky. Selah.
But thou have cast off and rejected. Thou have been angry with thine anointed.
Thou have abhorred the covenant of thy servant. Thou have profaned his crown to the ground.
Thou have broken down all his hedges. Thou have brought his strongholds to ruin.
All who pass by the way rob him. He has become a reproach to his neighbors.
Thou have exalted the right hand of his adversaries. Thou have made all his enemies to rejoice.
Yea, thou turn back the edge of his sword, and have not made him to stand in the battle.
Thou have made his brightness to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.
The days of his youth thou have shortened. Thou have covered him with shame. Selah.
How long, O Jehovah? Will thou hide thyself forever? Shall thy wrath burn like fire?
O remember how short my time is, for what vanity thou have created all the sons of men!
What man is he who shall live and not see death, who shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah.
Lord, where are thy former loving kindnesses, which thou swore to David in thy faithfulness?
Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants, how I bear in my bosom all the mighty peoples,
with which thine enemies have reproached, O Jehovah, with which they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.
Blessed be Jehovah for evermore. Truly, and Truly.