Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
Send for thee men and let them spy out the land of Canaan, which I am giving unto the sons of Israel,—one man each for the tribe of his fathers, shalt thou send, each one a prince among them.
So then Moses sent them out of the desert of Paran, at the bidding of Yahweh,—all of them, great men, heads of the sons of Israel, were they.
And, these, are their names,—Of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua, son of Zaccur;
Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat, son of Hori;
Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb, son of Jephunneh;
Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal, son of Joseph;
Of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea, son of Nun;
Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti, son of Raphu;
Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel, son of Sodi;
Of the tribe of Joseph—of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi son of Susi;
Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel, son of Gemalli;
Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur, son of Michael;
Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi, son of Vophsi;
Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel, son of Machi.
These, are the names of the men, whom Moses sent to spy out the land,—but Moses called Hoshea son of Nun, Joshua.
So Moses sent them, to spy out the land of Canaan,—and said unto them—Go up, here in the South, Yea ye shall go up the mountain;
And shall see the land, what it is,—And the people that dwell thereupon, Whether they are, strong, or weak, Whether they are, few or many;
And what, the land, is, wherein they dwell, Whether it is, good, or, bad,—And the cities within which they dwell, Whether in camps or in strongholds;
And what the land is, Whether, fat, or, lean, Whether there is timber therein or is not, Then shall ye pluck up courage and take of the fruit of the land. Now the days, were the days of the first-fruits of grapes.
So they went up, and spied out the land,—from the wilderness of Zin unto Rehob at the entering in of Hamath.
Yea they went up in the South and entered as far as Hebron, and there, were Ahiman Sheshai and Talmai descendants of the Anak. Now, Hebron, was built seven years, before Zoan of Egypt.
And they entered as far as the ravine of Eschol, and cut down, from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and bare it on a pole between two,—also of the pomegranates and of the figs.
That place, was called, The Ravine of Eschol [="Cluster-ravine"]—on account of the cluster, which was cut down from thence by the sons of Israel.
And they returned from spying out the land,—at the end of forty days.
So they took their journey, and came in unto Moses and unto Aaron and unto all the assembly of the sons of Israel into the wilderness of Paran, towards Kadesh,—and brought back word—unto them and unto all the assembly, and showed them the fruit of the land.
And they recounted unto him, and said, We entered into the land whither thou didst send us, and surely it doth flow with milk and honey, and, this, is the fruit thereof.
Nevertheless surely mighty, are the people that dwell in the land,—and, the cities, walled in, exceeding great, moreover also, the descendants of the Anak, saw we there.
Amalek, dwelleth in the land of the South; And, the Hittite, and the Jebusite and the Amorite, dwell in the mountain And the Canaanite, dwelleth by the sea, and by the side of the Jordan.
And Caleb stilled the people unto Moses,—and said unto them—Let us go straight up, and possess it, for we shall, surely prevail, against it.
But the men who went up with him said, We cannot go up against the people,—for stronger, are they than we.
So they sent forth a rumour of the land which they had spied out, among the sons of Israel, saying,—As touching the land through which we passed to spy it out, it is, land that eateth up them who dwell therein, And all the people that we saw in the midst thereof, were men of great stature.
And, there, saw we the giants, sons of Anak [descended] of the giants,—And we were in our own eyes, as grass-hoppers, And, so, were we in their eyes.