NOW before the feast of the passover, Jesus, knowing that his hour was come, that he should go out of this world to the Father, having loved his peculiar people that are in the world, he loved them to the end.
And supper being served, (the devil having now injected into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, that he should betray him;)
Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came out from God, and was going to God;
he rises from supper, and lays aside his garments, and taking a towel, he wound it about himself.
Then he poureth water into a bason, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was begirt.
Then cometh he to Simon Peter: and he saith to him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet?
Jesus answered and said to him, What I am doing thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter.
Peter saith to him, Thou shalt never wash my feet: no, never. Jesus answered him, Except I wash thee, thou hast no part with me.
Simon Peter saith to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head.
Jesus saith to him, He that is washed hath need only to wash his feet, for he is entirely clean: and ye are clean, but not all.
(For he knew who would betray him; therefore he said, Ye are not all clean.)
When therefore he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, and sat down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done unto you?
Ye call me Master, and Lord: and ye speak truly; for such I am.
If therefore I have washed your feet, though the Lord and the Master; ye also ought to wash one another’s feet.
For I have given you an example, that just as I have done to you, ye should do also.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his master; nor the messenger greater than him that sent him.
If ye know these things, blessed are ye if ye practise them.
I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me, hath lift up his heel against me.
Now I tell you previously, before this comes to pass, that, when it cometh to pass, ye may believe that I am.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I shall send, receiveth me; and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me.
As Jesus was speaking these words, he was greatly agitated in spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.
Then the disciples looked one at another, doubting of whom he spake.
Now there was one of the disciples reclining on the bosom of Jesus, whom Jesus loved.
Therefore Simon Peter gave him a significant look, that he should inquire of Jesus, which of them it should be of whom he spake.
And he leaning on the breast of Jesus, said to him, Lord, which is it?
Jesus answered, It is he to whom I shall give this morsel of bread, when I have dipped it. And dipping the morsel of bread, he gave it unto Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
And after the sop, then entered Satan into him. Jesus saith to him, What thou doest, do quickly.
Now none of those who sat at table knew wherefore he had spoken to him.
For some supposed, as Judas kept the purse, that Jesus was saying to him, Buy what we need for the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.
Having then received the sop, he went out immediately: now it was night.
When therefore he was gone, Jesus saith, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him with himself, and immediately glorify him.
My dear children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: as I said to the Jews, Whither I am going, ye cannot come; so say I now to you.
A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; even as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.
By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.
Simon Peter saith to him, Lord, Whither art thou going? Jesus answered him, Whither I am going, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me hereafter.
Peter saith to him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thee.
Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for me? Verily, verily, I tell thee, the cock will not crow, before thou shalt deny me thrice.