And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers unto David, and timber of cedars, with masons and artificers, to build for him a house.
So David perceived, that Yahweh, had confirmed him, as king over Israel,—that his kingship was exalted, for the sake of his people Israel.
And David took more wives, in Jerusalem,—and David begat more sons and daughters.
Now, these, are the names of them who were born, whom he had in Jerusalem,—Shammua and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon;
and Ibhar and Elishua, and Elpelet;
and Nogah and Nepheg, and Japhia;
and Elishama and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.
And, when the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek to secure David,—and David, hearing, went out against them.
Now, the Philistines, had come and spread themselves out, in the vale of Rephaim.
Then David asked of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And Yahweh said to him, Go up, and I will deliver them into thy hand.
So they came up in Baal-perazim, and David smote them there, and David said, God hath broken forth against mine enemies by my hand, like the breaking forth of waters,—For this cause, called they the name of that place, Baal-perazim.
And they left their gods there,—and David gave the word, and they were burned up in fire.
And the Philistines yet again spread themselves out in the vale.
So David, asked again, of God, and God said to him, Thou shalt not go up after them,—get thee round, away from them, so shalt thou come in upon them, over against the mulberry-trees;
and it shall be, when thou hearest a sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry-trees, then, shalt thou go forth into the battle,—for God will have gone forth before thee, to smite the host of the Philistines.
So David did as God commanded him,—and they smote the host of the Philistines, from Gibeon even unto Gezer.
And the name of David went forth, throughout all the lands,—and, Yahweh, put the dread of him upon all the nations.