But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you.
For ye know well that the day of the Lord shall come as a thief in the night.
For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction shall come upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.
But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should take you as a thief.
Ye are all the sons of light, and the sons of the day; we are not of the night, nor of darkness.
Therefore let us not sleep, as [do] others; but let us watch and be sober.
For those that sleep sleep in the night, and those that are drunken are drunken in the night.
But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and charity, and for a helmet, the hope of saving health.
For God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain saving health by our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, that whether we watch or sleep, we should live together with him.
Therefore comfort and edify one another, even as ye do.
And we beseech you, brethren, to recognize those who labour among you and preside [over] you in the Lord and admonish you
and that you express greater charity unto them for their work's sake. [And] be at peace among yourselves.
We also exhort you, brethren, that you warn those that are unruly, comfort the fainthearted, support the weak, be patient with everyone.
See that no one renders evil for evil unto anyone, but always follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all [men].
Always rejoice.
Pray without ceasing.
In every thing give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.
Quench not the Spirit.
Despise not prophecies.
Examine all things; retain that which is good.
Separate yourselves from all appearance of evil.
And the very God of peace sanctify you completely, that your spirit, soul, and body be preserved whole without reprehension for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful [is] he that has called you, who will also do [it].
Brethren, pray for us.
Greet all the brethren with a holy kiss.
I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the holy brethren.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [be] with you. Amen.: