After these things, Jesus manifested himself again, unto the disciples, by the sea of Tiberias; and manifested himself, thus:—
There were together, Simon Peter, and Thomas, who was called Didymus, and Nathanael, who was from Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and, two other, of his disciples.
Simon Peter saith unto them—I go a fishing! They say unto him—We also, go with thee! They went out, and got up into the boat, and during that night, they caught nothing.
But, morning by this time drawing on, Jesus stood upon the beach; nevertheless, the disciples knew not that it was, Jesus.
Jesus, therefore, saith unto them—Children! perhaps ye have nothing to eat? They answered him—No.
And, he, said unto them—Cast the net, on the right side of the boat,—and ye shall find. They cast, therefore; and, no longer, were they able, to draw, it, for the multitude of the fishes.
That disciple, therefore, whom Jesus loved, saith unto Peter—It is, the Lord! Simon Peter, therefore, hearing that it was the Lord, girded about him, his upper garment,—for he was naked; and cast himself into the sea;
but, the other disciples, came, by the little boat,—for they were not farther from the land than about two hundred cubits off,—dragging the net of fishes.
So, when they got out upon the land, they behold a coal fire lying, and fish lying over, and bread.
Jesus saith unto them—Bring of the fish which ye caught just now.
Simon Peter, therefore, went on board, and drew the net on to the land,—full of large fishes, a hundred and fifty-three; and, though they were so many, the net was not rent.
Jesus saith unto them—Come! break your fast. Not one, of the disciples was venturing to ask him, Who art, thou? knowing that it was, the Lord.
Jesus cometh, and taketh the bread, and giveth unto them; and the fish, in like manner.
This, already, is the third time Jesus was manifested unto the disciples, after he was raised from among the dead.
When, therefore, they had broken their fast, Jesus saith unto Simon Peter—Simon, son of John! lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him—Yea, Lord! thou, knowest that I am fond of thee, he saith unto him—Be feeding my lambs.
He saith unto him, again, the second time—Simon, son of John! lovest thou me? He saith unto him—Yea, Lord! thou, knowest that I am fond of thee. He saith unto him—Be shepherding my sheep.
He saith unto him, the third time—Simon, son of John! art thou fond of me? Peter was grieved, that he said unto him, the third time, Art thou fond of me? and he said unto him—Lord! all things, thou, knowest: thou perceivest that I am fond of thee. Jesus saith unto him—Be feeding my sheep.
Verily, verily, I say unto thee—When thou wast younger, thou usedst to gird thyself, and to walk whither thou didst choose; but, when thou shalt become aged, thou shalt stretch out thy hands, and, another, shall gird thee, and bear thee, whither thou dost not choose.
Now, this, he said, signifying, by what manner of death, he should glorify God. And, having said this, he saith unto him—Be following me.
Peter, turning about, beholdeth the disciple whom Jesus loved, following,—who also reclined during the supper upon his breast, and said—Lord, who is it that is delivering thee up?
Peter, therefore, seeing, this one, saith unto Jesus—Lord! and, this one, what?
Jesus saith unto him—If I will that, he, remain until I come, what is that to thee? Thou, be following me.
This word, therefore, went forth unto the brethren, that, that disciple, should not die. Howbeit, Jesus did not tell him, he should not die; but, If I will that, he, remain until I come, what is that to thee?
This, is the disciple who beareth witness concerning these things, and who hath written these things; and we know that, true, is, his witness.
Now there are many other things also, which Jesus did, which, indeed, if they were to be written one by one, not even the world, itself, I suppose, would contain, the books which must be written.