And Solomon the son of David was made strong in his kingdom, and the LORD his God was with him and made him very great.
And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every governor in all Israel, the chief of the fathers.
And Solomon and all the congregation with him went to the high place at Gibeon. For there was the tabernacle of the congregation of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in the wilderness.
But the ark of God David had brought up from Kirjath-jearim to the place which David had prepared for it, for he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem.
And he put the bronze altar which Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made before the tabernacle of the LORD. And Solomon and the congregation of the LORD sought to it.
And Solomon went up there to the bronze altar before the LORD, which was at the tabernacle of the congregation, and offered a thousand burnt offerings on it.
In that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, Ask what I shall give you.
And Solomon said to God, You have shown great mercy to David my father, and have made me to reign in his stead.
Now, O LORD God, Your promise to David my father has been fulfilled. For You have made me king over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude.
Give me now wisdom and knowledge that I may go out and come in before this people. For who can judge this Your great people?
And God said to Solomon, Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked riches, wealth, nor honor, nor the life of your enemies, nor yet have asked for long life but have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself that you may judge My people, over whom I have made you king.
wisdom and knowledge is granted to you. And I will give you riches and wealth and honor, such as none of the kings have had that have been before you, nor shall any after you have the like.
And Solomon came from the high place that was at Gibeon to Jerusalem, from before the tabernacle of the congregation, and reigned over Israel.
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. And he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen which he placed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
And the king made silver and gold at Jerusalem like stones, and he made cedar trees as plentiful as the sycamore trees in the valley.
And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt and Kue. The king's merchants received them from Kue at a price.
And they carried up, and brought forth out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty. And so they brought out horses for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, by their hands.