Moreover, brothers, I would that ye not ignore how our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea
and were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea
and did all eat the same spiritual food
and did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them; and that Rock was the Christ.
But with many of them God was not pleased; therefore, they were overthrown in the wilderness.
Now these things became types of us, that we should not lust after evil things as they lusted.
Neither be ye idolaters, as [were] some of them; as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.
Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed and fell [dead]: in one day, twenty-three thousand.
Neither let us tempt the Christ, as some of them also tempted and perished by the serpents.
Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured and perished by the destroyer.
Now all these things happened unto them as types, and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the ages are come.
Therefore let him that thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.
No temptation has taken you but such as is common to man, but God [is] faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above what ye are able but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear [it].
Therefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry.
I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say.
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not [the] fellowship of the blood of the Christ? The bread which we break, is it not [the] fellowship of the body of the Christ?
For one loaf [of bread means] that many are one body, for we are all partakers of that one loaf.
Behold Israel after the flesh: are not those who eat of the sacrifices participants of the altar?
What do I say then? that the idol is anything or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything?
But I [say] that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God; and I would not that ye should be participants of demons.
Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; ye cannot be participants of the Lord's table and of the table of demons.
Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he?
All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient; all things are lawful for me, but all things do not edify.
Let no one seek his own good, but that of the other.
Whatever is sold in the market, [that] eat, asking no question for conscience sake;
for the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof.
If any of those that do not believe bid you [to a feast], and ye are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you asking no questions for conscience sake.
But if anyone says unto you, This is offered in sacrifice unto idols, do not eat [it] for the sake of him that disclosed it and for conscience sake; for the earth [is] the Lord's, and the fullness thereof:
conscience, I say, not thine own, but of the other, for why should my liberty [be] judged by another [man's] conscience?
For if I by grace am a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks?
Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatever ye do, do everything for the glory of God.
Be without offense, neither to the Jews nor to the Gentiles nor to the church of God;
even as I please everyone in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the [profit] of many, that they may be saved.: