The sons of Judah were Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
And Reaiah the son of Shobal fathered Jahath. And Jahath fathered Ahumai, and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.
And these were of the father of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash; and their sister's name was Hazelelponi;
and Penuel the father of Gedor; and Ezer the father of Hushah; these are the sons of Hur, the first-born of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.
And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
And Naarah bore to him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
And the sons of Helah: Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.
And Coz fathered Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel, the son of Harum.
And Jabez was more honorable than his brothers. And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bore with sorrow.
And Jabez called to the God of Israel, saying, If indeed You would bless me, and make my border larger, and Your hand would be with me, and that You would keep me from evil so that it may not grieve me! And God gave him what he asked.
And Chelub the brother of Shuah fathered Mahir; he was the father of Eshton.
And Eshton fathered Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Irnahash. These are the men of Rechah.
And the sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. And the son of Othniel was Hathath.
And Meonothai fathered Ophrah. And Seraiah fathered Joab, the father of the Valley of the Craftsmen; for they were craftsmen.
And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam. And Elah's son was Kenaz.
And the sons of Jehaleleel were Ziph and Ziphah; Tiria and Asareel.
And the sons of Ezra: Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon. And she conceived Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah, Eshtemoa's father.
And his wife Jehudijah bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took.
And the sons of his wife were Hodiah the sister of Naham, the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.
And the sons of Shimon were Amnon, and Rinnah, Benhanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Benzoheth.
The sons of Shelah the son of Judah: Er, the father of Lecah; and Laadah the father of Mareshah; and the families of the house of those who worked fine linen, from the house of Ashbea;
and Jokim; and the men of Chozeba; and Joash, and Saraph; who ruled over Moab; and Jashubilehem. And these are ancient things.
These the potters, and those who lived among plants and hedges They lived there with the king for his work.
The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
Shallum was his son; Mibsam, his son; Mishma, his son.
And the sons of Mishma: Hamuel his son; Zacchur, his son; Shimei, his son.
And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters. But his brothers did not have many sons, nor did all their family multiply like the sons of Judah.
And they lived at Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazar-shual,
and at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
and at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
and at Beth-marcaboth, and at Hazar-susim, and at Beth-birei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of David.
And their villages were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities.
And all their villages were all around these cities, to Baal. This is their family line and their dwellings,
and Meshobab; and Jamlech; and Joshah, the son of Amaziah;
and Joel; and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel;
and Elioenai; and Jaakobah; and Jeshohaiah; and Asaiah; and Adiel; and Jesimiel; and Benaiah;
and Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah;
these going by name were rulers in their families. And the house of their fathers increased to a multitude.
And they went to the entrance of Gedor, to the east side of the valley to look for pasture for their flocks.
And they found pasture, fertile and good, for the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for those of Ham who lived there were of old.
And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and struck their tents, and the homes found there, and completely destroyed them until this day. And they lived in their places, because there was pasture there for their flocks.
And some of them, five hundred men of the sons of Simeon went to Mount Seir. And they had as their commanders, Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the son of Ishi.
And they struck the rest which escaped to Amalek, and lived there until this day.