And a reed like a rod was given to me; and it was said: Rise and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and those who worship in it.
But the court that is without the temple leave out, and measure it not: for it is given to the Gentiles, and the holy city they shall tread under foot forty-two months.
And I will give to my two witnesses, that they may prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
These are the two olive trees, and the two lamps that stand before the Lord of the earth.
And if any man will injure them, fire proceeds out of their mouth, and devours their enemies; and if any one will injure them, he must be killed in this way.
These have authority to shut heaven, that it may not rain in the days of their prophecy; and they have authority over the waters, to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with every plague, as often as they wish.
And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascends out of the abyss will make war with them, and overcome them, and kill them.
And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which, spiritually, is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.
And some of the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations will see their dead bodies three days and a half, and will not suffer their dead bodies to be put into sepulchers.
And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them, and make merry, and will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those who dwelt on the earth.
And after the three days and a half, the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon those who saw them.
And they heard a great voice from heaven, saying to them: Come up hither. And they went up into heaven in a cloud, and their enemies beheld them.
And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell; and in the earthquake there were slain names of men, seven thousand: and the rest were frightened, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second woe is past: behold, the third woe comes quickly.
And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying: The kingdom of the world has become our Lord’s and his Christ’s, and he shall reign from age to age.
And the twenty-four elders that sat before God on their thrones, fell upon their faces, and worshiped God,
saying: We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, who art, and who wast, because thou hast taken thy great power, and hast reigned.
And the nations were angry, and thy wrath has come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldst give reward to thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to those who fear thy name, both small and great, and that thou shouldst destroy those who corrupt the earth.
And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple, the ark of the covenant of the Lord; and there were lightnings and voices and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.