AND the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the Passover, was at hand.
And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might destroy him; for they were afraid of the people.
Then entered Satan into Judas called Iscariot, though he was of the number of the twelve.
And he went and conversed with the chief priests and the captains, by what means he could betray him unto them.
And they were glad, and agreed with him to give him a sum of money.
And he gave them his promise, and sought the favourable opportunity to betray him to them, in the absence of the multitude.
Then came the day of unleavened bread, on which the passover must be killed.
And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go, prepare for us the passover, that we may eat it.
And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare it?
And he said unto them, Lo! as you are at the entrance of the city, there will a man meet you, carrying a pitcher of water; follow him into the house whither he is going.
And say to the master of that family, The teacher saith to thee, Where is the dining-room, in which I can eat the passover with my disciples?
And he will shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready.
And they going away, found it just as he had told them: and they made ready the passover.
And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him.
And he said unto them, With earnest desire have I longed to eat this passover with you before I suffer:
for I tell you, that I will no more ever eat of it, until it shall be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And taking the cup, after having given thanks, he said, Take this, and divide among yourselves:
for I say unto you, that I shall no more drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God come.
And taking a loaf, he gave thanks, and brake, and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: do this in remembrance of me.
And the cup in like manner, after supper, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you.
But lo! the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me at the table.
And the Son of man indeed goeth, as is decreed: but wo to that man by whom he is betrayed!
And they began to question among themselves, who it could possibly be of them who should do this thing.
Now it came to pass, that there was also a contention among them, even which of them should be accounted to be the greatest.
And he said to them, The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them; and they who exercise authority over them are called benefactors.
But ye shall not act thus: but the superior among you, let him be as the junior; and he that presideth, as he that serveth.
For which is the greater, he that sitteth at table, or he that waits? is not he that sitteth at table? but I am in the midst of you as he that serveth.
Ye are they who have continued with me during my trials.
And I appoint you, as my Father hath appointed me, a kingdom;
that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and be seated on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, lo! Satan hath earnestly sought you, that he might sift you as wheat:
but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith may not fail: and when thou art returned, stablish thy brethren.
Then he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, to prison, and to death!
And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before thou shalt thrice deny having known me.
And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse, or scrip, or sandals, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.
Then said he to them, But now, he that hath a purse, let him also take a scrip: and he that hath none, let him sell his cloak, and buy a sword.
For I tell you, that what hath already been written must be fulfilled in me, namely, “He was numbered with the transgressors:” for the things also concerning me draw to their period.
Then they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords, and he said to them, It is enough.
And going out, he went, according to his custom, to the mount of Olives; and his disciples also followed him.
And when he came to the spot, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation.
And he withdrew from them about a stone’s cast, and kneeling down, he prayed,
saying, Father, if thou wilt, remove this cup from me! nevertheless, not my will, but thine, be done.
And an angel from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him.
And being in an agony, he prayed with greater intenseness: and his sweat was as clots of blood falling on the ground.
And when he rose up from prayer, on coming to his disciples, he found them sleeping from sorrow.
And he said unto them, Why sleep ye? rise up, and pray, that ye enter not into temptation.
And while he was yet speaking, behold a multitude, and he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and approached Jesus to kiss him.
Then said Jesus unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss?
Then when they who were about him saw what was ready to happen, they said unto him, Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
And one of them struck at a servant of the high-priest, and cut off his right ear.
Then Jesus, addressing them, said, Permit me thus far: and touching his ear, he healed him.
Then said Jesus to the chief priests and captains of the temple, and to the elders who were come forth against him, Are ye come out as against a robber, with swords and staves?
When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched out no hands upon me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
Then seizing upon him, they led him away, and brought him into the palace of the high-priest. But Peter followed at a distance.
And as they had lighted a fire in the middle of the hall, and had seated themselves in a company, Peter sat down in the midst of them.
But a certain maid-servant who sat at the fire, eyeing him, and looking at him stedfastly, said, This man was also with him.
But he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
And after a little while another seeing him, said, Surely thou art one of them. Then said Peter, Man, I am not.
And at about an hour’s distance, another person strongly asserted, saying, Of a certainty this fellow was also with him: for he too is a Galilean.
And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And instantly, while he was yet speaking, the cock crew.
And the Lord, turning round, looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said to him, That before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.
And Peter going without, wept bitterly.
And the men who held Jesus insulted him, beating him with rods;
and blindfolding him, smote him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is he that struck thee?
And many other things, blaspheming, spake they against him.
And when the day broke, the elders of the people and the chief priests and scribes assembled, and brought him into their sanhedrim, saying,
If thou art the Messiah, tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe:
and if I shall ask you any question, ye will neither answer me, nor let me go free.
Hereafter shall the Son of man sit at the right hand of the power of God.
Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Yourselves say that I am.
Then they said, What further need have we of witness? for we have heard it from his own mouth.