And the word of Jehovah was to Jeremiah the second time, while he was still shut up in the court of the guard, saying,
So says Jehovah its Maker, Jehovah who formed it in order to establish it; Jehovah is His name:
Call to Me, and I will answer you; and I will tell you great and inscrutable things; you do not know them.
For so says Jehovah, the God of Israel, Concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which are torn down to defend against the siege mounds, and against the sword,
they come to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men whom I have struck in My anger and in My wrath, and for whom I have hidden My face from this city, because of all their evil.
Behold, I will bring health and healing to it, and I will heal them and will show them the abundance of peace and truth.
And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will build them, as at the first.
And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity which they have sinned against Me; and I will pardon all their iniquities which they have sinned against Me, and which they have rebelled against Me.
And it shall be a name of joy to Me, a praise and a glory to all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the good that I do for them. And they shall fear and tremble for all the goodness and for all the peace that I do for it.
So says Jehovah, Again there shall be heard in this place, which you say shall be waste without man and without beast, in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate without man, without inhabitant, and without beast,
the voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the voice of those saying, Praise Jehovah of Hosts, for Jehovah is good, for His mercy endures forever; those who shall bring the sacrifice of thanksgiving into the house of Jehovah. For I will bring back the captivity of the land, as at the first, says Jehovah.
So says Jehovah of Hosts, Again in this place which is a waste without man or even beast, and in all its cities shall be a home of shepherds causing flocks to lie down.
In the cities of the mountains, in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the Negeb, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the places around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the flocks shall pass again under the hands of him who tallies, says Jehovah.
Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will fulfill the good thing which I have promised to the house of Israel and to the house of Judah.
In those days, and at that time, I will cause a Branch of righteousness to grow up to David. And He shall do judgment and righteousness in the land.
In those days Judah shall be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell in safety. And this is the name that shall be called on her: JEHOVAH OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS.
For so says Jehovah, Not a man sitting on the throne of the house of Israel will be cut off to David.
And for the Levitical priests, they shall not have a man cut off before Me to offer burnt offerings, and to kindle grain offerings, and to do sacrifice continually.
And the word of Jehovah was to Jeremiah, saying,
So says Jehovah, If you can break My covenant of the day, and My covenant of the night, and there should not be day and night in their time,
then My covenant with My servant David may also be broken, that he should not have a son to reign on his throne, and with the Levitical priests, My ministers.
As the host of the heavens cannot be numbered, nor the sand of the sea measured, so I will multiply the seed of My servant David, and the Levites who minister to Me.
And the word of Jehovah was to Jeremiah, saying,
Have you not observed what these people have spoken, saying, The two families that Jehovah has chosen, He has also rejected them? And they despise My people, no more to be a nation before them.
So says Jehovah, If My covenant is not with day and night, and if I have not appointed the ordinances of the heavens and earth,
then I also will reject the seed of Jacob, and My servant David, not to take of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. For I will bring back their captivity and have pity on them.