A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight.
When pride comes, then comes shame: but with the lowly is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.
Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivers from death.
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness.
When a wicked man dies, his expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perishes.
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked comes in his stead.
An hypocrite with his mouth destroys his neighbor: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered.
When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He that is void of wisdom despises his neighbor: but a man of understanding holds his peace.
A talebearer reveals secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit conceals the matter.
Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that hates indebtedness is sure.
A gracious woman retains honor: and strong men retain riches.
The merciful man does good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubles his own flesh.
The wicked works a deceitful work: but to him that sows righteousness shall be a sure reward.
As righteousness tends to life: so he that pursues evil pursues it to his own death.
They that are of a fraudulent heart are abomination to the LORD: but such as are upright in their way are his delight.
Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.
The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
There is that scatters, and yet increases; and there is that withholds more than is meet, but it tends to poverty.
The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that waters shall be watered also himself.
He that withholds corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be on the head of him that sells it.
He that diligently seeks good procures favor: but he that seeks mischief, it shall come to him.
He that trusts in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as a branch.
He that troubles his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that wins souls is wise.
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.