VERILY, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheep-fold, but getteth in some other way, that person is a thief and a robber.
He that entereth by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own peculiar sheep by name, and leadeth them forth.
And when he bringeth out his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: because they know his voice.
And a stranger will they not follow, but will fly from him: for they know not the voice of strangers.
This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they knew nothing of the things which he spake to them.
Therefore Jesus said unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that I am the door of the sheep.
All, as many as have gone before me, are thieves and robbers: but the sheep hearkened not to them.
I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved; and shall go in and out, and find pasture.
The thief cometh not but to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.
I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd layeth down his life for the sheep.
But the hireling, and he that is not the shepherd, whose own property the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth; and the wolf seizes upon them, and disperseth the sheep.
Now the hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep.
I am the good shepherd, and know my own sheep, and am known of my own.
As the Father knoweth me, so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.
And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: these also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, one shepherd.
Therefore doth the Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again.
No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment I have received from my Father.
There was therefore a division again among the Jews, on account of these sayings.
Then many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad; why hearken to him?
Others said, These are not the discourses of a demoniac. Can a devil open the eyes of the blind?
Then was the feast of dedication at Jerusalem, and it was winter.
And Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon’s portico.
Then the Jews came about him, and said to him, How long dost thou keep our soul in suspense? If thou art the Messiah, tell us plainly.
Jesus answered them; I told you, and ye believed not: the works which I do in the name of my Father, they bear witness of me.
But ye believe not, for ye are not of my sheep, as I told you.
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me:
and I give unto them everlasting life and they shall never perish to eternity, and no person shall pluck them out of my hand.
My Father, who gave them to me, is greater than all and no one shall pluck them out of my Father’s hand.
I and my Father are one.
Then the Jews again brought stones, in order to stone him.
Jesus said unto them, Many good works have I shewed you from my Father; for which work of these are ye going to stone me?
The Jews answered him, For a good work we do not stone thee; but for blasphemy; and that thou, being merely a man, makest thyself God.
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, “I said ye are gods?”
If he called those gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken;
do ye say of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest because I said, I am the Son of God?
If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him.
Then sought they again to apprehend him and he departed out of their reach,
and went again beyond Jordan, unto the place where John at first baptised; and there he abode.
And many came to him, and said, That John indeed performed no miracle: but all things whatsoever John spake of this man were true.
And many believed on him there.