But I make known to you, brethren, the gospel that I preached to you, which also you received, in which also you stand,
by which also you are saved, if you hold fast the word which I preached to you, unless you believed in vain.
For I delivered to you among the first things, that which I also received: That Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures;
and that he was buried; and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures;
and that he was seen by Cephas, then by the twelve;
after that, he was seen by more than five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain till this day; but some have fallen asleep.
After that, he was seen by James, then by all the apostles.
Last of all, he was seen by me also, as one untimely born.
For I am the least of the apostles, and I am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
But, by the grace of God, I am what I am; and his grace, which was bestowed on me, has not been bestowed in vain: but I have labored more abundantly than they all; not I, however, but the grace of God which was with me.
Whether, therefore, I or they, so we preached, and so you believed.
But if Christ is preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you, that a resurrection of the dead is impossible?
But if a resurrection of the dead is impossible, Christ has not been raised.
And if Christ has not been raised, then vain is our preaching, and vain also your faith.
We are, indeed, also found false witnesses of God; for we have testified against God, that he raised the Christ, whom he did not raise, if, indeed, the dead are not raised.
For if the dead are not raised, Christ has not been raised;
and if Christ has not been raised, your faith is vain; you are yet in your sins.
Then, also, those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most miserable.
But now, Christ has risen from the dead, the first-fruits of those who slept.
For, since through man came death, through man comes also the resurrection of the dead.
For, as in Adam all die, so, also, in Christ shall all be made alive:
but each in his own order; Christ the first-fruit, afterward, those who are Christ’s at his coming.
Then comes the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down every principality and authority and power:
for he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet.
The last enemy, Death, shall be destroyed.
For he has put all things under his feet. But when the scripture says, that all things are put under him, it is evident that he is excepted, who did put all things under him.
And when all things shall have been put under him, then, also, shall the Son himself be subjected to him that did put all things under him, that God may be the all in all.
For else, what shall those do, who are immersed for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why, then, are they immersed for the dead?
And why are we in danger every hour?
I protest, by the joy which I have over you in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.
If, to speak as a man, I have fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what advantage is it to me, if the dead rise not? Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die.
Be not deceived: Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Awake, as you should, to soberness, and sin not; for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame.
But some one will say: How are the dead raised up? and with what body do they come?
Thoughtless man! That which you sow is not made alive, unless it die;
and as to that which you sow, you sow not the body that shall be produced, but the naked grain, it may be of wheat, or of some other grain:
but God gives it a body, as it pleases him; and to every seed, its proper body.
All flesh is not the same flesh; but there is one flesh of men, another of beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds.
There are also bodies celestial, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and that of the terrestrial is another.
There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
So, also, is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption:
it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power:
it is sown an animal body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is an animal body, and there is a spiritual body.
So, also, it is written: The first man Adam became a living soul, the last Adam a life-giving spirit.
But that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is animal; and afterward that which is spiritual.
The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man, the Lord from heaven.
As the earthy man was, such also are the earthy; and as the heavenly man is, such also shall the heavenly be.
And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.
But this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood can not inherit the kingdom of God, nor does corruption inherit incorruption.
Behold, I declare to you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed
in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet: For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.
For this corruptible body must put on incorruptibility; and this mortal body must put on immortality.
And when this corruptible body shall have put on incorruptibility, and this mortal body shall have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the word that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory.
O Death, where is thy sting? O Hades, where is thy victory?
The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law.
But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore, my beloved brethren, be firm, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord; for you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.