I, therefore, brethren, have not been able to speak unto you, as unto men of the Spirit, but as unto men of the flesh—as unto babes in Christ:—
With milk, have I fed you, not, with meat; for, not yet, have ye been able;—nay! not [yet] even now, are ye able,
For ye are yet fleshly. For, whereas there are, among you, jealousy and strife, are ye not, fleshly, and, after the manner of men, walking?
For, as soon as one beginneth to say—I, indeed, am of Paul! and another—I, of Apollos! are ye not, men?
What then is Apollos? and, what is Paul? ministers through whom ye believed, and, each, as the Lord, gave to him.
I, planted, Apollos, watered,—but, God, caused to, grow.
So that, [neither] is he that planteth anything, nor, he that watereth,—but, God, who causeth to, grow.
Moreover, he that planteth and he that watereth, are one:—howbeit, each one, his own reward, shall receive,—according to his own labour.
For we are, God’s, fellow-workmen: ye are, God’s, farm, God’s building.
According to the favour of God which hath been given unto me, as a wise master-builder, I laid a foundation, whereas, another, is building thereon; but, let each one, see, how he buildeth thereon;
For, other foundation, can, no one, lay, than that which is lying, which is, Jesus Christ.
But, if anyone is building, upon the foundation—gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw,
Each one’s work, shall be made, manifest; for, the day, will make it plain, because, by fire, is it to be revealed,—and, each one’s work, of what sort it is, the fire itself will prove:—
If, anyone’s work, shall abide, which he built, a reward, shall he receive,—
If, anyone’s work, shall be burnt up, he shall suffer loss, but shall, himself, be saved—though, thus, as through fire.
Know ye not that ye are a shrine of God, and that the Spirit of God within you doth dwell?
If anyone doth mar the shrine of God, God, will mar him; for the shrine of God is holy,—and such are ye.
Let no one be deceiving himself:—if anyone imagineth himself to be wise among you, in this age, let him become foolish, that he may become wise;
For, the wisdom of this world, is, foolishness with God; for it is written—He that taketh the wise in their knavery,—
And again—The Lord taketh note of the speculations of the wise, that they are vain.
So then, let, no one, be boasting in men; for, all things, are yours—
Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come, all, are, yours,
And, ye, are Christ’s,—and, Christ, is, God’s.