The sons of Judah were Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
And Reaiah the son of Shobal fathered Jahath. And Jahath fathered Ahumai, and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.
And these were of the father of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash, and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi
and Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the first-born of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.
And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
And Naarah bore him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
And the sons of Helah: Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.
And Coz fathered Anub, and Zobebah, and the families Aharhel, the son of Harum.
And Jabez was more honorable than his brothers. And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bore him with sorrow.
And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that You would bless me indeed, and make my border larger, and that Your hand might be with me, and that You would keep me from evil, so that it may not grieve me! And God granted him that which he asked.
And Chelub the brother of Shuah fathered Mehir; he was the father of Eshton.
And Eshton fathered Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Rechah.
And the sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. And the son of Othniel was Hathath.
And Meonothai fathered Ophrah. And Seraiah fathered Joab, the father of the Valley of the Craftsmen. For they were craftsmen.
And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam. And the son of Elah was Kenaz.
And the sons of Jehaleleel: Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.
And the sons of Ezra: Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon. And she bore Miriam and Shammai, and Ishbah, Eshtemoa's father.
And his wife Jehudijah bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took.
And the sons of his wife were Hodiah the sister of Naham, the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.
And the sons of Shimon: Amnon, and Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-zoheth.
The sons of Shelah the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of those who worked fine linen, from the house of Ashbea,
and Jokim, and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the rule over Moab, and Jashubi-lehem. And these are ancient things.
These were the potters and those who lived among plants and hedges. They lived there with the king for his work.
The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul,
Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
And the sons of Mishma: Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimei his son.
And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters. But his brothers did not have many sons, and all their family did not multiply like the sons of Judah.
And they lived at Beer-sheba, and Moladah, and Hazar-shual,
and at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
and at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
and at Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susim, and at Beth-birei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of David.
And their villages were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities,
and all their villages were around these cities, to Baal. These were their homes and their family line.
And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah,
and Joel, and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,
and Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah.
These going by name were rulers in their families. And the house of their fathers increased greatly.
And they went to the entrance of Gedor, to the east side of the valley, to look for pasture for their flocks.
And they found fertile and good pasture, for the land was wide and quiet and peaceable. For some of the sons of Ham had lived there of old.
And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and struck their tents, and the homes that were found there, and completely destroyed them until this day, and lived in their places, because there was pasture there for their flocks.
And some of them, of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men went to Mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
And they struck the rest which escaped to Amalek, and lived there until this day.