In the twenty seventh year of Jeroboam the king of Israel Azariah the son of Amaziah the king of Judah began to reign.
He was a son of sixteen years when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty two years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Jecholiah of Jerusalem.
And he did the right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his father Amaziah did;
however, the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places.
And Jehovah touched the king, and he was a leper to the day of his death; and he lived in a separate house, and Jotham the son of the king was over the house, judging the people of the land.
And the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And Azariah lay with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And his son Jotham reigned in his place.
In the thirty eighth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel, in Samaria, six months.
And he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah, as his fathers did; he did not turn aside from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him and struck him before the people, and killed him, and reigned in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel.
This was the word of Jehovah that He spoke to Jehu, saying, Your son of the fourth generation shall sit to you on the throne of Israel; and it was so.
Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty ninth year of Uzziah the king of Judah, and he reigned a full month in Samaria.
And Menahem the son of Gadi from Tirzah went up and came into Samaria and struck Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and killed him, and reigned in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy that he conspired, behold, they are written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel.
Then Menahem struck Tiphsah, and all who were in it, and its borders from Tirzah, for it did not open, and he struck it; he ripped up all its pregnant women.
In the thirty ninth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel, ten years in Samaria.
And he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah; he did not turn aside from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin, all his days.
Pul the king of Assyria came against the land, and Menahem gave a thousand talents of silver to Pul, that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand.
And Menahem brought out the silver from Israel, on all the mighty men of wealth, to give to the king of Assyria, fifty shekels of silver for each one; and the king of Assyria turned back and did not stay there in the land.
And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And Menahem lay with his fathers. And his son Pekahiah reigned in his place.
In the fiftieth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem reigned over Israel two years in Samaria.
And he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah; he did not turn aside from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
And Pekah the son of Remaliah, his general, conspired against him and struck him in Samaria, in the high place of the house of the king, with Argob and Arieh, and fifty men of the sons of the Gileadites with him; and he killed him and reigned in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel.
In the fifty second year of Azariah the king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel, twenty years in Samaria.
And he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah; he did not turn aside from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
In the days of Pekah the king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser the king of Assyria came and took Ijon, and Abel-beth-maachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and removed them to Assyria.
And Hoshea the son of Elah conspired a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and struck him, and killed him, and reigned in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
And the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel.
In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah the king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah, the king of Judah, began to reign.
He was a son of twenty five years when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok.
And he did the right in the eyes of Jehovah; he did according to all that his father Uzziah did.
Only, the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in high places; he built the Upper Gate of the house of Jehovah.
And the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
In those days Jehovah began to send against Judah Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah.
And Jotham lay with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of his father David. And his son Ahaz reigned in his place.