And Jehovah said to Moses, See, I have made thee as God to Pharaoh, and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet.
Thou shall speak all that I command thee, and Aaron thy brother shall speak to Pharaoh, that he let the sons of Israel go out of his land.
And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt.
But Pharaoh will not hearken to you. And I will lay my hand upon Egypt, and bring forth my armies, my people the sons of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.
And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah, when I stretch forth my hand upon Egypt, and bring out the sons of Israel from among them.
And Moses and Aaron did so, as Jehovah commanded them, so they did.
And Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
When Pharaoh shall speak to you, saying, Show a wonder for you, then thou shall say to Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it become a serpent.
And Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh. And they did so, as Jehovah had commanded, and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent.
Then Pharaoh also called for the wise men and the sorcerers. And they also, the magicians of Egypt, did in like manner with their enchantments.
For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents, but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods.
And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he did not hearken to them, as Jehovah had spoken.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is stubborn; he refuses to let the people go.
Get thee to Pharaoh in the morning, lo, he goes out to the water, and thou shall stand by the river's edge to meet him, and the rod which was turned to a serpent thou shall take in thy hand.
And thou shall say to him, Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to thee, saying, Let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness. And, behold, until now thou have not hearkened.
Thus says Jehovah, In this thou shall know that I am Jehovah. Behold, I will smite with the rod that is in my hand upon the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.
And the fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall become foul, and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink water from the river.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Take thy rod, and stretch out thy hand over the waters of Egypt, over their rivers, over their streams, and over their pools, and over all their ponds of water, that they may become blood, and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.
And Moses and Aaron did so, as Jehovah commanded. And he lifted up the rod, and smote the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants, and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood.
And the fish that were in the river died, and the river became foul, and the Egyptians could not drink water from the river. And the blood was throughout all the land of Egypt.
And the magicians of Egypt did in like manner with their enchantments. And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he did not hearken to them, as Jehovah had spoken.
And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he lay even this to heart.
And all the Egyptians dug round about the river for water to drink, for they could not drink of the water of the river.
And seven days were fulfilled, after Jehovah had smitten the river.