And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying
Son of man Say to the Prince of Tyre. Thus, saith My Lord. Yahweh— Because lofty, is thy heart and thou hast said A GOD, am I, In the seat of God, have I taken my seat In the heart of the seas; Whereas thou art a man, and not a GOD, But hast set thy heart as the heart of God:
Lo! wiser, thou than Daniel,— No secret, have they hidden from thee:
In thy wisdom and in thine understanding, hast thou gotten thee wealth,— And hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasuries:
By the greatness of thy wisdom and by thy traffic, hast thou multiplied thy riches, -And thy heart hath become lofty in thy riches:
Therefore, Thus saith My Lord Yahweh,— Because thou hast set thy heart as the heart of God,
Therefore behold me! bringing upon thee aliens, The terrible ones of the nations,- And they shall unsheathe their swords over the beauty of thy wisdom, And profane thy splendour:
To the pit, shall they take thee down,- And thou shalt die the deaths of one thrust through, In the heart of the seas.
Wilt thou really say, God, am I, before him who is slaying thee; When, thou, art a man and not a God, in the hand of them who are piercing thee?
The deaths of the uncircumcised, shalt thou die by the hand of aliens,— For I have spoken, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man Take thou up a dirge over the king of Tyre,— And thou shalt say to him Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, Thou wast of finished proportions, Full of wisdom and Perfect in beauty:
In Eden the garden of God, thou wast. Of every precious stone, was thy covering-Sardius. topaz, and diamond, Chrysolite beryl, and jasper, Sapphire carbuncle and emerald,- And of gold, was the work of thy timbrels and thy flutes within thee, In the day thou wast created, were they prepared:
Thou, wast the anointed cherub that covered,— When I appointed thee, in the holy mount of God, thou wast, Amid stones of fire, thou didst walk to and fro:
Complete, wast thou in thy ways, from the day thou wast created,- Until perversity was found in thee.
By the abundance of thy traffic, they filled thy midst with violence And thou didst sin,- So I cast thee as profane out of the mountain of God. And destroyed thee O covering cherub, from amid the stones of fire:
Lofty, was thy heart in thy beauty, Thou didst corrupt thy wisdom, because of thy splendour,— Upon the earth, did I cast thee. Before kings, did I set thee That they might look at thee:
Owing to the abounding of thine iniquities. In the perversity of thy traffic, Thou didst profane thy sanctuaries, Therefore brought I forth fire out of thy midst. the same devoured thee, And I turned thee to ashes on the ground, Before the eyes of all beholding thee:
All that had known thee among the peoples were astounded over thee,— A terror, hast thou become, And, art not, Unto times age-abiding.
And the word of Yahweh came unto me saying:
Son of man, Set thy face towards Zidon,— And prophesy over it;
and thou shalt say— Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, Behold me! against thee, O Zidon, Therefore will I get myself glory in thy midst,— [And they shall know that, I, am Yahweh,] When I have executed against her judgments And hallowed myself in her.
So then I will send against her, pestilence and blood in her streets, And the wounded shall fall in her midst by the sword upon her from every side,— And they shall know that, I, am Yahweh.
And the house of Israel shall no more have a stinging prickle or a wounding thorn, of any round about them who used to despise them,- So shall they know that, I, am The Lord Yahweh.
Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh, When I gather together the house of Israel, from the midst of the peoples among whom they have been scattered, and shall hallow myself in them before the eyes of the nations Then shall they dwell upon their own soil, which I gave to my servant—to Jacob:
Yea they shall dwell thereupon securely, Yea shall build houses, and plant vineyards, and dwell securely,— When I have executed judgments on all that despised them on every side of them, So shall they know that, I, Yahweh am their God