Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God, our Saviour and the Lord Jesus Christ, our hope,
unto Timothy, true son in the faith, Grace, mercy, [and] peace, from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.
Even as I besought thee to remain at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, that thou might charge some that they not teach diverse doctrine,
nor give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which generate questions [other than] that the edification of God is by faith.
Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and [of] a good conscience and [of] faith unfeigned:
from which some, having swerved, have turned aside unto vanity of words,
desiring to be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor from where they affirm.
But we know that the law [is] good, if a man uses it legitimately,
knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly sinners, for the evil and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
for fornicators, for homosexuals, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if there is any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine,
according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust.
And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has enabled me, for he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry,
who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious, but I was received unto mercy because I did [it] ignorantly in unbelief.
And the grace of our Lord was exceedingly abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
This [is] a faithful saying and worthy of acceptation by all that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am first.
But for this cause I was received unto mercy that in me first, Jesus Christ might show forth all clemency, for an example to those who should hereafter believe in him for eternal life.
Therefore unto the King forever, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, [be] honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, so that according to past prophecies regarding thee, that thou by them might war a good warfare;
holding fast faith and a good conscience, which some, having cast away, have shipwrecked in [their] faith,
Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered unto Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme.: