And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and say to them, This is the thing which Jehovah has commanded, saying,
Whatever man there is of the house of Israel, who kills an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or who kills it outside the camp,
and has not brought it to the door of the tent of meeting, to offer it as an oblation to Jehovah before the tabernacle of Jehovah, blood shall be imputed to that man. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people,
to the end that the sons of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they sacrifice in the open field, even that they may bring them to Jehovah, to the door of the tent of meeting, to the priest, and sacrifice them for sacrifices of peace offerings to Jehovah.
And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of Jehovah at the door of the tent of meeting, and burn the fat for a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And they shall no more sacrifice their sacrifices to the he-goats, after which they play the harlot. This shall be a statute forever to them throughout their generations.
And thou shall say to them, Whatever man there is of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice,
and does not bring it to the door of the tent of meeting, to sacrifice it to Jehovah, that man shall be cut off from his people.
And whatever man there is of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, who eats any manner of blood, I will set my face against that soul who eats blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement by reason of the life.
Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, nor shall any stranger that sojourns among you eat blood.
And whatever man there is of the sons of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, who takes any beast or bird in hunting that may be eaten, he shall pour out the blood of it, and cover it with dust.
For as to the life of all flesh, the blood of it is with the life of it. Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, Ye shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh, for the life of all flesh is the blood of it. Whoever eats it shall be cut off.
And every soul who eats that which dies of itself, or that which is torn of beasts, whether he be home-born or a sojourner, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening, then he shall be clean.
But if he does not wash them, nor bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.