And after five days, Ananias the chief priest came down with the elders and a certain orator, Tertullus; and they informed the governor against Paul.
And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying:
Since through you we enjoy great quietness, and since whatever has been undertaken for this nation has been conducted to a successful issue by your foresight at all times and in all places, we accept it, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
But that I may not detain you longer, I beseech you to hear us, in your clemency, a few words.
For we have found this man a pest and a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
He also attempted to profane the temple; and we took him, and wished to judge him according to our law.
But Lysias the officer came, and, with much violence, took him out of our hands,
and commanded his accusers to come before you. From him you may be able yourself, by examination, to gain a knowledge of all these tilings of which we accuse him.
And the Jews united in accusing him, saying that these things were so.
Then Paul, after the governor had nodded to him to speak, answered: Knowing that you have been for many years a judge of this nation, I do the more cheerfully offer a defense for myself:
for you can understand that there are not more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
And they found me neither disputing with any one in the temple, nor exciting the multitude in the synagogue, or in the city:
nor are they able to prove the things of which they now accuse me.
But this I confess to you, that after the way which they call sect, so do I worship the God of my fathers; believing all things that are written in the law and in the prophets;
having hope in God, which they themselves also admit, that I there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and of the unjust.
And I do exercise myself in this, always to have a conscience void of offense toward God and man.
But, after many years, I came to bring charitable gifts to my nation, and offerings.
While engaged in these things, certain Jews from Asia found me fulfilling my vow of abstinence in the temple, not with a multitude, nor with tumult.
These ought to be here before you, and bring their charge, if they have any, against me.
Or let these persons here say, what offensive conduct they found in me when I stood before the Sanhedrim,
except in this one expression, which I uttered while standing among them: With respect to the resurrection I of the dead, I am judged by you this day.
But Felix, having a more accurate knowledge of this way, put them off, and said: When Lysias the officer comes down, I will inquire fully into your matters.
And he commanded the centurion to keep him under guard, and to relax the rigor of his confinement, and to forbid no one of his friends to minister or to come to him.
And, after some days, Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was a Jewess; and he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ.
And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and the judgment to come, Felix trembled, and answered: For the present withdraw; when I have a convenient season, I will call for you.
He hoped, at the same time, that money would have been given him by Paul, to release him. For this reason, he sent for him very frequently, and conversed with him.
But, after two years, Felix received Portius Festus as his successor; and Felix, wishing to confer a favor on the Jews, left Paul bound.