AND I saw an angel descending from heaven, having the key of the abyss of hell, and a great chain in his hand:
and he seized on the dragon, the old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years,
and cast him into the abyss, and shut him up, and put a seal upon it, that he might deceive the nations no more until the thousand years are completed: and after that he must be loosed a short time.
And I saw thrones, and persons were seated upon them, and authority to judge was given to them: and I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus, and for the word of God, and who had not worshipped the beast, nor his image, and had not received the brand in their foreheads, and upon their right hand; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years are completed. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection; over these the second death hath no dominion: but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and they shall reign with him a thousand years.
And when the thousand years shall be completed, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison;
and he shall go forth to deceive the nations that are in the four corners of the earth, Gog, and Magog, to gather them together to battle, whose number is as the sand of the sea.
And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and encircled the camp of the saints, and the beloved city: and there came down fire from God out of heaven, and devoured them up.
And the devil who deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and they shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
And I saw a great white throne, and one sat upon it, from whose presence fled the earth and the heaven, and no place was found for them.
And I saw the dead, small and great, standing before God, and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of the things written in the books according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead that were in it, and death and the grave gave up the dead that were in them; and every one was judged according to his works.
And death and the grave were cast into the lake of fire: this is the second death.
And if any one was not found inscribed on the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire.