And Samuel said unto all Israel, Lo! I have hearkened unto your voice, in all that ye said to me,—and have set over you a king.
Now, therefore, lo! the king going to and fro before you, But, I, am old and grey-headed, and, my sons, lo! they are with you,—But, I, have gone to and fro before you from my youth until this day.
Behold me! testify against me, before Yahweh, and before his Anointed—Whose, ox, have I taken? or whose, ass, have I taken? or whom have I oppressed? Whom have I crushed? or at whose, hands, have I taken a bribe, to cover up mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it unto you.
And they said, Thou hast not oppressed us, neither hast thou crushed us,—neither hast thou taken, at the hand of any man, any thing.
And he said unto them—Witness, is Yahweh against you, and, witness, is his Anointed, this day, that ye have not found in my hand, any thing! And they said: Witness!
And Samuel said unto the people: Witness, is Yahweh, who wrought with Moses and with Aaron, and who brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Now, therefore, take your stand and let me plead with you, before Yahweh,—and tell you all the righteous acts of Yahweh, which he wrought with you, and with your fathers:
How that, when Jacob had come into Egypt,—and your fathers had made outcry unto Yahweh, then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and he caused them to dwell in this place;
And, when they forgat Yahweh their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, prince of the host of Jabin, king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them;
But, when they made outcry unto Yahweh and said—We have sinned, in that we have forsaken Yahweh, and have served the Baals and the Ashtoreths,—now, therefore, deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, that we may serve thee,
then Yahweh sent Jerubbaal and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel,—and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies, on every side, and ye dwelt in safety.
But, when ye saw that, Nahash king of the sons of Ammon, came upon you, then said ye unto me, Nay! but, a king, shall reign over us, when, Yahweh your God, was your king!
Now, therefore, lo! the king whom ye have chosen, for whom ye have asked,—lo! therefore, Yahweh hath set over you a king.
If ye will revere Yahweh, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebel against the bidding of Yahweh, then shall, both ye and your king that reigneth over you, continue to follow after Yahweh your God.
But, if ye hearken not unto the voice of Yahweh, but rebel against the bidding of Yahweh, then will the hand of Yahweh continue to be against you, and against your fathers.
Even now, stand still and see this great thing,—which Yahweh is about to do before your eyes:
Is it not wheat harvest, to-day? I will cry unto Yahweh, that he may give forth thunderings and rain,—know ye then and see, that, your wrong, is great which ye have done in the sight of Yahweh, in asking for yourselves, a king.
So Samuel cried unto Yahweh, and Yahweh gave forth thunderings and rain, on that day,—and all the people greatly feared Yahweh, and Samuel.
And all the people said unto Samuel—Pray for thy servants, unto Yahweh thy God, and let it not be that we die,—For we have added, to all our sins, a wrong, in asking for ourselves a king.
Then said Samuel unto the people—Do not fear, ye, have done all this wrong,—nevertheless, do not turn aside from following Yahweh, but serve Yahweh, with all your heart;
and turn not aside after vanities, that can neither profit nor deliver, because, vanities, they are.
For Yahweh will not give up his people, because of his great name, for Yahweh was minded to make you his people.
As for me also, far be it from me, that I should sin against Yahweh, by ceasing to pray for you,—but I will direct you, in the good and right way.
Only, revere Yahweh, and serve him in truth, with all your heart,—for see, what great things he hath done with you.
But, if ye, will do wrong, both ye and your king shall be swept away.