What then is the superiority of the Jew? Or what the profit of circumcision?
Much every way. For first, indeed, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
For what if some did not believe? Will their unbelief destroy the faith of God?
Let it not be! But let God be true, and every man a liar; even as it has been written, "That You should be justified in Your words, and will overcome in Your being judged." LXX-Psa. 50:6; MT-Psa. 51:4
But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who lays on wrath? I speak according to man.
Let it not be! Otherwise, how will God judge the world?
For if in my lie the truth of God abounded to His glory, why am I yet judged as a sinner?
And not (as we are wrongly accused, and as some report us to say), Let us do bad things so that good things may come, the judgment of whom is just.
What then? Do we excel? Not at all! For we have charged both Jews and Greeks before, all with being under sin;
according as it has been written, "There is none righteous, not one!"
There is none that understands, there is "not one that seeks after God.
All turned away, they became worthless together, not one is doing goodness, not so much as one!" LXX-Psa. 13:1 -3
"Their throat is an opened grave;" "they used deceit with their tongues; the poison of asps is under their lips;
whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.
Their feet are swift to shed blood;
ruin and misery are in their way;
and they did not know a way of peace;
there is no fear of God before their eyes." LXX-Psa. 5:10; 139:4; 9:28; Isa. 59:7, 8; Psa. 35:2; MT-Psa. 14:1 -3; 5:9; 140:3; 10:7; Isa. 59:7, 8; Psa. 36:1
But we know that whatever the Law says, it speaks to those within the Law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world be under judgment to God.
Because by works of law not one of all flesh will be justified before Him, for through law is full knowledge of sin. Psa. 143:2
But now a righteousness of God has been revealed apart from Law, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets,
even the righteousness of God through faith of Jesus Christ toward all and upon all those believing; for there is no difference,
for all sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
being justified freely by His grace through the redemption in Christ Jesus,
whom God set forth as a propitiation through faith in His blood, for a showing forth of His righteousness through the passing by of the sins that had taken place before, in the forbearance of God,
for the showing forth of His righteousness in the present time, for His being just and justifying the one that is of the faith of Jesus.
Then where is the boasting? It was excluded. Through what law? Of works? No, but through a law of faith.
Then we conclude a man to be justified by faith without works of law.
Or is He the God of Jews only, and not also of the nations? Yes, of the nations also,
since it is one God who will justify circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith.
Then do we make law of no effect through faith? Let it not be! But we establish law.