And it came to pass, when we set sail, having torn ourselves from them, running a straight course, we came unto Cos, and, on the next day, unto Rhodes,—and from thence unto Patara;
and, finding a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, going on board, we set sail.
And, sighting Cyprus, and leaving it behind to the left, we held on our voyage to Syria, and landed at Tyre; for, there, the ship was to discharge her cargo.
And, finding up the disciples, we remained there seven days, and they, unto Paul, began to say, through the Spirit, that he would gain no footing in Jerusalem.
And, when it came to pass that we had completed the days, we went forth, and continued our journey, all of them accompanying us, with wives and children, as far as outside the city; and, kneeling down on the beach in prayer,
we tare ourselves from each other, and we went on board the ship, while, they, returned unto their homes.
And, we, finishing the voyage from Tyre, reached Ptolemais, and, saluting the brethren, abode one day with them;
and, on the morrow departing, we came to Caesarea, and, entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was of the seven, we abode with him.
Now—this man, had four virgin daughters, who used to prophesy.
And, as we stayed on many days, there came down a certain man from Judaea, a prophet, by name Agabus;
and, coming unto us, and taking Paul’s girdle, he bound his own feet and hands, and said—Thus, saith the Holy Spirit, the man whose this girdle is, shall the Jews thus bind in Jerusalem, and deliver up into the hands of Gentiles.
And, when we heard these things, both, we, and they of the place began beseeching him, not to go up unto Jerusalem.
Then, answered Paul—What are ye doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For, I, not only to be bound, but to die in Jerusalem, am ready, in behalf of the name of the Lord Jesus.
And, as he was not to be persuaded, we ceased, saying—the Lord’s, will be done!
And, after these days, making ready what we had, we started to go up unto Jerusalem;
and there went certain also of the disciples from Caesarea, along with us, who were to introduce us unto one with whom we might be entertained, one Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple.
Now, when we came to Jerusalem, the brethren, gladly welcomed us.
And, on the next day, Paul went in with us unto James, and, all the elders, were present.
And, saluting them, he went on to narrate, one by one, each of the things which God had wrought among the nations through his ministry.
And, they, having heard, began glorifying God; and they said to him—Thou observest, brother, how many myriads there are among the Jews who have believed, and, all, are zealous for the law.
Now they have heard it rumoured concerning thee, that, an apostacy, art thou teaching, from Moses, unto all the Jews, who are among the nations, telling them not to be circumcising their children, nor, by the customs, to be walking.
What, then, is it? at all events, they will hear that thou hast come.
This, then, do, which unto thee, we say:—We have four men who have a vow upon themselves.
Taking these unto thee, be purified with them, and spend something upon them, that they may shave their head; and all will get to know, that the things which they have heard rumoured concerning thee, are, nothing,—on the contrary, thou thyself, dost keep the ranks, guarding the law.
But, concerning them of the nations who have believed, we ourselves, sent, deciding that they should be guarding themselves, both as to idol sacrifice, and blood, and what is strangled, and fornication.
Then Paul, taking unto him the men, on the next day, with them, being purified, began entering into the temple to declare the filling up of the days of the purification—until, the offering, had been presented for each one of them.
When, however, the seven days were on the point of being concluded, the Jews from Asia, observing him in the temple, began to urge-on all the multitude, and thrust upon them their hands,
crying out—Israelites! be giving help! This, is the man who, against the people, and the law, and this place, is teaching, all men everywhere; furthermore, even Greeks, hath he brought into the temple, and hath profaned this holy place.
For they had before seen Trophimus, the Ephesian, in the city along with him, whom they were supposing, Paul, had brought, into the temple.
And the whole city was set in motion, and there took place a running together of the people, and, laying hold of Paul, they proceeded to drag him outside the temple, and, straightway, the doors were made fast.
When, also, they were seeking to slay him, there was carried up information, unto the captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in confusion:—
who, instantly taking unto him soldiers and centurions, ran down upon them; and, they, seeing the captain and the soldiers, left off striking Paul.
Then, the captain, drawing near, laid hold of him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains,—and began to enquire, who he might be, and what he had done;
but, others, were calling out, something else, in the multitude; and so, as he could not get to know the certainty, because of the tumult, he ordered him to be brought into the castle.
And, when he came unto the stairs, so it was that he was borne along by the soldiers, because of the force of the multitude;
for the throng of the people was following, crying out—Away with him!
But, when he was on the point of being taken into the castle, Paul saith unto the captain—Is it allowed me, to say somewhat unto thee? And he said—With Greek, art thou acquainted?
Not, then, art, thou, the Egyptian, who, before these days, stirred up to sedition and led out into the wilderness the four-thousand men of the Assassins?
And Paul said—I, indeed, am a Jew, of Tarsus in Cilicia,—a citizen, of no obscure city; but I beseech thee, give me leave to speak unto the people!
And, when he had given leave, Paul, standing upon the stairs, waved with his hand unto the people; and, when great silence was secured, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying—