And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the abyss, and a great chain in his hand.
And he laid hold of the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years,
and threw him into the abyss, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be completed: and after this he must be loosed for a little while.
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and the power of judging was given to them; and I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus, and for the word of God; and of those who had not worshiped the beast, nor his image, and had not received his mark on their forehead, nor on their hand: and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
But the rest of the dead lived not till the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he that has part in the first resurrection; over such the second death has no power: but they shall be priests of God and of the Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.
And when the thousand years shall have been completed, Satan shall be loosed from his prison,
and shall go out to deceive the nations that are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to bring them together to battle: the number of these is as the sand of the sea.
And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and encompassed the camp of the saints, and the beloved city: and fire came down out of heaven from God, and devoured them.
And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are: and they shall be tormented day and night from age to age.
And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat upon it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and no place was found for them.
And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before the throne; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of the things that were written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead that were in it; and death and hades gave up the dead that were in them; and they were judged, every one according to his works.
And death and hades were cast into the lake of fire: this is the second death.
And if any one was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.