Then all the sons of Israel went out, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beersheba and the land of Gilead, unto the LORD in Mizpeh.
And the chief of all the people, [even] of all the tribes of Israel, were present in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
(Now the sons of Benjamin heard that the sons of Israel were gone up to Mizpeh.) Then the sons of Israel said, Tell [us], how was this wickedness?
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was murdered, answered and said, I came into Gibeah of Benjamin with my concubine to pass the night there.
And the men of Gibeah rose up against me and beset the house round about upon me by night [and] thought to have slain me, and they have forced my concubine in such a manner that she is dead.
Then I took my concubine and cut her in pieces and sent her throughout all the country of the possession of Israel, for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
Behold, all ye sons of Israel; give here your advice and counsel.
Then all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any [of us] go to his tent, neither will we any [of us] turn into his house
until we do this upon Gibeah that we cast lots against it;
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to fetch provisions for the people that shall go against Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness [is] this that is done among you?
Now therefore deliver [us] those men, the sons of Belial, who [are] in Gibeah, that we may put them to death and put away the evil from Israel. But the sons of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of their brethren, the sons of Israel;
but the sons of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities in Gibeah to go out to battle against the sons of Israel.
And the sons of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty-six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
Among all this people [there were] seven hundred chosen men with their right hands impeded ([they were lefthanded]); each one could sling stones at a hairs [breadth], and not miss.
And the men of Israel, not counting Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword; all these [were] men of war.
Then the sons of Israel arose and went up to the house of God and asked counsel of God and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the sons of Benjamin? And the LORD said, Judah [shall go up] first.
And the sons of Israel rose up in the morning and encamped against Gibeah.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel put themselves in order to fight against them at Gibeah.
And the sons of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah and destroyed down to the ground twenty-two thousand men of the Israelites that day.
And the people encouraged themselves, and the men of Israel set their battle again in order in the place where they put themselves in order the first day.
(And the sons of Israel went up and wept before the LORD until evening and asked counsel of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the sons of Benjamin, my brother? And the LORD said, Go up against him.)
And the sons of Israel came near against the sons of Benjamin the second day.
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day and again destroyed down to the ground eighteen thousand of the sons of Israel; all these drew the sword.
Then all the sons of Israel and all the people went up and came unto the house of God and wept and sat there before the LORD and fasted that day until evening and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.
And the sons of Israel enquired of the LORD (for the ark of the covenant of God [was] there in those days,
and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days), saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the sons of Benjamin, my brother, or shall I cease? And the LORD said, Go up, for tomorrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And Israel set ambushes round about Gibeah.
And the sons of Israel went up against the sons of Benjamin on the third day and put themselves in order against Gibeah as at the other times.
And the sons of Benjamin went out against the people [and] were drawn away from the city, and they began to smite of the people [and] kill as at the other times in the highways, one of which goes up to the house of God and the other to Gibeah by the field, [and they killed] about thirty men of Israel.
And the sons of Benjamin said, They [are] smitten down before us as at the first. But the sons of Israel said, Let us flee and draw them from the city unto the highways.
Then all the men of Israel rose up out of their place and put themselves in order at Baaltamar, and also those of the ambushes of Israel came forth out of their place, out of the meadows of Gibeah.
And ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel came against Gibeah, and the battle was sore; but they did not know that evil [was] near them.
And the LORD smote Benjamin before Israel, and the sons of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty-five thousand one hundred men; all these drew the sword.
So the sons of Benjamin saw that they were smitten, for the men of Israel had given place to the Benjamites because they trusted those of the ambushes which they had set behind Gibeah.
[Then the men of] the ambushes rushed upon Gibeah and spread out and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
Now there was an appointed sign between the men of Israel and [the men of] the ambushes that they should make a great signal by causing much smoke to rise up out of the city.
Then when the men of Israel turned [their backs] in the battle and those of Benjamin began to smite [and] kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons, for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us as [in] the first battle.
But when the signal began to arise up out of the city, a pillar of smoke, those of Benjamin looked behind them, and, behold, the whole consumption of the city ascended up to heaven.
Then the men of Israel turned again, and the men of Benjamin were terrified, for they saw that evil was come upon them.
Therefore, they turned [their backs] before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness, but the battle overtook them, and those who [came] out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
[Thus] they inclosed those of Benjamin round about [and] chased them [and] trode them down with ease over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these [were] men of valour.
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon; and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.
So that all who fell that day of Benjamin were twenty-five thousand men that drew the sword; all these [were] men of valour.
But six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the sons of Benjamin and smote them with the edge of the sword, men and beasts in [every] city and all that was found; they also set on fire all the cities that they came to.: