And Ahab told Jezebel, all that Elijah had done,—and withal, how he had slain all the prophets with the sword.
Then sent Jezebel a messenger unto Elijah, saying,—So, let the gods do, and, so, let them add, if, by this time to-morrow, I make not thy life as the life of one of them.
And, when he saw [that], he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beer-sheba, which belongeth to Judah,—and left his servant there.
But, he himself, went into the wilderness a day’s journey, and came and sat down under a certain shrub,—and asked for his life, that he might die, and said—Enough, now, O Yahweh! take away my life, for, no better, am, I, than, my fathers.
And, as he lay, and slept, under a certain shrub, lo! a messenger, touching him, who said to him—Rise, eat.
So he looked about, and lo! at his head, a cake baked on hot stones, and a cruse of water,—and he did eat and drink, and then went back and lay down.
And the messenger of Yahweh came again a second time, and touched him, and said—Rise, eat,—because, too much for thee, is the journey.
So he arose, and did eat and drink,—and journeyed, in the strength of that eating, forty days and forty nights, as far as the mountain of God—Horeb.
And he entered, there, into a cave, and lodged there,—and lo! the word of Yahweh [came] unto him, and said to him, What doest thou here, Elijah?
And he said—Very jealous, have I been, for Yahweh, God of hosts, because the sons of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thine altars, have they thrown down, thy prophets, also have they slain with the sword,—and, I alone, am left, and they have sought my life, to take it.
And he said—Go forth to-morrow, and stand in the mountain, before Yahweh. And lo! Yahweh, passing by, and a great and strong wind—rending the mountains, and breaking in pieces the crags, before Yahweh, Not, in the wind, was, Yahweh,—And, after the wind, an, earthquake, Not, in the earthquake, was, Yahweh;
And, after the earthquake, a, fire, Not, in the fire, was, Yahweh,—And, after the fire, the voice of a gentle whisper.
And it came to pass, when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went forth, and stood at the entrance of the cave,—and lo! unto him, a voice; and it said—What doest thou here, Elijah?
And he said—Very jealous, have I been, for Yahweh, God of hosts, because the sons of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thine altars, have they thrown down, thy prophets also, have they slain with the sword,—and, I alone, am left, and they rove sought my life, to take it.
And Yahweh said unto him, Go, return to thy way, towards the wilderness of Damascus,—and, when thou enterest, then shalt thou anoint Hazael to be king over Syria;
And, Jehu son of Minshi, shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel,—and, Elisha son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah, shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy stead:
Then shall it come to pass, that—him that escapeth the sword of Hazael, shall, Jehu, slay,—and, him that escapeth the sword of Jehu, shall, Elisha, slay;
Yet will I leave remaining in Israel, seven thousand,—all knees which have not bowed to Baal, and all mouths which have not kissed to him.
So he departed from thence, and found Elisha son of Shaphat, as he was plowing, with twelve yoke of oxen before him, he being with the twelfth,—so Elijah crossed over unto him, and cast his mantle towards him;
and he left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said—Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, that I may follow thee. And he said unto him,—Go, turn back, for what have I done to thee?
So he turned back from following him, and took the yoke of oxen, and sacrificed them, and, with the implements of the oxen, boiled their flesh, and gave unto the people, and they did eat,—then he arose, and followed Elijah, and ministered unto him.