I ADJURE thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom;
preach the word, be urgent, in season, out of season; reprove, enjoin, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine.
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own inclinations will set up a herd of teachers for themselves, having the itch of hearing;
and will turn away their ears from the truth, and listen unto fables.
But watch thou in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fully discharge thy ministry.
For I am now ready to be sacrificed, and the time of my dissolution approaches.
I have struggled hard in the honourable contest, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith:
henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day: yet not to me only, but also to all who have loved his appearing.
Hasten to come to me shortly:
for Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is gone unto Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.
Luke alone is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee; for he is very useful to me in the ministry.
But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
The cloke which I left behind me at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest bring, and the books, especially the parchments.
Alexander the brazier did me many ill offices: the Lord repay him according to his works:
against whom be thou also on thy guard, for he hath greatly resisted our words.
At my first apology no man stood by me, but all forsook me: (may it not be imputed to them!)
but the Lord stood by me, and strengthened me, that by me the preaching might be fully discharged, and that all the Gentiles might hear; and I was snatched out of the lion’s mouth.
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and preserve me for his celestial kingdom: to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Salute Priscilla and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus.
Erastus hath abode at Corinth: but Trophimus I left behind me at Miletum sick.
Hasten to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.
The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.   The second epistle to Timothy, appointed the first bishop of the Ephesian church, was written from Rome, when the second time Paul stood before the Caesar Nero. \p