And the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, drew near.
And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill Him, for they feared the people.
And Satan entered into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the Twelve.
And going, he talked with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray Him to them.
And they were glad and they agreed to give him silver.
And he fully consented, and he sought opportunity to betray Him to them, away from the crowd.
And the day of the Unleavened Bread came, when the passover must be killed.
And He sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare the passover for us, so that we may eat.
And they said to Him. Where do You desire that we prepare?
And He said to them, Behold, when you have entered into the city, you will meet a man bearing a pitcher of water. Follow him into the house where he enters.
And you shall say to the master of the house, The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest room where I shall eat the passover with My disciples?
And he shall show you a large, furnished upper room. Prepare there.
And they went and found it as He had said to them. And they prepared the passover.
And when the hour came, He and the twelve apostles with Him reclined.
And He said to them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer.
For I say to you, I will not any more eat of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And He took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves.
For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come.
And He took bread and gave thanks, and He broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is My body which is given for you, this do in remembrance of Me.
In the same way also the cup, after having dined, saying, This cup is the new covenant in My blood, which is being poured out for you.
But, behold, the hand of My betrayer is with Me on the table.
And truly the Son of man goes, as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!
And they began to inquire among themselves which of them it was that should do this thing.
And there was also a dispute among them as to which of them seems to be greater.
And He said to them, The kings of the nations exercise lordship over them. And they who exercise authority on them are called benefactors.
But you shall not be so: but the greater among you, let him be as the lesser, and he who governs, as one who serves.
For which is the greater; he who reclines, or he who serves? Is it not he who reclines? But I am among you as He who serves.
You are those who have continued with Me in My trials.
And I appoint a kingdom to you, as My Father has appointed to Me,
that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has desired you, that he may sift you as wheat.
But I have prayed for you, that your faith fail not. And when you are converted, strengthen your brothers.
And he said to Him, Lord, I am ready to go with You, both into prison and into death.
And He said, I say to you, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day before you shall deny knowing Me three times.
And He said to them, When I sent you without purse and wallet and sandals, did you lack anything? And they said, Nothing.
And He said to them, But now, he who has a purse, let him take it, and likewise his wallet. And he who has no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one.
For I say to you that this which is written must yet be accomplished in Me, "And he was reckoned among the transgressors"; for the things concerning Me have an end.
And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And He said to them, It is enough.
And going out, according to His custom, He went to the Mount of Olives. And His disciples also followed Him.
And when He was at the place, He said to them, Pray that you do not enter into temptation.
And He was withdrawn from them about a stone's throw. And He kneeled down and prayed,
saying, Father, if You are willing, remove this cup from Me. Yet not My will, but Yours be done.
And an angel appeared to Him from Heaven, strengthening Him.
And being in an agony He prayed more earnestly. And His sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.
And when He rose up from prayer and had come to His disciples, He found them sleeping because of sorrow.
And He said to them, Why do you sleep? Rise and pray lest you enter into temptation.
And as He was yet speaking, behold a crowd! And he who was called Judas, one of the Twelve, went before them. And he drew near Jesus to kiss Him.
But Jesus said to him, Judas, do you betray the Son of man with a kiss?
And those around Him seeing what was about to occur, they said to him, Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
And Jesus answered and said, Let it go until now. And touching his ear, He healed him.
And Jesus said to the chief priests and commanders of the temple, and the elders, who had come to Him, Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and staves?
When I was with you in the temple daily, you did not stretch out your hand on Me. But this is your hour, and the authority of the darkness.
And laying hold on Him, they led Him away and brought Him into the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off.
And lighting a fire in the middle of the court, and they sitting down, Peter sat in their midst.
But a certain slave-girl saw him as he sat by the fire and earnestly looked on him and said, This man was with him also.
And he denied Him, saying, Woman, I do not know Him.
And after a little while another saw him and said, You also are of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not!
And about an hour afterward, another confidently affirmed, saying, Truly this one was also with him, for he is a Galilean.
And Peter said, Man, I do not know what you say. And immediately, while he still spoke, the cock crowed.
And the Lord turned and looked on Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had said to him, Before the cock crows, you shall deny Me three times.
And Peter went out and wept bitterly.
And the men who held Jesus mocked Him, beating Him.
And blindfolding Him, they struck Him on His face. And they asked Him, saying, Prophesy! Who is it who struck you?
And they spoke many other things blasphemously against Him.
And when day came, the body of elders of the people, and the chief priests and the scribes, came together. And they led Him to the sanhedrin, saying,
Are you the Christ? Tell us. And He said to them, If I tell you, you will not believe.
Also if I ask you, you will not answer Me nor let Me go.
From now on the Son of man shall sit at the right hand of the power of God.
And they all said, Are you then the Son of God? And He said to them, You say it, because I AM!
And they said, What need do we have for any witness? For we ourselves have heard it from his own mouth.