And it came to pass, in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month on the first of the month, that the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man Take up a dirge over Pharaoh king of Egypt, and thou shalt say unto him. The young lion of the nations, thou didst deem thyself,- Whereas thou, wast like the crocodile in the seas, And didst cause thy streams to burst forth And didst trouble the waters with thy feet, And foul their rivers.
Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh, Therefore will I spread over thee my net, With a gathered host of many peoples,-And they shall bring thee up in my net;
And I will stretch thee out on the land, Over the face of the field, will I fling thee,- And will cause to settle upon thee all the birds of the heavens, And will satiate with thee the wild beasts of all the earth;
And I will lay thy flesh on the mountains,— And fill the valleys, with thy blood;
And will soak the earth with thy blood, amongst the mountains,- And the channels shall be filled with thee.
And when I quench thee, I will cover the heavens, And obscure their stars,— The sun—with a cloud, will I cover, And the moon shall not shed her light;
As for all the light-bearers in the heavens, I will obscure them over thee— And will stretch out darkness over thy land, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
And I will aggrieve the heart of many peoples,- when I bring them who are broken off from thee among the nations, unto lands which thou hast not known.
Yea I will cause amazement over thee unto many peoples And the hair of their kings shall stand on end over thee, when I brandish my sword over their faces,- And they shall tremble every moment every man for his own life, In the day of thy fall.
For thus saith My Lord, Yahweh:-the sword of the king of Babylon shall reach thee.
With the swords of mighty men, will I cause thy multitude to fall, Terrible ones of the nations all of them!-And they shall spoil the pride of Egypt, And all her multitude shall be destroyed,
And I will cause to perish all her beasts, from beside the many waters,— And the foot of man shall not trouble them any more, Nor shall hoof of beast, trouble them.
Then, will I make their waters subside, And, their streams—like oil, will I cause to flow,— Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.
When I make the land of Egypt an astonishment A land laid bare of its fulness, When I cut off all that dwell therein, Then shall they know that, I am Yahweh.
A dirge, it is And they shall chant it, The daughters of the nations Shall chant it: Over Egypt and over all her multitude, Shall they chant it, Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.
And it came to pass in the twelfth year on the fifteenth of the month, that the word of Yahweh came unto me saying:
Son of man Wail thou over the multitude of Egypt and cause it to descend—her and the daughters of the famous nations—into the earth below with them who descend into the pit.
Than whom, art thou more precious? Descend and be laid low with the uncircumcised:
Into the midst of them who were thrust through by the sword, let them fall,-To the sword, hath she been delivered up, Lay ye hold of her and all her multitudes.
The chiefs of the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst of hades, with his helpers,- They have descended They have lain down. The uncircumcised! Thrust through by the sword.
There, is Assyria with all her gathered host, Round about him, are his graves, All of them thrust through, The fallen by the sword:
Whose graves have been set In the recesses of the pit, And so her gathered host is round about her grave, All of them thrust through. Fallen by the sword, Who caused terror in the land of the living.
There, is Persia with all her multitude, round about her grave,— All of them, thrust through The fallen by the sword Who have descended, uncircumcised into the earth below Who made themselves a terror in the land of the living, And so they have borne their confusion with them who descend into the pit:
In the midst of them who were thrust through, have they have placed a couch for her with all her multitude, Round about it, are her graves,-All of them, uncircumcised. Thrust through with the sword. For that their terror was caused in the land of the living. And so they have borne their confusion, with them who descend into the pit, In the midst of them who were thrust through, hath it been placed.
There, are Meshech-Tuba and all her multitude, Round about it, are her graves,— All of them uncircumcised, Who were thrust through with the sword, For that they made themselves a terror in the land of the living;
Therefore shall they not lie with the mighty men The fallen ones from age-past times, Who descended into hades with their weapons of war And their swords were placed under their heads. But their iniquities have come upon their bones Because of the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.
Thou, therefore in the midst of the uncircumcised, shalt be overthrown. And shalt lie low with them who were thrust through by the sword.
There, are Edom her kings and all her princes, Who have been delivered up in their might. With them who were thrust through by he sword,— They with the uncircumcised, shall lie low. Even with them who descend into the pit.
There, are the princes of the North, all of them, and all the Zidonians, Who have descended with them who were thrust through. By reason of the terror they caused, of their might, are they ashamed, So they have lain down uncircumcised. With them who were thrust through by the sword, And they have bowed their confusion with them who descend into the pit.
Them, shall Pharaoh see, and be grieved over all his multitude,— Thrust through with the sword, shall be Pharaoh and all his army! Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.
For I have suffered his terror to be in the land of the living, Therefore shall be laid low In the midst of the uncircumcised With them who were thrust through by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude! Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.