As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honor is not becoming for a fool.
As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse without cause shall not come.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool's back.
Do not answer a fool according to his foolishness, lest you also be like him.
Answer a fool according to his foolishness, so that he may not be wise in his own eyes.
He who sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off the feet and drinks down damage.
The legs of the lame are not equal; so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
As he who binds a stone in a sling, so is he who gives honor to a fool.
As a thorn goes up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
Great is the Former of all, but he who hires a fool is like one who hires one passing by.
As a dog returns to its vomit, so a fool returns to his folly.
Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
The lazy one says, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.
As the door turns upon its hinges, so does the lazy man turn upon his bed.
The lazy man hides his hand in his bosom; it grieves him to bring it again to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can give a reason.
He who passes by enraging himself over strife not his own is like one who takes a dog by the ears,
or like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death.
so is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, Am I not joking.
Where there is no wood, the fire goes out; and where there is no talebearer, the fighting ceases.
As coals to burning coals, and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man to kindle fighting.
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a broken piece of pottery with silver waste.
He who hates pretends with his lips and stores up deceit within him.
When he makes his voice gracious, do not believe him; for seven hateful things are in his heart.
He whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shown before the congregation.
Whoever digs a pit shall fall into it; and he who rolls a stone, it will return on him.
A lying tongue hates those afflicted by it, and a flattering mouth works ruin.