Then he called his twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all the demons and to cure diseases.
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick.
And he said unto them, Take nothing for [your] journey: neither staves nor provision bag neither bread neither money, neither have two coats apiece.
And whatever house ye enter into, abide there and depart from there.
And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
And they departed and went through the towns, preaching the gospel and healing every where.
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him, and he was perplexed because it was said of some that John was risen from the dead,
and of some, that Elijah had appeared, and of others, that one of the old prophets was risen again.
And Herod said, I have beheaded John, but who is this of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him.
And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.
And the people, when they knew [it], followed him, and he received them and spoke unto them of the kingdom of God and healed those that had need of healing.
And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve and said unto him, Send the multitude away that they may go into the towns and country round about and lodge and get victuals, for we are here in a desert place.
But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes, unless we should go and buy food for all these people.
For they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down in companies of fifty.
And they did so and made them all sit down.
Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them and broke and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.
And they ate and were all filled, and there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
And it came to pass as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him, and he asked them, saying, Who do the people say that I am?
They answering said, John the Baptist; but some [say], Elijah; and others [say] that one of the old prophets is risen again.
He said unto them, But who do ye say that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God.
And he straitly charged them and commanded [them] not to tell anyone this,
saying, The Son of man must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and of the princes of the priests and scribes and be slain and be raised the third day.
And he said to [them] all, If anyone will come after me, let them deny themself and take up their stake daily and follow me.
For whosoever desires to save his soul shall lose it, but whosoever will lose his soul for my sake, the same shall save it.
For what is a man advantaged if he gains the whole world, having destroyed himself or having suffered the loss of [himself]?
For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed when he shall come in his own glory and [in his] Father's and of the holy angels.
But I tell you in truth, there are some standing here who shall not taste of death until they see the kingdom of God.
And it came to pass about eight days after these words, he took Peter and John and James and went up into the mountain to pray.
And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment [was] white [and] glistering.
And, behold, two men talked with him, who were Moses and Elijah,
who appeared in majesty and spoke of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem.
But Peter and those that were with him were heavy with sleep, and when they awoke, they saw his glory and the two men that stood with him.
And it came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to remain here; and let us make three tabernacles: one for thee and one for Moses and one for Elijah, not knowing what he said.
While he was speaking this, a cloud came and overshadowed them; and they feared as they entered into the cloud.
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son; hear him.
And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and told no one in those days any of those things which they had seen.
And it came to pass, that on the next day, when they were come down from the mountain, many people met him.
And, behold, a man of the multitude cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son, for he is my only child.
And, behold, a spirit takes him, and he suddenly cries out; and it throws him into convulsions with foaming, and with difficulty it departs from him, bruising him.
And I besought thy disciples to cast him out, and they could not.
And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring thy son here.
And as he was yet a coming, the demon threw him down into convulsions; but Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the child and delivered him again to his father.
And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they all wondered at all [the] things which Jesus did, he said unto his disciples,
Let these words sink down into your ears, for the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.
But they did not understand this word, and it was hid from them that they should not understand, and they feared to ask him regarding this.
Then there arose a dispute among them, which of them should be [the] greatest.
But Jesus, seeing the thoughts of their heart, took a child and set him by him,
and said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receives me, and whosoever shall receive me receives him that sent me; for he that is least among you all, the same shall be great.
And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out demons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us.
And Jesus said unto him, Forbid [him] not, for he that is not against us is for us.
And it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem
and sent messengers before his face; and they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to make ready for him.
And they did not receive him because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem.
And when his disciples James and John saw [this], they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elijah did?
But he turned and rebuked them and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.
For the Son of man is not come to lose men's souls, but to save [them]. And they went to another village.
And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain [man] said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the heaven [have] nests, but the Son of man has not where to lay [his] head.
And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father.
Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead, but go thou and declare the kingdom of God.
And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid farewell those who are at home at my house.
And Jesus said unto him, No one having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God.: