And He went out from there and came to His native place. And His disciples followed Him.
And a sabbath occurring, He began to teach in the synagogue. And hearing, many were amazed, saying, From where came these things to this one? And what is the wisdom given to him, that even such works of power come about through his hands?
Is this one not the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joseph and Judas and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended in Him.
And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his native place, and among the relatives, and in his own house.
And He could do no work of power there, except He performed healing on a few infirm ones, laying on His hands.
And He marveled because of their unbelief. And He went around the villages in a circuit, teaching.
And He called the Twelve near and began to send them out two by two. And He gave them authority over the unclean spirits,
and charged them that they take nothing in the way, except only a staff; no bag, no bread, no copper in the belt;
but having tied on sandals, and not putting on two tunics.
And He said to them, Wherever you enter into a house, remain there until you go out from there.
And as many as will not receive you, nor hear from you, having gone out from there, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony to them. Truly I say to you, it will be more bearable for Sodom or Gomorrah in Judgment Day than for that city.
And going out, they proclaimed that men should repent.
And they cast out many demons, and anointed with oil and healed many sick ones.
And Herod the king heard, for His name became publicly known. And he said, John the Baptist has been raised from the dead, and because of this the works of power operate in him.
Others said, He is Elijah; and others said, He is a prophet or as one of the prophets.
But hearing, Herod said, This one is John whom I beheaded. He has risen from the dead.
For having sent, Herod himself had seized John and bound him in the prison, because of Herodias the wife of his brother Philip, because he had married her.
For John had said to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have the wife of your brother.
And Herodias held it against him, and desired to kill him, but was not able.
For Herod feared John, knowing him to be a holy and just man, and kept him safe. And hearing him, he did many things, and gladly heard from him.
And a suitable day having come, when Herod made a dinner for his great ones on his birthday, also the chiliarchs, and the first ones of Galilee.
And the daughter of Herodias herself entering, and dancing, she also pleased Herod and those reclining with him . The king said to the girl, Ask me whatever you wish, and I will give it to you.
And he swore to her, Whatever you ask me, I will give to you, up to half of my kingdom.
And going out, she said to her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptist.
And immediately going in with haste to the king, she asked, saying, I desire that at once you give to me the head of John the Baptist on a platter.
And becoming deeply grieved, but because of the oaths and those reclining together, the king did not wish to reject her.
And the king sending a guardsman at once, he ordered his head to be brought. And going, he beheaded him in the prison,
and brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl. And the girl gave it to her mother.
And hearing, his disciples went and took his corpse and placed it in a tomb.
And the apostles gathered to Jesus. And they told Him all things, even what they did and what they taught.
And He said to them, You yourselves come apart into a deserted place, and rest a little. For those coming and those going were many, and they did not even have opportunity to eat.
And they departed by boat into a deserted place apart.
And the crowds saw them going, and many recognized Him. And they ran together on foot there, from all the cities, and came before them, and came together to Him.
And going out, Jesus saw a large crowd, and had pity on them, because "they were as sheep having no shepherd." And He began to teach them many things. Num. 27:17; Eze. 34:5
And it now becoming a late hour, drawing near to Him, the disciples said, The place is deserted, and it is now a late hour.
Send them away, that going away to the surrounding fields and villages they may buy bread for themselves. For they do not have what they may eat.
And answering, He said to them, You give them food to eat. And they said to Him, Going, should we buy two hundred denarii of bread and give them to eat?
And He said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And knowing, they said, Five, and two fish.
And He ordered them all to recline, group by group on the green grass.
And they sat, group by group, by hundred and by fifty.
And taking the five loaves and the two fish, looking up to Heaven, He blessed, and broke the loaves, and gave to His disciples, that they might set before them. And He divided the two fish to all.
And all ate, and were satisfied.
And they took up twelve hand baskets full of fragments, also from the fish.
And those eating the loaves were about five thousand men.
And at once He constrained His disciples to enter into the boat, and to go before to the other side, to Bethsaida, until He should dismiss the crowd.
And taking leave of them, He went away to the mountain to pray.
And it becoming evening, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and He alone on the land.
And He saw them being distressed in the rowing, for the wind was contrary to them. And it was about the fourth watch of the night when He came toward them, walking on the sea. And He willed to go by them.
But seeing Him walking on the sea, they thought it to be a ghost. And they cried out.
For all saw Him, and were troubled. And immediately He spoke to them and said to them, Have courage. I AM! Do not fear.
And He went up to them into the boat, and the wind was cut off. And they were amazed, exceedingly beyond measure within themselves, and marveled.
For they did not understand the miracle of the loaves, for their hearts were hardened.
And crossing over, they came into the land of Gennesaret and drew to shore.
And they, coming out of the boat, at once knowing Him,
they ran around all that neighborhood. And they began to carry about those having illness on cots to where they heard that He was.
And wherever He went into villages or cities or fields, they laid the ailing ones in the markets and begged Him if only they may touch the fringe of His garment. And as many as touched Him were healed.