Woe to those who plot wickedness and prepare evil on their beds! When the morning is light they practice it, because it is in the power of their hand.
And they covet and seize fields; and houses, and take them away. And they oppress a man and his household, even a man and his inheritance.
So the LORD says this: Behold, against this family I am plotting an evil from which you shall not remove your necks; nor shall you go proudly, but it is an evil time.
In that day one shall take up a parable against you and mourn a mourning of mournings, saying, We shall be completely laid waste. He has exchanged the share of my people. How He has removed it from me! To the apostate He has divided our fields.
Therefore there shall not be for you one casting a line by lot in the congregation of the LORD.
Do not drop words as they drop! They shall not drop words about these; they shall not draw back reproaches.
House of Jacob, it is said, The Spirit of the LORD is limited, if these are His doings. Do not My words do good to him who walks uprightly?
Even yesterday, My people has risen up like an enemy; you strip off a cloak along with an outer robe, from those who pass by trustingly, those returning from war.
You have thrown the wives of My people out from the house of her delight; from their children you have taken away My majesty forever.
Arise and depart! For this is not your rest, because of destroying uncleanness, even a grievous destruction.
If a man walks with wind and lies falsely, saying, I will drop words to you for wine and for strong drink, he shall even be a dropper of words for this people.
I will surely gather all of you, O Jacob; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel. I will put them together like the sheep of Bozrah, like the flock in the midst of their fold. They shall be in commotion because of men.
The breaker has come up before them; they have broken up, and have passed through the gate, and have gone out of it. And their king shall pass before them, and the LORD at the head of them.