And it came to passe wha men bega to multiplye apo the erth ad had begot them doughters
the sonnes of God sawe the doughters of men that they were fayre and toke vnto them wyves which they best liked amoge the all.
And the LORd sayd: My spirite shall not allwaye stryve withe man for they are flesh. Nevertheles I wyll geue them yet space and hundred and .xx. yeres
There were tirantes in the world in thos dayes. For after that the children of God had gone in vnto the doughters of men and had begotten them childern the same childern were the mightiest of the world and men of renowne
And whan the LORde sawe yt the wekednesse of man was encreased apon the erth and that all the ymaginacion and toughtes of his hert was only evell continually
he repented that he had made man apon the erth and sorowed in his hert.
And sayd: I wyll destroy mankynde which I haue made fro of the face of the erth: both man beast worme and foule of the ayre for it repeteth me that I haue made them.
But yet Noe found grace in the syghte of the LORde.
These are the generatios of Noe. Noe was a righteous man and vncorrupte in his tyme and walked wyth god.
And Noe begat .iij. sonnes: Sem Ham and Iapheth.
And the erth was corrupte in the syghte of god and was full of mischefe.
And God loked vpon the erth ad loo it was corrupte: for all flesh had corrupte his way vppon the erth.
Than sayd God to Noe: the end of all flesh is come before me for the erth is full of there myschefe. And loo I wyll destroy them with the erth.
Make the an arcke of pyne tree and make chaumbers in the arcke and pytch it wythin and wythout wyth pytch.
And of this facion shalt thou make it.The lenth of the arcke shall be .iij. hundred cubytes ad the bredth of it .l. cubytes and the heyth of it .xxx. cubytes.
A wyndow shalt thou make aboue in the arcke. And wythin a cubyte compasse shalt thou finysh it.And the dore of the arcke shalt thou sette in ye syde of it: and thou shalt make it with .iij loftes one aboue an other.
For behold I wil bringe in a floud of water apon the erth to destroy all flesh from vnder heaven wherin breth of life is so that all that is in the erth shall perish.
But I will make myne apoyntement with the that both thou shalt come in to ye arcke and thy sonnes thy wyfe and thy sonnes wyves with the.
And of all that lyveth what soever flesh it be shalt thou brynge in to the arcke of every thynge a payre to kepe them a lyve wyth the. And male and female
se that they be of byrdes in their kynde and of beastes in their kynde and of all maner of wormes of the erth in their kinde: a payre of every thinge shall come vnto the to kepe them a lyve.
And take vnto the of all maner of meate yt may be eaten and laye it vp in stoore by the that it may be meate both for ye and for the:
and Noe dyd acordynge to all that God commaunded hym.