And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.
And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him a man of the tombs, with an unclean spirit,
who had [his] dwelling among the tombs; and no one could bind him, no, not with chains,
because many times he had been bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been broken in pieces by him, and the fetters shattered; neither could anyone tame him.
And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying out and hurting himself with stones.
But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him.
Crying out with a loud voice, he said, What hast thou with me, Jesus, [thou] Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not.
For he said unto him, Come out of the man, [thou] unclean spirit.
And he asked him, What [is] thy name? And he answered, saying, My name [is] Legion, for we are many.
And he besought him much that he would not send him away out of that country.
Now near unto the mountains there was a great herd of swine feeding,
and all those devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.
And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine, and the herd fell over a cliff into the sea (they were about two thousand) and were choked in the sea.
And those that fed the swine fled and told [it] in the city and in the country. And [people] went out to see what it was that had happened.
And they come to Jesus and see him that was tormented by the demon and had the legion sitting and clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
And those that saw [it] told them what happened to him that had the demon and [also] concerning the swine.
And they began to plead with him to depart out of their borders.
And as he was entering into the ship, he that had been troubled by the demon besought him that he might be with him.
But Jesus suffered him not but said unto him, Go home to thy [friends] and family and tell them what great things the Lord has done with thee and [how] he has had mercy on thee.
And he went and began to publish in Decapolis what great things Jesus had done with him, and everyone marveled.
And when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side, a great multitude gathered unto him, and he was near the sea.
And one of the princes of the synagogue came, Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet
and besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death; come and lay thy hands on her that she may be saved, and she shall live.
And [Jesus] went with him; and [a] great multitude followed him and thronged him.
And a [certain] woman, who had an issue of blood twelve years
and had suffered many things of many physicians and had spent all that she had and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse;
when she had heard of Jesus, came from behind among the multitude and touched his garment.
For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be saved.
And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in [her] body that she was healed of that plague.
And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned to the crowd and said, Who touched my clothes?
And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee and sayest thou, Who touched me?
And he looked round about to see her that had done this thing.
But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him and told him all the truth.
And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith has made thee saved; go in peace and remain whole of thy plague.
While he yet spoke, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's [house certain] who said, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Master any further?
As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he said unto the prince of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe.
And he suffered no one to follow him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.
And they came to the house of the prince of the synagogue and saw the tumult and those that wept and wailed greatly.
And when he was come in, he said unto them, Why make ye this ado and weep? The damsel is not dead, but sleeps.
And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out, he took the father and the mother of the damsel and those that were with him and entered in where the damsel was lying.
And taking the damsel by the hand, he said unto her, Talitha cumi, which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.
And straightway the damsel arose and walked, for she was twelve years old. And they were astonished with a great astonishment.
And he charged them straitly that no one should know it and commanded that [something] should be given her to eat.: