But now so says the LORD who created you, O Jacob, and He who formed you, O Israel; Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by your name; you are Mine.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned; nor shall the flame kindle on you.
For I am the LORD your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior; I gave Egypt for your ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for you.
Since you were precious in My sight, you have been honored, and I have loved you; therefore I will give men for you, and people for your life.
Fear not; for I am with you. I will bring your seed from the east, and gather you from the west.
I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Do not keep back; bring My sons from far and My daughters from the ends of the earth;
everyone who is called by My name; for I have created him for My glory, I have formed him; yea, I have made him.
Bring out the blind people who have eyes, and the deaf who have ears.
Let all the nations be brought together, and let the people be gathered; who among them can declare this and make us hear former things? Let them bring out their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, It is true.
You are My witnesses, says the LORD, and My servant whom I have chosen; that you may know and believe Me, and understand that I am He. Before Me no God was formed, nor shall there be after Me.
I, I am the LORD; and there is none to save besides Me.
I have declared, and have saved, and I have shown, when there was no strange god among you; therefore you are My witnesses, says the LORD, that I am God.
Yea, before the day was, I am He; and no one delivers out of My hand; I will work, and who will reverse it?
So says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and have brought down all of them as fugitives, and the Chaldeans, whose shout is in the ships.
I am the LORD, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.
So says the LORD, who makes a way in the sea and a path in the mighty waters;
who brings out the chariot and horse, the army and the power; they shall lie down together, they shall not rise; they are put out, they are snuffed out like a wick.
Do not remember the former things, nor consider the things of old.
Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall sprout; shall you not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, rivers in the desert.
The beasts of the field shall honor Me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to My people, My chosen.
This people that I formed for Myself; they shall declare My praise.
But you have not called on Me, O Jacob; but you have been weary of Me, O Israel.
You have not brought Me the lamb of your burnt offerings; nor have you honored Me with your sacrifices. I have not caused you to serve with an offering, nor wearied you with incense.
You have bought Me no sweet cane with silver, nor have you filled Me with the fat of your sacrifices; but you have burdened Me with your sins; you have wearied Me with your iniquities.
I, I am He who blots out your sins for My own sake, and will not remember your sins.
Cause Me to remember; let us enter into judgment; declare yourself, that you may be justified.
Your first father has sinned, and your teachers have sinned against Me.
And I will defile rulers of the sanctuary, and will give Jacob to the curse, and Israel to reproaches.