But concerning what you wrote to me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman;
but because of fornication, let each have his own wife, and let each have her own husband.
Let the husband give due kindness to the wife, and likewise the wife also to the husband.
The wife does not have authority of her own body, but the husband. And likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife.
Do not deprive one another, unless by agreement for a time, that you may be free for fasting and prayer. And come together again on the same place , that Satan may not tempt you through your incontinence.
But I say this by permission, not by command.
But I desire all men also to be as myself. But each has his own gift from God, one this way, and one that way.
But I say to the unmarried men, and to the widows, it is good for them if they also remain as I.
But if they do not have self control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to be inflamed.
But I command the ones being married (not I, but the Lord), a woman not to be separated from her husband;
but if indeed she is separated, remain unmarried, or be reconciled to the husband; and a husband not to leave his wife.
But to the rest I say, not the Lord, if any brother has an unbelieving wife, and she consents to live with him, let him not leave her.
And a woman who has an unbelieving husband, and he consents to live with her, let her not leave him.
For the unbelieving husband has been sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife has been sanctified by the husband; else, then, your children are unclean, but now they are holy.
But if the unbelieving one separates, let them be separated; the brother or the sister is not in bondage in such matters; but God has called us in peace.
For what do you know, wife, whether you will save the husband? Or what do you know, husband, whether you will save the wife?
Only as God has divided to each, each as the Lord has called, so let him walk. So I command in the churches.
Was anyone called having been circumcised? Do not be uncircumcised. Was anyone called in uncircumcision? Do not be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of God's commands.
Each one in the calling in which he was called, in this remain.
Were you called as a slave? It does not matter to you. But if you are able to be free, rather use it .
For the one called a slave in the Lord is a freed man of the Lord. And likewise, the one called a free man is a slave of Christ.
You were redeemed with a price; do not become slaves of men.
Each in whatever state called, brothers, in this remain with God.
But about virgins, I have no command of the Lord. But I give judgment, as having received mercy by the Lord to be faithful.
Then I think this to be good, because of the present necessity: that it is good for a man to be thus.
Have you been bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released. Have you been released from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
But if you also marry, you do not sin. And if the virgin marries, she does not sin. But such will have trouble in the flesh. But I am sparing you.
But I say this, brothers, that the time has been cut short. For the rest is, that even the ones having wives should be as not having,
and those weeping as not weeping, and those rejoicing as not rejoicing, and those buying as not possessing,
and those using this world as not abusing it ; for the mode of this world is passing away.
But I desire you to be without care. The unmarried one cares for the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord;
but the one marrying cares for the things of the world, how to please the wife.
The wife and the virgin are different. The unmarried one cares for the things of the Lord, that she be holy in both body and spirit. But the married one cares for the things of the world, how to please the husband.
And I say this for your advantage, not that I put a snare before you, but for the fitting thing, and waiting on the Lord without distraction.
But if anyone thinks it behaving indecently toward his virginity (if he is beyond his prime, and so it ought to be), let him do what he desires; he does not sin; let them marry.
But he who stands firm in heart, not having necessity, but has authority as to his own will, and has judged this in his heart, to keep his virginity; he does well.
So that he that gives in marriage does well, and he that does not give in marriage does better.
A wife is bound by law for as long a time as her husband lives; but if her husband sleeps, she is free to be married to whomever she desires, only in the Lord.
But she is happier if she remains so, according to my judgment. And I think I also have the Spirit of God.