And it came to pass, when Jesus ended all these words, he said unto his disciples:
Ye know that, after two days, the passover, taketh place,—and, the Son of Man, is to be delivered up, to be crucified.
Then, were gathered together, the High-priests and the Elders of the people, into the court of the High-priest who was called Caiaphas;
and they took counsel together, in order that, Jesus, by guile, they might secure, and slay.
They were saying, however: Not during the feast, lest, an uproar, arise among the people.
But, Jesus, happening to be in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
there came unto him a woman, holding an alabaster-jar of costly perfume, and she poured it down upon his head, as he was reclining.
And the disciples, seeing it, were greatly displeased, saying—To what end, this loss?
For this could have been sold for much, and given to the destitute.
But Jesus, taking note, said unto them—Why vex ye the woman? for, a seemly work, hath she wrought for me;
For, always, the destitute, have ye with you,—but, me, not always, have ye;
For, she, pouring this perfume upon my body, so as to prepare me for burial, did it.
Verily, I say unto you—Wheresoever this glad-message shall be proclaimed in all the world, also what she did, will be told, as a memorial of her.
Then, went one of the twelve, the one called Judas Iscariot, unto the High-priests,
and said—What are ye willing to give unto me? and, I, unto you, will deliver him up. And they appointed him thirty pieces of silver.
And, from that time, was he seeking a favourable opportunity that he might, deliver him up.
And, on the first of the days of unleavened bread, the disciples came unto Jesus, saying—Where wilt thou, that we make ready for thee to eat the passover?
And, he, said—Go your way into the city, unto such-a-one, and say to him, The teacher, saith, My season, is, near, with thee, will I keep the passover, with my disciples.
And the disciples did, as Jesus directed them, and made ready the passover.
And, when, evening, came, he was reclining with the twelve [disciples];
and, as they were eating, he said—Verily, I say unto you, One from among you, will deliver me up.
And, being exceedingly grieved, they began to be saying to him, each one—Can it be, I, Lord?
And, he, answering, said—He who hath dipped with me his hand in the bowl, the same, will deliver me up.
The Son of Man, indeed, goeth his way, according as it is written concerning him,—But alas! for that man, through whom the Son of Man, is being delivered up: Well, had it been for him, if, that man, had not been born!
And Judas, who was delivering him up, answering, said—Can it be, I, Rabbi? He saith unto him—Thou, hast said.
And, as they were eating, Jesus, taking a loaf and blessing, brake,—and, giving to his disciples, said—Take, eat! This, is, my body.
And, taking a cup, and giving thanks, he gave unto them, saying—Drink of it, all of you;
For, this, is my blood of the covenant, which, for many, is to be poured out, for remission of sins.
Moreover, I say unto you—In nowise, will I drink, henceforth, of this produce of the vine, until that day, whensoever I shall drink it with you, new, in the kingdom of my Father.
And, having sung praise, they went forth unto the Mount of Olives.
Then, Jesus saith unto them—All ye, will find cause of stumbling in me, during this night; for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and, the sheep of the flock, will be scattered abroad;
But, after my arising, I will go before you into Galilee.
Now Peter, answering, said unto him—Though, all, shall find cause of stumbling in thee, I, shall never find cause of stumbling.
Jesus saith unto him: Verily, I say unto thee—During this night, before a cock crow, Thrice, wilt thou deny me.
Peter saith unto him: Even though it be needful for me, with thee to die, in nowise, will I deny thee. Likewise, all the disciples also, said.
Then Jesus cometh with them, into a place called Gethsemane,—and he saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here, while I go yonder and pray.
And, taking with him, Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be grieved and to be in great distress.
Then, saith he unto them: Encompassed with grief, is my soul, unto death: Abide ye here, and be watching with me.
And, going forward a little, he fell upon his face, offering prayer, and saying—My Father! If it is possible, let this cup pass from me,—Nevertheless, not as, I, will, but as, thou, wilt.
And he cometh unto his disciples, and findeth them sleeping, and said unto Peter—Thus, powerless are ye, one hour, to watch with me?
Be watching and praying, that ye may not enter into temptation: The spirit, indeed, is, eager, but, the flesh, weak.
Again, a second time, departing he prayed, saying: My Father! If it is impossible for this to pass, except I, drink, it, Accomplished, be, thy will.
And coming, he, again, found them sleeping, for their eyes had become heavy.
And, leaving them, he, again, departed, and prayed a third time, the same word, saying again.
Then, cometh he unto the disciples, and saith unto them,—Ye are sleeping what time remaineth, and taking your rest: Lo! the hour hath drawn near, and, the Son of Man, is being delivered up into the hands of sinners.
Arise! let us be going,—Lo! he that delivereth me up, hath drawn near.
And, while, yet, he was speaking, lo! Judas, one of the twelve, came, and, with him, a large multitude, with swords and clubs, from the High-priests and Elders of the people.
And, he who was delivering him up, gave them a sign, saying—Whomsoever I shall kiss, he, it is,—secure him.
And, straightway, coming unto Jesus, he said—Joy to thee! Rabbi, and eagerly kissed him.
But, Jesus, said unto him—Friend! wherefore art thou here? Then, coming forward, they thrust their hands upon Jesus, and secured him.
And lo! one of those with Jesus, stretching forth his hand, grasped his sword, and smiting the servant of the High-priest, cut off his ear.
Then, Jesus saith unto him—Put back thy sword into its place, for, all they who take a sword, by a sword, shall perish.
Or thinkest thou that I cannot call upon my Father, and he will set near me, even now, more than twelve legions of messengers?
How then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that, thus, it must needs come to pass?
In that hour, said Jesus unto the multitudes: As against a robber, came ye forth, with swords and clubs, to arrest me? Daily in the temple, used I to sit teaching, and ye secured me not;
But, this, hath, wholly, come to pass, that, the Scriptures of the prophets, may be fulfilled. Then, the disciples, all forsaking him, fled.
And, they who secured Jesus, led him away unto Caiaphas the High-priest, where the Scribes and the Elders gathered themselves together.
Now, Peter, was following him afar off, unto the court of the High-priest,—and, entering within, was sitting with the attendants, to see the end.
Now, the High-priests and all the High-council, were seeking false-witness against Jesus, that they might, put him to death;
and found not any, though many came forward as false-witnesses. At length, however, there came forward, two,
and said: This, man said—I am able to pull down the shrine of God, and, in three days, to, build, it.
And the High-priest, arising, said unto him—Nothing, answerest thou? What are these, against thee bearing witness?
But, Jesus, was silent. And, the High-priest, said unto him: I put thee on oath, by the Living God, that, to us, thou say—Whether, thou, art the Christ, the Son of God.
Jesus saith unto him: Thou, hast said; Moreover, I say unto you—Hereafter, ye will see the Son of Man, sitting on the right hand of power, and coming upon the clouds of heaven.
Then, the High-priest rent asunder his garments, saying—He hath spoken profanely! What further need have we, of witnesses? Lo! now, ye have heard the profanity!
How, to you, doth it seem? And, they, answering, said: Guilty of death, he is.
Then, spat they into his face, and buffeted him; and, others, struck him smartly,
saying—Prophesy unto us, O Christ! Who is he that struck thee?
Now, Peter, was sitting without, in the court; and there came unto him a certain female servant, saying—Thou also, wast with Jesus, the Galilaean.
But, he, denied before all, saying—I know not what thou sayest.
And, when he went out into the porch, another female saw him, and said unto them who were there—This, one was with Jesus the Nazarene.
And, again, he denied, with an oath—I know not the man.
And, after a little, the by-standers, coming forward, said unto Peter: Truly, thou also, art, from among them, for, thy very speech, maketh thee, manifest.
Then, began he to be cursing and swearing—I know not the man! And, straightway, a cock crowed.
And Peter was put in mind of the declaration of Jesus, of his having said—Before a cock crow, thrice, wilt thou utterly deny me; and, going forth outside, he wept bitterly.