In the second year of Joash son of Joahaz king of Israel, began Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah to reign.
Twenty-five years old, was he when he began to reign, and twenty-nine years, reigned he in Jerusalem,—and, his mother’s name, was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
And he did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh, only, not like David his father: according to all that Joash his father did, so he did;
only, the high places, took they not away,—still were the people sacrificing and burning incense in the high places.
And it came to pass that, as soon as the kingdom was confirmed in his hand, he smote his servants who smote the king his father;
but, the sons of them that smote him, slew he not,—as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, which Yahweh commanded, saying—Fathers, shall not be put to death, for sons, nor shall, sons, be put to death, for fathers, but every man, for his own sin, shall be put to death.
He, smote Edom, in the valley of salt, ten thousand, and seized Sela, in the war,—and called the name thereof Joktheel, [as it is] until this day.
Then, sent Amaziah messengers unto Jehoash son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying,—Come now, let us look one another in the face.
And Jehoash king of Israel sent unto Amaziah king of Judah, saying, A thistle that was in Lebanon, sent unto a cedar that was in Lebanon, saying—Give thy daughter to my son to wife,—and there passed by a beast of the field that was in Lebanon, and trampled down the thistle:
Thou hast, smitten, Edom, and, thy heart, would lift thee up,—Glory, and stay at home! Wherefore, then, shouldest thou contend with misfortune, and fall, thou, and Judah with thee?
But Amaziah hearkened not. So then Jehoash king of Israel came up, and they looked one another in the face, he and Amaziah king of Judah,—in Beth-shemesh, which belongeth unto Judah.
Then was Judah defeated before Israel,—and they fled, every man to his own home;
and, upon Amaziah, king of Judah, son of Jehoash son of Ahaziah, did Jehoash king of Israel, seize, in Beth-shemesh,—and entered Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem, at the gate of Ephraim, as far as the corner gate, four hundred cubits;
and took all the gold and the silver and all the vessels that were found in the house of Yahweh, and in the treasuries of the house of the king, and hostages,—and returned to Samaria.
Now, the rest of the story of Jehoash, what he did, and his might and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are, they, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria, with the kings of Israel,—and, Jeroboam his son, reigned, in his stead.
And Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah, lived, after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, fifteen years.
Now, the rest of the story of Amaziah, is, it, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
And, when they made against him a conspiracy in Jerusalem, he fled to Lachish,—but they sent after him to Lachish, and slew him, there.
And they bare him on horses,—and he was buried in Jerusalem, with his fathers, in the city of David.
And all the people of Judah took Azariah, he, being sixteen yearn old,—and made, him, king instead of his father Amaziah.
He, built Elath, and restored it to Judah,—after the king slept with his fathers.
In the fifteenth year of Amaziah, son of Joash, king of Judah, began Jeroboam, son of Joash, king of Israel, to reign in Samaria, [and he reigned] forty-one years.
And he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh,—he turned not away from any of the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he caused, Israel, to commit.
He, restored the boundary of Israel, from the entering in of Hamath, unto the sea of the waste plain,—according to the word of Yahweh, God of Israel, which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah, son of Amittai, the prophet, who was of Gath-hepher.
For Yahweh saw the humiliation of Israel, that it was bitter, indeed,—and that there was no one shut up, nor any one left at large, no one indeed to help Israel.
Neither had Yahweh spoken, to wipe out the name of Israel from under the heavens,—so he saved them, by the hand of Jeroboam son of Joash.
Now, the rest of the story of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his might when he warred, and how he restored Damascus and Hamath to Judah in Israel, are, they, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, with the kings of Israel,—and, Zechariah his son, reigned, in his stead.