O give thanks to the LORD; call on His name; make known His deeds among the people.
Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; talk of all His wonderful works.
Glory in His holy name; let the heart of those who seek the LORD rejoice.
Seek the LORD and His strength; seek His face evermore.
Remember His marvelous works which He has done, His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth,
seed of His servant Abraham, sons of Jacob His chosen.
He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth.
He has remembered His covenant forever, the word which He commanded to a thousand generations;
the covenant which He made with Abraham, and His oath to Isaac;
and He confirmed it to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant,
saying, To you I will give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;
when they were a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it.
When they went from one nation to another, from a kingdom to another people,
He allowed no man to do them wrong; yea, He reproved kings for their sakes,
saying, Touch not my anointed, and do My prophets no harm.
And He called for a famine on the land; He broke the whole staff of bread.
He sent a man before them, Joseph, being sold for a servant;
whose feet they hurt with chains; he was laid in iron,
until the time that his word came, the word of the LORD refined him.
The king sent and set him free; the ruler of the people, and let him go free.
He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all he owned,
to chain his leaders at his pleasure, and teach his elders wisdom.
Israel also came into Egypt, and Jacob resided in the land of Ham.
And He increased His people greatly and made them stronger than their enemies.
He turned their heart to hate His people, to deal craftily with His servants.
He sent Moses His servant, and Aaron whom He had chosen.
They showed His signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.
He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they did not rebel against His word.
He turned their waters into blood, and killed their fish.
Their land swarmed with frogs in the rooms of their kings.
He spoke, and there came fly swarms and gnats in all their borders.
He gave them hail for rain and flaming fire in their land.
He struck their vines also and their fig trees, and broke the trees of their borders.
He spoke, and locusts came, and larvae without number;
and they ate up all the plants in their land, and ate the fruit of their ground.
He also struck all the first-born in their land, the chief of all their strength.
He also brought them out with silver and gold; and there was not one feeble person among their tribes.
Egypt was glad when they departed; for the fear of them had fallen on them.
He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light in the night.
They asked, and He brought quail, and satisfied them with the food of heaven.
He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river.
For He remembered His holy promise and Abraham His servant.
And He brought forth His people with joy, and His chosen with gladness,
and gave them the lands of the nations; and they inherited the labor of the people,
so that they might take heed to His statutes and keep His laws. Praise the LORD!