Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, a called apostle, set apart for the gospel of God,
which he formerly promised through his prophets in the holy scriptures,
concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who was born of the posterity of David according to the flesh,
but declared to be the Son of God with power, according to his holy spiritual nature, by his resurrection from the dead,
through whom we have received grace and apostleship, in order to the obedience of faith among all nations, for the honor of his name,
among whom are you also the called of Jesus Christ,
to all that are in Rome, beloved of God, called saints: Grace be to you, and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
First, I thank my God, through Jesus Christ, on account of you all, because your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world.
For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that, without ceasing, I make mention of you,
always in my prayers making request, that, if possible, I may at length have a prosperous journey, by the will of God to come to you.
For I greatly desire to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, in order that you may be established;
that is, that I may both give and receive comfort, while I am among you, through our common faith.
But, brethren, I do not wish you to be ignorant that I often purposed to come to you, though I have been hindered to the present time, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles.
I am a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians; both to the wise and to the unwise.
So that, as far as I am able, I am ready to preach the gospel to you also, who are in Rome.
For I am not ashamed of the Gospel: for it is the power of God in order to salvation, to every one that believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
For in it the righteousness of God by faith is revealed, in order to faith: as it is written, He that is justified by faith, shall live.
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who, by unrighteousness, restrain the truth.
Because that which may be known of God, is manifest among them; for God has made it manifest to them,
(for, since the creation of the world, his attributes, which are invisible, are clearly seen, being perceived through the things that are made, both his eternal power and divinity,) that they may be without excuse;
because, when they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were they thankful; but they became perverse in their reasonings, and their wicked heart was darkened;
professing to be wise, they became foolish,
and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image like corruptible man, and birds, and four-footed beasts, and creeping things.
For which reason God delivered them up, in the desires of their hearts, to uncleanness, that they might dishonor their bodies among themselves;
who exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
For this reason, God delivered them over to vile passions: for their females exchanged their natural use for that which is against nature:
and in like manner also the males, leaving the natural use of the females, burned in their lusts one toward another, males with males practicing infamous lewdness, and receiving in themselves the due reward of their error.
And as they refused to acknowledge God, God delivered them up to an undiscerning mind, to do detestable things;
as they were filled with all unrighteousness, lewdness, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, contention, deceit, malignity;
whisperers, evil-speakers, haters of God, insolent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents;
without understanding, covenant-breakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful;
who, acknowledging the judgment of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but approve those who practice them.