For we know that if our earthly house, which is but a tent, should be destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house that is from heaven,
since, having been clothed, we shall not be found naked.
For we who are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened, not because we wish to be unclothed, but clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
Now, he that has formed us for this very thing is God, who also has given us the earnest of the Spirit.
Therefore, we are always confident, especially since we know that, while living in the body, we are absent from the Lord:
for we walk by faith, not by sight:
we are confident, indeed, and would be pleased rather to depart from the body, and to dwell with the Lord.
For this reason we also endeavor, whether we remain in the body or depart from it, to be acceptable to him.
For we must all appear before the judgment-seat of Christ, that each may receive his reward for the things done in his body, according to what he has done, whether good or evil.
Knowing, then, the fearful judgment of the Lord, we persuade men; but we are made manifest to God. I hope, indeed, that we are also made manifest in your consciences.
We do not again commend ourselves to you, but give you an occasion to boast of us, that you may be able to answer those who glory in appearance, and not in heart.
For if we be beside ourselves, it is for God; or, if we be of sound mind, it is for you.
For the love of Christ constrains us, because we have this judgment―that if one died for all, then have all died:
and he died for all, that those who live should no more live for themselves, but for him who died for them, and rose again.
So, then, we henceforth know no man according to the flesh; if, indeed, we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we no longer thus know him.
So, then, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature; the old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new.
And all these things are from God, who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ, and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
that is, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not charging their offenses to them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation.
Therefore, we act as ambassadors for Christ, as though God entreated through us; we beseech in Christ’s stead, be reconciled to God:
for he has made him, who knew no sin, a sin-offering for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him.