And he was speaking a parable unto them, as to its being needful for them always to pray, and not be faint-hearted;
saying—A certain judge, there was in a certain city,—having, for God, no reverence, and, for man, no respect.
And, a widow, there was, in that city; and she kept coming unto him, saying—Vindicate me from mine adversary!
And he was unwilling for a time; but, after these things, he said within himself—Although, neither God, I reverence, nor man, I respect,
Yet, if only because this widow annoyeth me, I will vindicate her,—lest, persistently coming, she wholly wear me out.
And the Lord said—Hear ye what, the unrighteous judge saith;—
And shall, God, in any wise not execute the vindication of his chosen ones, who are crying out to him day and night, although he beareth long with regard to them?
I tell you—He will execute their vindication, quickly! nevertheless, though, the Son of Man, do come, will he, after all, find the faith on the earth?
And he spake, even unto certain who were confident in themselves that they were righteous, and were despising the rest, this parable:—
Two men, went up into the temple to pray, one, a Pharisee, and, the other, a tax-collector.
The Pharisee, taking his stand, these things unto himself was praying: O God! I thank thee, that I am not like the rest of men,—extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or, even as this tax-collector;
I fast twice in the week, I give a tenth of whatsoever things I gain!
But, the tax-collector, afar off, standing,—would not so much as lift up, his eyes, unto heaven, but kept smiting his own breast saying—O God! be propitiated unto me, the sinner!
I tell you—This one went down justified, unto his house, rather than that one; because, every one who exalteth himself, shall be abased, but, he that abaseth himself, shall be exalted?
And they were bringing unto him, even the babes, that he might touch, them; but the disciples, seeing it, began to rebuke them.
But, Jesus, called them near, saying—Suffer, the children, to be coming unto me, and do not hinder them; for, of such, is the kingdom of God.
Verily I say unto you—Whosoever shall not welcome the kingdom of God, as a child, in nowise shall enter thereinto.
And a certain, ruler, questioned him, saying—Good Teacher! by doing what, shall I inherit life age-abiding?
But Jesus said to him—Why, callest thou me, good? None, is good, save one—God.
The commandments, thou knowest:—Do not commit adultery, Do not commit murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness,—Honour thy father and mother,
And, he, said—All these things, have I kept from my youth.
And Jesus, hearing, said unto him—Yet one thing, unto thee, is lacking: Whatsoever thou hast, sell, and distribute unto the destitute,—and thou shalt have treasure in [the] heavens; and come! be following me.
But, he, hearing these things, became, encompassed with grief; for he was rich exceedingly.
And Jesus, beholding him, said—With what difficulty, shall, they who have money, enter, into the kingdom of God.
For it is, easier, for a camel, to enter, through the eye of a needle, than for, a rich man, to enter, into the kingdom of God.
And they who heard said—Who, then, can be saved?
And, he, said—The things impossible with men, are, possible with God.
And Peter said—Lo! we, have left our own possessions, and followed thee!
And, he, said unto them—Verily, I say unto you—No one, is there, who hath left—house, or wife, or brethren, or parents, or children,—for the sake of the kingdom of God;
who shall in anywise not receive manifold in this season, and, in the age that is coming, life age-abiding.
And, taking aside the twelve, he said unto them—Lo! we are going up unto Jerusalem, and all the things will be finished, which have been written through means of the prophets, respecting the Son of Man;
For he will be delivered up unto the nations, and be mocked, and insulted, and spit upon,—
and, having scourged him, they will slay him, and, on the third day, will, he, arise.
And, they, not one of these things, understood, and this saying was hidden from them, and the could not comprehend the things spoken.
And it came to pass, as he was drawing near unto Jericho, a certain blind man, was sitting beside the road, begging.
And. hearkening unto a multitude moving along, he enquired, what this, might be.
And they told him—Jesus of Nazareth, is passing by!
And he cried aloud, saying—Jesus, son of David! have mercy upon me!
And, they that were going before, began to rebuke him, that he might hold his peace. But, he, by so much the more, was crying out—O Son of David! have mercy upon me!
And, standing still, Jesus commanded him to be led unto him; and, when he had drawn near, he questioned him—
What desirest thou, I should do unto thee? And, he, said—Lord! …that I may recover sight!
And, Jesus, said unto him—Recover sight! Thy faith, hath saved thee.
And, instantly, he recovered sight, and began to follow him, glorifying God. And, all the people, beholding, gave praise unto God.