The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the burden: The man spoke to Ithiel, even to Ithiel and Ucal, saying ,
Surely I am more brutish than anyone, and I do not have the understanding of a man.
I have not learned wisdom, but I do know the knowledge of holiness.
Who has gone up to Heaven, and come down? Who has gathered the wind in His fists? Who has bound the waters in His garments? Who has made all the ends of the earth to rise? What is His name, and what is His Son's name? Surely you know.
Every word of God is tested, He is a shield to those who seek refuge in Him.
Do not add to His words, that He not reprove you, and you be found a liar.
I have asked two things from You: Do not hold back from me before I die,
Remove vanity and a lying word far from me, do not give me poverty or riches; tear for me my portion of bread,
that I not become full and deceive, and say, Who is Jehovah? Or that I not become poor and steal, and violate the name of my God.
Do not slander a servant to his master, that he not curse you, and you be found guilty.
A generation curses its father, and does not bless its mother,
a generation pure in its own eyes, and yet not washed from its own filth.
There is a generation, Oh how lofty are its eyes! And its eyelids are lifted up,
a generation whose teeth are like swords, and its jaw teeth like knives, to devour the poor from the earth, and the needy from among men.
The leech has two daughters crying , Give! Give! Three things are not satisfied, four never have said, Enough!
Sheol, and the barren womb, the earth not filled with water, and the fire, these never said, Enough!
The eye that mocks its father, and despises to obey its mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, the sons of the eagle shall eat it.
Three things are too wonderful for me; yea, I do not know the way of four:
The way of an eagle in the heavens, the way of a snake on a rock, the way of a ship in the heart of the sea, and the way of a man with a virgin.
So is the way of an adulterous woman: She eats, and wipes her mouth, and says, I have done no evil.
The earth quakes under three things ; yea, it is not able to bear up under four:
under a servant when he reigns, and a fool when he is filled with food,
under a hated one when she is married, under a slave-girl when she is heir to her mistress.
Four things are little on the earth, but they are the wise ones of those made wise:
The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their food in summer;
rock badgers are not a powerful people, yet they make their houses in the rock;
the locusts have no king, yet they go out in a swarm, all of them;
the lizard you can take with the hands, yet it is in king's palaces.
There are three things that go well in a march; yea, four that go well in walking:
a lion is mighty among beasts, and he does not turn away from facing all;
one girded in loins, and a he goat, and a king when his army is with him.
If you have been foolish in lifting yourself up, or if you have thought evil, lay your hand on your mouth!
Surely, the squeezing of milk brings curds, and the squeezing of the nose brings blood; so the squeezing of wrath brings out strife.