I AM the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman.
Every branch in me that beareth no fruit, he taketh it away: and every branch that beareth fruit, he pruneth it clean, that it may bring forth more fruit.
Ye are already clean through the word which I have spoken unto you.
Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abide in the vine: so neither can ye, except ye abide in me.
I am the vine, ye are the branches: he that abideth in me, and I in him, this person beareth much fruit: because without me ye can do nothing.
If any man abide not in me, he is cast out as a branch, and withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask whatsoever ye will, and it shall be done for you.
Herein is my Father glorified, that ye should bring forth much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples.
Just as the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you: abide in my love.
If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and as I abide in his love.
These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy may abide in you, and your joy may be full.
This is my commandment, That ye love one another, just as I have loved you.
Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever things I command you.
I no more call you servants; for the servant knoweth not what his master is doing: but I have called you friends because I have made known to you all things which I have heard of my Father.
Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and appointed you that ye should go forth and bear fruit, and that your fruit should be permanent: that so whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he may give it you.
These things I command you, that ye love one another.
If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before you.
If ye were of the world, the world would love its own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have elected you out of the world, for this very cause the world hateth you.
Remember the word which I spake unto you, The servant is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also; if they have observed my words, they will observe your’s also.
But all these things will they do unto you for my name’s sake, because they know not him that sent me.
Had I not come and spoken to them, they would not have had sin: but now they have no excuse for their sin.
He that hateth me hateth my Father also.
If I had not done among them the works which no other ever did, they would not have had sin: but now they have both seen and hated both me and my Father.
But it is in order that the word may be fulfilled which is written in their law, “They hated me without a cause.”
But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me:
and ye too shall bear your testimony, because ye have been with me from the beginning.