After these things, Iesus walked in Galile, and woulde not walke in Iudea: for the Iewes sought to kill him.
Nowe the Iewes feast of the Tabernacles was at hande.
His brethren therefore sayde vnto him, Depart hence, and goe into Iudea, that thy disciples may see thy woorkes that thou doest.
For there is no man that doeth any thing secretely, and hee himselfe seeketh to be famous. If thou doest these things, shewe thy selfe to the worlde.
For as yet his brethren beleeued not in him.
Then Iesus saide vnto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway readie.
The world can not hate you: but me it hateth, because I testifie of it, that the workes thereof are euill.
Go ye vp vnto this feast: I wil not go vp yet vnto this feast: for my time is not yet fulfilled.
These things he sayde vnto them, and abode still in Galile.
But assoone as his brethren were gone vp, then went hee also vp vnto the feast, not openly, but as it were priuilie.
Then the Iewes sought him at the feast, and saide, Where is hee?
And much murmuring was there of him among the people. Some said, He is a good man: other sayd, Nay: but he deceiueth the people.
Howbeit no man spake openly of him for feare of the Iewes.
Nowe when halfe the feast was done, Iesus went vp into the Temple and taught.
And the Iewes marueiled, saving, Howe knoweth this man the Scriptures, seeing that hee neuer learned!
Iesus answered them, and saide, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.
If any man will doe his will, he shall knowe of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speake of my selfe.
Hee that speaketh of himselfe, seeketh his owne glorie: but hee that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no vnrighteousnes is in him.
Did not Moses giue you a Law, and yet none of you keepeth the lawe? Why goe ye about to kill me?
The people answered, and said, Thou hast a deuil: who goeth about to kill thee?
Iesus answered, and saide to them, I haue done one worke, and ye all maruaile.
Moses therefore gaue vnto you circumcision, (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers) and ye on the Sabbath day circumcise a man.
If a man on the Sabbath receiue circumcision, that the Lawe of Moses should not be broken, be ye angrie with me, because I haue made a man euery whit whole on the Sabbath day?
Iudge not according to the appearance, but iudge righteous iudgement.
Then saide some of them of Hierusalem, Is not this he, whom they goe about to kill?
And beholde, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing to him: doe the rulers know in deede that this is in deede that Christ?
Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when that Christ commeth, no man shall knowe whence he is.
Then cried Iesus in the Temple as hee taught, saying, Ye both knowe mee, and knowe whence I am: yet am I not come of my selfe, but he that sent me, is true, whome ye knowe not.
But I knowe him: for I am of him, and he hath sent me.
Then they sought to take him, but no man layde handes on him, because his houre was not yet come.
Now many of the people beleeued in him, and said, When that Christ commeth, will he doe moe miracles then this man hath done?
The Pharises heard that the people murmured these thinges of him, and the Pharises, and high Priestes sent officers to take him.
Then saide Iesus vnto them, Yet am I a little while with you, and then goe I vnto him that sent mee.
Ye shall seeke me, and shall not finde me, and where I am, can ye not come.
Then saide the Iewes amongs themselues, Whither will he goe, that we shall not finde him? Will he goe vnto them that are dispersed among the Grecians, and teache the Grecians?
What saying is this that hee saide, Ye shall seeke mee, and shall not finde mee? and where I am, cannot ye come?
Nowe in the last and great day of the feast, Iesus stoode and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come vnto me, and drinke.
Hee that beleeueth in mee, as saith the Scripture, out of his bellie shall flowe riuers of water of life.
(This spake hee of the Spirite which they that beleeued in him, should receiue: for the holy Ghost was not yet giuen, because that Iesus was not yet glorified.)
So many of the people, when they heard this saying, said, Of a trueth this is that Prophet.
Other saide, This is that Christ: and some said, But shall that Christ come out of Galile?
Saith not the Scripture that that Christ shall come of the seede of Dauid, and out of the towne of Beth-leem, where Dauid was?
So was there dissension among the people for him.
And some of them would haue taken him, but no man layde handes on him.
Then came the officers to the hie Priests and Pharises, and they said vnto them, Why haue ye not brought him?
The officers answered, Neuer man spake like this man.
Then answered them the Pharises, Are yee also deceiued?
Doeth any of the rulers, or of the Pharises beleeue in him?
But this people, which know not the Law, are cursed.
Nicodemus said vnto them, (he that came to Iesus by night, and was one of them.)
Doth our Law iudge a man before it heare him, and knowe what he hath done?
They answered, and said vnto him, Art thou also of Galile? Searche and looke: for out of Galile ariseth no Prophet.
And euery man wet vnto his owne house.