And he showed me a pure river of water of life, bright as crystal, coming out from the throne of God and of the Lamb,
in the middle of its thoroughfare. And on this side of the river and on that was a tree of life, bearing twelve fruits, yielding its fruit according to each month. And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
And there will be no curse there. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his bondmen will serve him.
And they will see his face, and his name is on their foreheads.
And there will be no night there, and they have no need of a lamp and the light of sun, because the Lord God will illuminate them. And they will reign into the ages of the ages.
And he says to me, These words are faithful and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his agent to show to his bondmen the things that must quickly come to pass.
And behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.
And I am John, the man hearing and seeing these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship before the feet of the agent showing me these things.
And he says to me, See thou not. I am thy fellow bondman, and of thy brothers the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book. Worship God!
And he says to me, Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near.
Let the man doing wrong still do wrong, and let the filthy man still be filthy. And let the righteous man still do righteousness, and let the holy man still be holy.
Behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me to render to each man as his work will be
-I, the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.
Blessed are those doing his commandments, so that their right will be to the tree of life, and they may enter in the gates into the city.
Outside are the dogs, and the sorcerers, and the fornicators, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and every man who loves and makes a lie.
I, Jesus, have sent my agent to testify these things to you for the congregations. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright, the morning star.
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And he who hears, let him say, Come. And he who is thirsty, let him come. He who desires, let him take the water of life freely.
I testify to every man who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, if any man should add to them, God will add to him the seven plagues that are written in this book.
And if any man takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life, and from the holy city, the things written in this book.
He who testifies these things says, Yea, I come quickly. Truly. Yea, come, Lord Jesus!
The grace of the Lord Jesus is with all the sanctified. Truly.