BE ye imitators of me, as I am of Christ.
Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things, and hold fast the injunctions as I delivered them unto you.
But I desire you to take notice that the head of every man is Christ; but the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God.
Every man praying or prophesying, holding a veil over his head, dishonoureth his head;
but every woman praying or prophesying with her head unveiled, dishonoureth her head; for it is one and the same thing, as if she were shaven.
For if the woman be not veiled, let her hair be clipped: but if it would be scandalous for a woman to appear clipped or shaved, let her be veiled.
For a man indeed ought not to veil his head, being the image and the glory of God; but the woman is the glory of the man.
For the man is not from the woman, but the woman from the man.
Also the man was not created for the woman, but the woman for the man.
Therefore ought the woman to retain upon her head this badge of authority, because of the angels of the churches.
Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, nor the woman without the man in the Lord.
For as the woman was taken out of the man, so also is the man by the woman: but all things are of God.
Judge among yourselves, is it decent for a woman to be praying to God without a covering?
Does not even nature itself teach you, that if a man wear long flowing hair it is a dishonour to him?
But if a woman let her hair flow, it is an ornament to her; for the hair was given her for a covering,
But if any man mean to be contentious about it, we have no such custom, nor the churches of God.
But in the matter I am going to denounce, I do not commend you, that ye meet together not for the better, but for the worse.
For in the first place, when ye assemble in the church, I hear that there are divisions among you; and I partly believe it.
For there must be heresies among you, that they who are the tried ones, may be made manifest among you.
When therefore ye assemble in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord’s supper.
For one in the eating it taketh before another his own supper: and one is hungry, and another drinks to excess.
What! have ye not houses to eat in and to drink? or despise ye the church of God, and make those ashamed who have none? What shall I say unto you? shall I praise you in this? I praise you not.
For I received of the Lord what also I delivered to you, That the Lord Jesus, in the night in which he was betrayed, took a loaf:
and when he had blessed it, he brake it, and said, Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for you: do this in remembrance of me.
In like manner also he took the cup, after they had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood: this do, as often as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.
For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do shew forth the death of the Lord till he come.
Wherefore, whosoever eateth of this bread, or drinketh the cup of the Lord unworthily, he is guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup.
For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh condemnation to himself, not distinguishing the Lord’s body.
For this cause many are diseased and infirm among you, and some asleep in death.
For if we thoroughly judged ourselves, we should not be judged of the Lord.
But being judged, we are corrected by the Lord, that we might not be condemned with the world.
Wherefore, when ye meet together to eat the Lord’s supper, wait for one another.
And if any man be hungry, let him eat at home; that ye meet not together for condemnation. And the other matters I will regulate when I come.