And David and the captains of the host set apart for service, unto the sons of Asaph and Heman and Jeduthun, such as should prophesy, with lyres, with harps, and with cymbals,—and, the number of the workers, for their service, was:
Of the sons of Asaph, Zaccur and Joseph and Nethaniah and Asarelah, the sons of Asaph,—under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king.
Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun,—Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah—six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun, with the lyre, as he prophesied, in giving thanks and offering praise unto Yahweh.
Of Heman, the sons of Heman—Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jeremoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
All these, were sons of Heman, the seer of the king in the things of God, at the lifting of the horn. And God gave to Heman, fourteen sons and three daughters,
All these, were under the direction of their father, in the singing of the house of Yahweh, with cymbals, harps and lyres, for the service of the house of God,—Asaph and Jeduthun and Heman, under the direction of the king.
And, the number of them—with their brethren, who were instructed in singing unto Yahweh,—even all the skilful, was two hundred and eighty-eight.
So they cast lots for their charges, all alike, as the small so the great, the teacher with the learner.
And the first lot came forth for Asaph, to Joseph,—Gedaliah, the second, he and his brethren and his sons, twelve.
The third, Zaccur, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The fourth, to Izri, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The fifth, Nethaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The sixth, Bukkiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The seventh, Jesharelah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The eighth, Jeshaiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The ninth, Mattaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The tenth, Shimei, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The eleventh, Azarel, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
The twelfth, to Hashabiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the fifteenth, to Jeremoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the sixteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the seventeenth, to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the eighteenth, to Hanani, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the nineteenth, to Mallothi, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the twentieth, to Eliathah, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the twenty-second, to Giddalti, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the twenty-third, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brethren, twelve.
As the twenty-fourth, to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brethren, twelve.