Boast not thy selfe of to morowe: for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.
Let another man prayse thee, and not thine owne mouth: a stranger, and not thine owne lips.
A stone is heauie, and the sand weightie: but a fooles wrath is heauier then them both.
Anger is cruell, and wrath is raging: but who can stand before enuie?
Open rebuke is better then secret loue.
The wounds of a louer are faithful, and the kisses of an enemie are pleasant.
The person that is full, despiseth an hony combe: but vnto the hungry soule euery bitter thing is sweete.
As a bird that wandreth from her nest, so is a man that wandreth from his owne place.
As oyntment and perfume reioyce the heart, so doeth the sweetenes of a mans friend by hearty counsell.
Thine owne friend and thy fathers friend forsake thou not: neither enter into thy brothers house in the day of thy calamitie: for better is a neighbour that is neere, then a brother farre off.
My sonne, be wise, and reioyce mine heart, that I may answere him that reprocheth me.
A prudent man seeth the plague, and hideth himselfe: but the foolish goe on still, and are punished.
Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and a pledge of him for the stranger.
He that prayseth his friend with a loude voyce, rising earely in the morning, it shall be counted to him as a curse.
A continual dropping in the day of raine, and a contentious woman are alike.
He that hideth her, hideth the winde, and she is as ye oyle in his right hand, that vttereth it selfe.
Yron sharpeneth yron, so doeth man sharpen the face of his friend.
He that keepeth the fig tree, shall eate the fruite thereof: so he that waiteth vpon his master, shall come to honour.
As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.
The graue and destruction can neuer be full, so the eyes of man can neuer be satisfied.
As is the fining pot for siluer and the fornace for golde, so is euery man according to his dignitie.
Though thou shouldest bray a foole in a morter among wheate brayed with a pestell, yet will not his foolishnes depart from him.
Be diligent to know ye state of thy flocke, and take heede to the heardes.
For riches remaine not alway, nor the crowne from generation to generation.
The hey discouereth it selfe, and the grasse appeareth, and the herbes of the mountaines are gathered.
The lambes are for thy clothing, and the goates are the price of the fielde.
And let the milke of the goates be sufficient for thy foode, for the foode of thy familie, and for the sustenance of thy maydes.