And it happened many days after Jehovah had given rest to Israel from all their enemies all around, that Joshua was old, going on in days.
And Joshua called for all Israel, for its elders, and for its heads, and for its judges, and for its officers, and said to them, I have become old, I have advanced in days;
and you have seen all that Jehovah your God has done to all these nations because of you, for Jehovah your God was He who was fighting for you.
Behold, I have caused to fall to you these nations that are left to be an inheritance for your tribes, from Jordan, with all the nations that I have cut off, as far as the Great Sea, toward the setting of the sun.
And Jehovah your God will thrust them out from before you, and will expel them from before you, and you shall possess their land, as Jehovah your God has spoken to you.
And you shall be very strong to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, so as not to turn aside from it to the right or to the left;
so as not to go in among these nations, these who are left with you; and that you do not make mention of the name of their gods, nor shall you swear, nor shall you serve them, nor shall you bow yourselves to them.
But you shall cling to Jehovah your God, as you have done until today.
And Jehovah has expelled from before you great and mighty nations. As for you no one has stood before you until today.
One man of you shall pursue a thousand; for Jehovah your God is He who is fighting for you, as He has spoken to you.
And you shall be very watchful for yourselves to love Jehovah your God.
But if you at all turn away and cleave to the remnant of the nations, of those who are left to you, and intermarry with them, and go in to them, and they to you,
know certainly that Jehovah your God shall not continue to expel these nations from before you, and they shall be snares and traps to you, and scourges in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from this good land which Jehovah your God has given you.
And, behold! Today I am going in the way of all the earth, and you know with all your heart and with all your soul that there has not failed one thing of all the good things which Jehovah your God has spoken concerning you; all of it has come to you; there has not one thing failed of it.
And it shall be, as every good thing which Jehovah your God has spoken to you comes to you, so shall Jehovah bring on you every evil thing, until He destroys you from off this good land which Jehovah your God has given to you,
when you transgress the covenant of Jehovah your God which He commanded you, and when you have gone and served other gods, and have bowed yourselves to them, then the anger of Jehovah shall glow against you; and you shall perish quickly from off the good land which He has given to you.