And it shall be, if thou wilt, hearken, unto the voice of Yahweh thy God, to observe to do all his commandments which I am commanding thee to-day, then will Yahweh thy God set thee on high, above all the nations of the earth;
and all these blessings shall come in upon thee, and reach thee,—because thou dost hearken unto the voice of Yahweh thy God:—
Blessed shalt, thou be in the city,—and blessed shalt thou be in the field:
Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground and the fruit of thy cattle,—the young of thy kine, and the ewes of thy flock:
Blessed, shall be thy basket and thy kneading-trough:
Blessed, shalt thou be when thou comest in,—and, blessed, shalt thou be when thou goest out:
Yahweh will deliver thine enemies who rise up against thee, to be routed before thee,—one way, shall they come out against thee, and seven ways, shall they flee before thee:
Yahweh will command to be with thee the blessing, in thy storehouses and in all whereunto thou settest thy hand,—and will bless thee in the land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee:
Yahweh will confirm thee unto himself for a holy people, as he sware unto thee,—because thou dost keep the commandments of Yahweh thy God, and dost walk in his ways.
And all the peoples of the earth shall see that, the name of Yahweh, hath been called upon thee,—and shall be afraid of thee.
And Yahweh will cause thee to abound in that which is good, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle and in the fruit of thy soil,—upon the soil which Yahweh sware unto thy fathers, to give unto thee:
Yahweh will open unto thee his rich storehouse—the heavens, to give the rain of thy land in its season, and to bless every work of thy hand, so shalt thou lend unto many nations, but thou, shalt not borrow:
And Yahweh, will give thee, to be the head, and not the tail, and thou shalt be only above, and shalt not be beneath,—because thou dost hearken unto the commandments of Yahweh thy God, which I am commanding thee, to-day, to observe and to do;
and dost not turn side from any of the words which I am commanding you to-day, to the right hand or to the left,—to go after other gods, to serve them,
But it shall be, if thou do not hearken unto the voice of Yahweh thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I am commanding thee to-day, then shall come in upon thee all these curses and shall reach thee:—
Cursed, shalt thou be in the city,—and cursed, shalt thou be in the field:
Cursed, shall be thy basket, and thy kneading-trough:
Cursed, shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground—the young of thy kine and the ewes of thy flock:
Cursed, shalt thou be, when thou comest in,—and, cursed, shalt thou be, when thou goest out:
Yahweh will send upon thee cursing, confusion and rebuke, in all whereunto thou settest thy hand that thou mayest do it,—until thou be destroyed and until thou perish quickly, because of the wickedness of thy doings, whereby thou hast forsaken me.
Yahweh will cause to cleave unto thee—the pestilence,—until he hath consumed thee from off the soil which thou art entering to possess.
Yahweh, will smite thee, with consumption and with fever, and with inflammation and with violent heat and with the sword, and with blight and with mildew,—and they shall pursue thee, until thou perish.
And thy heavens which are over thy head shall become bronze,—and the earth which is under thee iron.
Yahweh will cause the rain of thy land to be powder and dust,—out of the heavens, shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed.
Yahweh will give thee up to be routed before thine enemies, one way, shalt thou go out against them, and, seven ways, shalt thou flee before them,—and thou shalt become a terror unto all the kingdoms of the earth.
And thy dead body shall become food for every bird of the heavens, and for the beast of the earth,—with none to fright them away.
Yahweh, will smite thee, with the burning sores of Egypt and with the hemorrhoids, and with scab, and with itch,—of which thou canst not be healed.
Yahweh, will smite thee, with madness and with blindness,—and with terror of heart;
and thou shalt he groping about in noonday brightness, as the blind man gropeth in thick darkness, and thou shalt not make thy ways prosper,—but shalt be only oppressed and spoiled all the days with none to save.
A wife, shalt thou betroth, and, another man shall lie with her. A house, shalt thou build, and shalt not dwell therein,—A vineyard, shalt thou plant, and shalt not throw it open;
Thine ox slaughtered before thine eyes, and thou shalt not eat thereof, Thine ass stolen from before thee, and shall not be restored to thee,—Thy flock given to thine enemies, and thou shalt have none to save.
Thy sons and thy daughters given to another people, thine eyes looking on, and failing for them all the day, thine own hand being powerless.
The fruit of thy soil, and all thy toilsome produce, shall a people whom thou knowest not, eat up,—and thou shalt be only oppressed and crushed, all the days;
so that thou shalt be mad,—for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.
Yahweh, will smite thee, with a grievous boil, upon the knees and upon the legs, of which thou canst not be healed,—from the sole of thy foot even unto the crown of thy head.
Yahweh will bring thee and thy king whom thou wilt set up over thee, unto a nation which thou hast not known, thou nor thy fathers,—and thou shalt serve there other gods of wood and of stone.
Thus shalt thou become a horror, a byword, and a mockery, among all the peoples whither Yahweh thy God will drive thee.
Much seed, shalt thou take out into the field,—and little, shalt thou gather in, for the locust shall consume it.
Vineyards, shalt thou plant, and dress,—but wine, shalt thou not drink, neither shalt thou gather the grapes, for the worm shall eat them.
Olive trees, shalt thou have in all thy bounds,—but with oil, shalt thou not anoint thyself, for thine olives, shall drop off.
Sons and daughters, shalt thou beget, and they shall not be thine, for they shall go into captivity.
All thy trees, and the fruit of thy ground, shall the grasshopper, devour.
The sojourner who is in thy midst, shall mount up above thee higher and higher,—whereas, thou, shalt come down lower and lower:
he, shall lend to thee, but, thou, shalt not lend to him,—he, shall become head, and, thou, shalt become tail.
Moreover, all these curses, shall come in upon thee, and pursue thee and overtake thee, until thou be destroyed,—because thou didst not hearken unto the voice of Yahweh thy God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he hath commanded thee;
and they shall be upon thee, for a sign, and for a wonder, and upon thy seed, unto times age-abiding.
Because thou servedst not Yahweh thy God, with rejoicing, and with gladness of heart, for abundance of all things,
therefore shalt thou serve thine enemies, whom Yahweh will send against thee, with hunger and with thirst and with nakedness, and with want of all things,—and he, will put a yoke of iron upon thy neck, until he hath destroyed thee.
Yahweh will bring against thee a nation from afar, from the end of the earth, as darteth a bird of prey,—a nation whose tongue thou canst not understand;
a nation of fierce countenance,—who wilt not respect an elder nor to the young, show favour;
then shall he eat the young of thy cattle and the fruit of thy ground until thou art destroyed, who will not leave for thee corn, new wine or oil, the young of thy kine, or the ewes of thy flock,—until he hath caused thee to perish.
And he shall lay siege to thee in all thy gates, until thy high and fortified walls come down wherein thou wast trusting, in all thy land,—yea he will lay siege to thee in all thy gates, in all thy land which Yahweh thy God, hath given, unto thee.
And thou wilt eat the fruit of thy body, the flesh of thy sons and of thy daughters, whom Yahweh thy God hath given unto thee—in the siege and in the straitness wherewith thine enemy will straiten thee.
The man that is tender among you, and exceedingly delicate, his eye will be jealous of his brother and of the wife of his bosom, and of the remnant of his sons, whom be might leave behind;
so that he will not give to any one of them, of the flesh of his sons which he will eat, because he hath nothing at all left him,—in the siege and in the straitness wherewith thine enemy will straiten thee within all thy gates.
The tender and delicate woman among you who hath never adventured the sole of her foot to set it upon the ground, through delicateness and through tenderness, her eye shall be jealous of the husband of her bosom, and of her own son, and of her own daughter;
both as to her afterbirth that cometh forth from between her feet and as to her children which she shall bear, for she will eat them for want of all things secretly,—in the siege and in the straitness wherewith thine enemy will straiten thee within thine own gates.
If thou wilt not take heed to do all the words of this law, which are written in this scroll,—to revere this glorious and reverend name, Yahweh thy God,
then will Yahweh make thy plagues wonderful, and the plagues of thy seed,—plagues great and lasting, and diseases grievous and lasting;
and he will bring back on thee all the sickness of Egypt, because of which thou wast afraid,—and they shall cleave unto thee;
even every disease and, every plague, which are not written in this scroll of the law, will Yahweh bring up against thee, until thou art destroyed,
And ye shall be left men few in number, whereas ye had become as the stars of the heavens for multitude,—because thou hast not hearkened unto the voice of Yahweh thy God.
And it shall come to pass that as Yahweh rejoiced over you to do you good and to multiply you, so, will Yahweh rejoice over you, to cause you to perish and to destroy you,—and ye shall be torn away, from off the soil, whither thou art going in to possess it;
and Yahweh will scatter thee among all the peoples, from one end of the earth even unto the other end of the earth,—and thou wilt serve there other gods whom thou hast not known—thou nor thy fathers,—of wood and of stone.
And among those nations, shalt thou find no ease, neither shall there be a place of rest for the sole of thy foot,—but Yahweh will give unto thee there a trembling heart, and a failing of eyes and faintness of soul.
And thy life will be hung up for thee in front,—and thou wilt be in dread by night and by day, and wilt not trust in thy life.
In the morning, thou wilt say—Oh that it were evening! and in the evening, thou wilt say—Oh that it were morning! because of the dread of thy heart which thou wilt dread, and because of the sight of thine eyes which thou wilt see.
And Yahweh will take thee back again to Egypt in ships, by the way whereof I said unto thee, Thou shalt not again any more see it. And ye will offer yourselves there for sale unto thine enemies as servants and as handmaids with no one to buy.