And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When either man or woman shall make a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, to separate himself to Jehovah,
he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink. He shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink, neither shall he drink any juice of grapes, nor eat fresh grapes or dried.
All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing that is made of the grapevine, from the kernels even to the husk.
All the days of his vow of separation there shall no razor come upon his head. Until the days be fulfilled, in which he separates himself to Jehovah, he shall be holy. He shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow long.
He shall not come near to a dead body all the days that he separates himself to Jehovah.
He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die, because his separation to God is upon his head.
All the days of his separation he is holy to Jehovah.
And if any man dies very suddenly beside him, and he defiles the head of his separation, then he shall shave his head in the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day he shall shave it.
And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons to the priest, to the door of the tent of meeting.
And the priest shall offer one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and make atonement for him, because he sinned by reason of the dead, and shall hallow his head that same day.
And he shall separate to Jehovah the days of his separation, and shall bring a he-lamb a year old for a trespass offering. But the former days shall be void, because his separation was defiled.
And this is the law of the Nazirite when the days of his separation are fulfilled: He shall be brought to the door of the tent of meeting,
and he shall offer his oblation to Jehovah: one he-lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and one ewe-lamb a year old without blemish for a sin offering, and one ram without blemish for peace offerings,
and a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and their meal offering, and their drink offerings.
And the priest shall present them before Jehovah, and shall offer his sin offering, and his burnt offering.
And he shall offer the ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah, with the basket of unleavened bread. The priest shall also offer the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it.
And the Nazirite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the tent of meeting, and shall take the hair of the head of his separation, and put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of peace offerings.
And the priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them upon the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaven his separation,
and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before Jehovah. This is holy for the priest, together with the wave-breast and heave-thigh. And after that the Nazirite may drink wine.
This is the law of the Nazirite who vows, and of his oblation to Jehovah for his separation, besides that which he is able to get. According to his vow which he vows, so he must do after the law of his separation.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This way ye shall bless the sons of Israel: Ye shall say to them,
Jehovah bless thee, and keep thee.
Jehovah make his face to shine upon thee, and be gracious to thee.
Jehovah lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace.
So shall they put my name upon the sons of Israel, and I will bless them.