Masters, give to your servants what is just and equal, for you know that you have a Master in heaven.
Persevere in prayer, and be watchful in the same with thanksgiving;
praying at the same time also for us, that God may open for us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of the Christ, for which I am in bonds,
that I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are without, redeeming the time.
Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer every one.
All that relates to me, Tychicus, my beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow-servant in the Lord, will make known to you.
I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that he may know your condition, and comfort your hearts;
I have sent him with Onesimus, my faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known all things that are done here.
Aristarchus, my fellow-prisoner, salutes you, and so does Marcus the nephew of Barnabas, concerning whom you received commandments; if he come to you, receive him;
Jesus also, who is called Justus, salutes you: these are of the circumcision: and these only are my fellow-workers for the kingdom of God, who have been a comfort to me.
Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you; he always strives earnestly for you in his prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
For I testify for him, that he has a great zeal for you and those in Laodicea and those in Hierapolis.
Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, salute you.
Salute the brethren in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church that is in his house.
And when this letter has been read among you, cause that it be read in the church of the Laodiceans also; and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea;
and say to Archippus: Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.
The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen.