And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels: Go and pour out the seven cups of the wrath of God upon the earth.
And the first angel went, and poured out his cup on the land; and there came a hurtful and afflictive sore upon the men that had the mark of the beast, and that worshiped his image.
And the second angel poured out his cup on the sea; and it became blood, like that of a dead man: and every soul in the sea died.
And the third angel poured out his cup on the rivers and the fountains of waters; and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters, saying: Just art thou, who art and who wast, the Holy One, because thou hast thus judged.
For they have shed the blood of saints and of prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, and they are worthy.
And I heard a voice from the altar saying: Even so; Lord God Almighty, true and just are thy judgments.
And the fourth angel poured out his cup on the sun; and it was given to him to scorch men with fire.
And men were scorched with great heat; and they uttered impious words against the name of God who has power over these plagues; and they repented not, that they might give him glory.
And the fifth angel poured out his cup on the throne of the beast; and his kingdom was filled with darkness; and they gnawed their tongues because of pain;
and they spoke impiously against the God of heaven because of their pains, and because of their sores; and they repented not of their works.
And the sixth angel poured out his cup on the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.
And I saw three unclean spirits, like frogs, come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
For they are the spirits of demons that do signs, and they go forth to the kings of the whole world, to bring them together to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.
Behold, I come as a thief: blessed is he that watches, and keeps his garments, that he may not walk naked, and that men may not see his nakedness.
And they brought them together into a place that is called, in the Hebrew tongue, Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured out his cup into the air; and there came a great voice from the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying: It is done.
And there were lightnings and voices and thunders; and there was a great earthquake, such as has not been since men were on the earth,―so great an earthquake, and so mighty.
And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and Babylon the great was remembered before God, that he might give her the cup of the wine of his fiercest wrath.
And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
And great hail, every stone about the weight of a talent, fell from heaven upon men; and men spoke impiously against God, because of the plague of the hail: for the plague of it was very great.