And, when we were safely through, then, we knew that the island was called, Melita.
And, the natives, began to shew us no common philanthropy; for, kindling a fire, they received us all, because of the rain that had set in, and because of the cold.
But, when Paul had gathered a certain lot of firewood into a bundle, and laid it on the fire, a viper, by reason of the heat, coming forth, fastened on his hand.
And, when the natives saw the brute hanging out from his hand, they began to say, one to another—Doubtless, this man is, a murderer, whom, though brought safely through out of the sea, Justice, hath not suffered, to live.
He, however, shaking of the brute into the fire, suffered no harm;
whereas, they, were expecting, that he was about to become inflamed, or to fall down suddenly dead;—but, when they had been long expecting, and had observed, nothing unusual, happening unto him, they changed their minds, and began to say he was a god.
Now, in the neighbourhood of that place, were lands, belonging to the chief man of the island, by name Publius,—who, making us welcome, for three days, hospitably entertained us.
And it so happened that, the father of Publius, with feverish heats and dysentery distressed, was lying prostrate: unto whom Paul entering in and praying, laid his hands on him, and healed him.
And, when this happened, the rest also, even they in the island who were sick, were coming in and getting cured;
who also, with many honours, honoured us, and, when we were about to sail, put on board such things as we might need.
And, after three months, we sailed in a ship which had wintered in the island, [a ship] of Alexandria, whose ensign was The Twin Brothers;
and, touching at Syracuse, we tarried three days;
whence, going round, we reached Rhegium; and, after one day, a south wind springing up, on the second day, we came to Puteoli;
where, finding brethren, we were entreated to tarry, with them, seven days;—and, thus, towards Rome, we came.
And, when from thence the brethren heard the tidings concerning us, they came to meet us, as far as The Market of Appius and the Three Taverns—seeing whom, Paul thanked God, and took courage.
And, when we entered into Rome, Paul was suffered to abide by himself, with the soldier that guarded him.
And it came to pass, after three days, that he called together those who were the chief of the Jews; and, when they came together, he began to say unto them—I, brethren, though I had done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, as a prisoner, out of Jerusalem, was delivered into the hands of the Romans;
who, indeed, when they had examined me, were minded to set me at liberty, because there was, nothing worthy of death, in me.
But, as the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar,—not as though, against my nation, I had anything to bring by way of accusation.
For this cause, therefore, have I called for you, to see and to speak with you; for, on account of the hope of Israel, this chain, have I about me!
And, they, said unto him—We, have neither received letters concerning thee from the Jews, nor hath anyone of the brethren who hath arrived reported or spoken concerning thee, anything ill.
But we deem it well, that, from thee, we should hear what are thine opinions; for, indeed, concerning this sect, it is, known to us, that, everywhere, is it spoken against.
And, having arranged with him a day, there came unto him, to the lodging, a larger number; unto whom he proceeded to expound, bearing full witness as to the kingdom of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses, and from the prophets,—from morning till evening.
And, some, indeed, were persuaded by the things that were spoken, whereas, others, disbelieved;
and, not being, agreed, among themselves, they began to leave,—Paul having said one thing—Well, did, the Holy Spirit, speak through Isaiah the prophet, unto your fathers,
saying—Go thy way unto this people, and say—Ye shall, surely hear, and yet will in nowise understand. And, surely see, and yet will in nowise perceive;
For the heart of this people, hath become dense, and, with their ears, heavily, have they heard, and, their eyes, have they closed,—lest once they should see with their eyes, and, with their ears, should hear, and, with their hearts, should understand, and return,—when I would certainly heal them.
Be it, known unto you, therefore, that, unto the nations, hath been sent forth this salvation of God: they, will also hear.

And he abode two whole years in his own hired house, and made welcome all who were coming in unto him,—
proclaiming the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all freedom of speech, without hindrance.