And he began to speak to them in parables: A man planted a vineyard, and set a hedge about it, and dug a wine-vat, and built a tower; and let it out to husbandmen, and went abroad.
And at the season he sent to the husbandmen a servant, that he might receive from the husbandmen of the fruits of the vineyard.
And they took him, and beat him, and sent him away empty-handed.
And again he sent to them another servant; and him they wounded in the head, and treated shamefully.
And he sent another; and him they killed; and many others, beating some, and killing some.
Still he had one beloved son; he sent him last to them, saying, They will respect my son.
But those husbandmen said among themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.
And they took him and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
What will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vineyard to others.
And have ye not read this scripture: "The stone which the builders rejected, the same hath become the cornerstone;
from the Lord did this come, and it is marvelous in our eyes"?
And they sought to seize him, but feared the multitude; for they knew that he spoke the parable against them. And they left him, and went away.
And they send to him some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, to ensnare him in speech.
And they come and say to him, Teacher, we know that thou art true, and carest for no one; for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
Shall we give, or shall we not give? But he, seeing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why are ye trying me? Bring me a denary, that I may see it.
And they brought one. And he saith to them, Whose is this image and inscription? And they said to him, Caesar’s.
And Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s. And they marveled at him exceedingly.
Then come to him Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection; and they asked him, saying,
Teacher, Moses wrote to us, "If a man’s brother die, and leave a wife and no child, his brother shall take his wife, and raise up seed to his brother."
There were seven brothers; and the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.
And the second took her and died, leaving no seed; and the third likewise.
And the seven left no seed. Last of all, the woman also died.
In the resurrection, when they have risen, of which of them will she be wife? for the seven had her for a wife.
Jesus said to them, Do ye not err on this account, that ye know not the Scriptures, nor the power of God?
For when they have risen from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels in heaven.
And concerning the dead, that they are raised, have ye not read in the book of Moses, at the Bush, how God spoke to him, saying, "I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob"?
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. Ye err greatly.
And one of the scribes came up, having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which commandment is first of all?
Jesus answered, The first is, "Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord;
and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength."
The second is this: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." There is no other commandment greater than these.
And the scribe said to him, In truth, Teacher, thou hast well said, that He is one, and that there is no other but he;
and to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the strength, and to love one’s neighbor as one’s self, is more than all the whole burnt-offerings and the sacrifices.
And Jesus, perceiving that he answered wisely, said to him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And after this no one dared to question him.
And Jesus answered and said, while he was teaching in the temple, How is it that the scribes say, that the Christ is David’s son?
David himself said in the Holy Spirit, "The Lord said to my lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool."
David himself calleth him lord; and how can he be his son? And the great multitude heard him gladly.
And he said in his teaching, Beware of the scribes, who like to walk about in long robes, and love salutations in the markets,
and the chief seats in the synagogues, and the first places at feasts;
who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretence make long prayers. These will receive a far greater condemnation.
And he sat over against the treasury, and was beholding how the people cast money into the treasury. And many that were rich were casting in much.
And a certain poor widow came and threw in two mites, which make a farthing.
And he called to him his disciples, and said to them, Truly do I say to you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than all those who are casting into the treasury.
For they all threw in of their abundance; but she out of her penury threw in all that she had, her whole living.