The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, one of the priests who resided in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin,
to whom the word of Jehovah came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign.
It also came in the days of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, to the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, king of Judah, to the exile of Jerusalem in the fifth month.
Then the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
I knew you before I formed you in the belly; and before you came out of the womb, I consecrated you. I appointed you a prophet to the nations.
Then I said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! Behold, I do not know how to speak for I am a boy.
But Jehovah said to me, Do not say, I am a boy; for you shall go to all that I shall send you. And whatever I command you, you shall speak.
Do not be afraid of their faces, for I am with you to deliver you, says Jehovah.
Then Jehovah put out His hand and touched my mouth. And Jehovah said to me, Behold, I have put My words in your mouth.
Behold, I have today appointed you over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out, and to tear down, and to destroy, and to throw down, to build, and to plant.
And was the word of Jehovah to me, saying, Jeremiah, what do you see? And I said, I see an almond rod.
Then Jehovah said to me, You have seen well; for I will watch over My word to perform it.
And the word of Jehovah came to me the second time, saying, What do you see? And I said, I see a boiling pot; and its face is from the face of the north.
And Jehovah said to me, Out of the north evil will be set loose on all the inhabitants of the land.
For, behold, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north, declares Jehovah. And they shall come, and they shall each one set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, and all against its walls all around, and against the cities of Judah.
And I will pronounce My judgments against them regarding all their evil, those who have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods, and have worshiped the works of their hands.
And you must gird up your loins, and rise up and speak to them all that I command you. Do not be terrified before their faces, that I not prostrate you before them.
For, behold, today I have made you a fortified city, and an iron pillar, and bronze walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against her princes, against her priests, and to the people of the land.
And they shall fight against you; but they shall not overcome you. For I am with you to deliver you, declares Jehovah.