The word which came unto Jeremiah, from Yahweh, saying:—
Thus, speaketh Yahweh, God of Israel, saying,—Write thee all the words which I have spoken unto thee in a scroll;
For lo! days are coming, Declareth Yahweh, when I will turn the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, Saith Yahweh,—and will bring them back into the land which I gave to their fathers that they might possess it.
Now, these, are the words which Yahweh hath spoken against Israel and against Judah:
Yea, thus, saith Yahweh, A voice of trembling, have we heard, Dread and not welfare!
Ask, I pray you, and see, whether a male travaileth with child! Why have I seen Every man with his hands upon his loins like a woman in travail, and Every face turned into ghastliness?
Alas! for, great, is that day, so that none is like it,—Yea, a time of anguish it is for Jacob, But out of it, shall he be saved.
And it shall come to pass in that day, Declareth Yahweh of hosts, That I will break his yoke from off thy neck, And thy bonds, will I tear off,—And foreigners shall use him as a slave no more;
But they shall serve Yahweh their God,—and David their king, whom I will raise up unto them.
Thou therefore do not fear O my Servant Jacob Urgeth Yahweh, Neither be thou dismayed, O Israel, For behold me! saving thee from afar And thy seed out of the land of their captivity,—Then shall Jacob return, and rest and be quiet, And there shall be none to make him afraid;
For with thee, am, I, Declareth Yahweh To save thee,—Though I make an end of all the nations whither I have scattered thee, Yet will I not of thee, make an end, But will chastise thee in measure, not holding thee, guiltless!
For Thus, saith Yahweh—incurable is thine injury,—Grievous is thy wound:
There is none to plead thy cause for binding thee up,—Healing bandages, hast thou none:
All thy lovers, have forgotten thee, Thyself, do they not seek,—For With the wounding of an enemy, have I wounded thee With the correction of one who is cruel, Because of the abounding of thine iniquity, Because numerous have been thy sins.
Why shouldst thou make outcry over thine injury, Incurable is thy pain? Because of the abounding of thine iniquity, [Because] numerous have been thy sins Have I done these things unto thee.
Therefore, all who devour thee, shall be devoured, And, all thine adversaries—all of them, into captivity, shall depart,—So shall they who plundered thee, be plundered, And all who preyed upon thee, will I deliver up as a prey.
For I will put a bandage upon thee, And from thy wounds, will I heal thee Declareth Yahweh,—Because An outcast, they called thee, ‘Tis, Zion! who hath none to ask for her welfare,
Thus, saith Yahweh—Behold me! bringing back the captivity of the tents of Jacob, And on his habitations, will I have compassion,—So shall the city be built, upon her own mound, And the citadel, upon its own site, shall remain:
So shall there proceed from them thanksgiving, and The sound of them who make merry,—And I will multiply them, and they shall not become few, And will make them honourable, and they shall not be despised:
And, his sons, shall come to be as aforetime, And, his assembly, before me, shall continue,—And I will bring punishment on all his oppressors;
And, his illustrious one, shall spring, from himself, And his ruler, from his own midst, shall proceed, And I will bring him near and he shall approach unto me,—For who is there that hath pledged his own heart to approach unto me? Demandeth Yahweh:
So shall ye become my people; And, I, will become your God.
Lo! the tempest of Yahweh! Indignation, hath come forth, A tempest rolling itself upward,—Upon the head of the lawless ones, shall it hurl itself down!
The fierceness of the anger of Yahweh will not turn back, Until he hath executed nor Until he hath established The purposes of his heart,—In the afterpart of the days, shall ye understand it.