While they were speaking to the people, the priests, and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees came upon them,
being vexed because they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
And they laid hands on them, and put them in prison till the next day, for it was already evening.
But many of those who heard the word, believed: and the number of the men was about five thousand.
And it came to pass, on the next day, that their rulers and elders and scribes,
and Annas the chief priest, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and as many as were of the family of the chief priest, met together in Jerusalem.
And when they had made them stand in the midst, they asked: By what power, or by what name have you done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: Rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,
if we are this day examined with respect unto the good deed done to the infirm man, by what means he has been saved,
be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him does this man stand before you in health.
This is the stone that was rejected with contempt by you builders, which has become the head of the corner.
And there is salvation in no other; nor, indeed, is there another name under heaven, given among men, by which we must be saved.
Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and plain men, they were astonished; and they also recognized them, that they had been with Jesus;
and, seeing the man who had been cured standing with them, they had nothing to say in reply.
But, having commanded them to go aside out of the Sanhedrim, they consulted with one another,
saying: What shall we do with these men? For that an evident sign has been done by them, is manifest to all that dwell in Jerusalem, and we can not deny it.
But that it may spread no further among the people, let us severely threaten them, so that they speak no more to any man in this name.
And they called them in, and commanded them to speak no more at all, nor to teach, in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John answering them, said: Whether it is right in the sight of God to obey you rather than God, judge you.
For we can not but speak the things that we have seen and heard.
And when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing for which they could punish them, because of the people; for they all glorified God on account of that which had been done;
for the man on whom this sign of healing had been performed was more than forty years old.
And having been released, they went to their own, and told all that the chief priests and elders had said to them.
And when they heard it, they lifted up their voice with one consent to God, and said: Lord, thou art God, who didst make the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all things that are in them; who, by the mouth of David thy servant, didst say,
Why did the heathen rage, and the people devise vain things?
The kings of the land stood up, and the rulers met together against the Lord and against his anointed.
For, in truth, against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou didst anoint, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, did meet together,
to do whatever thy hand and thy counsel determined to be done.
And now, Lord, look upon their threatenings, and grant to thy servants that they may speak thy word with all boldness,
by stretching out thy hand to heal, that both signs and wonders may be done through the name of thy holy child Jesus.
And when they had prayed, the place in which they were assembled was shaken; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and spoke the word of God with boldness.
And the multitude of believers were of one heart and of one soul; and no one said that any part of his possessions was his own; but they had all things in common.
And with great power did the apostles bear testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was on them all.
Nor, indeed, was there any needy person among them; for as many as were owners of lands or houses, sold them, and brought the prices of what had been sold,
and laid them down at the feet of the apostles; and distribution was made to every one as he had need.
And Joses, who, by the apostles, was surnamed Barnabas, (which name, when translated, is, Son of consolation,) a Levite, by birth a Cyprian,
having land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the feet of the apostles.