And now listen, My servant Jacob, and Israel whom I have chosen.
So says Jehovah, who made you and formed you from the womb. He helps you. Do not fear, My servant Jacob; and you, Jeshurun whom I have chosen.
For I will pour water on a thirsty place, and floods on the dry ground. I will pour My Spirit on your seed, and My blessing on your offspring.
And they shall sprout as among grass, as willows by streams of water.
One shall say, I am Jehovah's; and another will call by the name of Jacob; and this one shall write with his hand, For Jehovah; and be named by the name of Israel.
So says Jehovah, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, Jehovah of Hosts: I am the First and I am the last; and there is no God except Me.
And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare this, and set it in order before Me, since I placed the people of old? And as to things to come, even which shall come, let them declare concerning them.
Do not dread, nor be afraid. Have I not declared and made you hear since then? So you are My witnesses: Is there a God besides Me? Yea, there is none. I have not known a Rock.
Those who form a carved image are all of them vanity. And their delights do not profit; and they are their own witnesses. They do not see, nor know, that they may be ashamed.
Who has formed a god, or poured out an image, to no profit?
Behold, all his companions shall be ashamed; and the craftsmen, they are from men. They shall assemble, all of them shall stand; they shall dread; they shall be shamed together.
He carves iron with a tool; he works in the coals and forms it with hammers, and works it with his powerful arm; then he is hungry, and has no strength; he drinks no water and is weary.
He fashions wood, and stretches a line; he marks it with a stylus; he shapes it with a carving tool, and he marks it with a compass. And he makes it according to the figure of a man, as the beauty of a man, to sit in the house.
He cuts down cedars and takes cypress and oak, and he makes the trees of the forest strong for him. He plants a tree, and rain makes it grow.
And it shall be for a man to burn; yea, he takes of them and is warmed; and he kindles it and bakes bread. Yea, he makes a god and worships; he makes a carved image and bows to it.
He burns half of it in the fire; he eats flesh on half of it; he roasts roast, and is satisfied. Then he warms himself and says, Ah, I am warm; I have seen the fire.
And he makes a god of the rest, his carved image; he bows to it and worships, and prays to it, and says, Deliver me, for you are my god.
They do not know, nor discern; for He has smeared their eyes from seeing, their hearts from understanding.
And not one turns back to his heart, nor has knowledge nor discernment to say, I have burned half of it in the fire; and I also have baked bread on its coals. I have roasted flesh and have eaten it; and I have made the rest of it into an idol. Shall I bow to a product of a tree?
Feeding on ashes, a deceived heart turns him aside, and he does not deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand?
Remember these, O Jacob, and Israel. For you are My servant; I have formed you; you are My servant, O Israel; you shall not forget Me.
I have blotted out your transgressions like a thick cloud; and your sins like a cloud. Return to Me, for I have redeemed you.
Sing, O heavens, for Jehovah has done it . Shout, O lower parts of the earth; burst forth into praise, O mountains. O forest and every tree in it, sing praise , because Jehovah has redeemed Jacob, and glorifies Himself in Israel.
So says Jehovah, your Redeemer and your Former from the womb; I am Jehovah who makes all things; stretching out the heavens; I alone, spreading out the earth. Who was with Me,
frustrating the signs of liars; yea, He makes diviners mad; turning wise ones backward, and making their knowledge foolish.
He confirms the word of His servant, and completes the counsel of His messengers. He says to Jerusalem, You will be filled; and to the cities of Judah, You shall be built; and, I will raise up its ruins.
He says to the deep, Be a waste! And I will dry up your rivers!
He says to Cyrus, You are My shepherd; and he shall fulfill all My will, even to say to Jerusalem, You shall be built; and to the temple, You shall be set up.