Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, the gate of the inner court which looketh toward the east shall be shut, the six days of work,—but on the sabbath-day, shall it be opened, and on the day of the new moon, shall it be opened.
The prince therefore shall enter by way of the porch of the gate without and shall stand by the post of the gate, and the priests shall offer his ascending-sacrifice and his peace offerings, and he shall bow down upon the threshold of the gate and then go forth, but the gate shall not be shut until the evening;
and the people of the land, shall bow down, at the entrance of that gate on the sabbaths and at the new moons,—before Yahweh.
And, the ascending-sacrifice which the prince shall bring near unto Yahweh, [shall be] on the sabbath day, six he-lambs without defect and a ram without defect;
and the meal-offering shall be an ephah to a ram, and to the he-lambs, the meal-offering shall be as one is able to give,— and of, a hin to an ephah.
But on the day of the new moon, a young bullock without defect, —and six he-lambs and a ram without defect, shall they be;
and an ephah to a bullock, and an ephah to a ram, shall he offer as a meal-offering, and for the he-lambs, just as his hand shall attain unto,—and of oil a hin to an ephah.
And when the prince shall enter, by way of the porch of the gate, shall he go in, and by way thereof, shall he go out.
But when the people of the land shall enter before Yahweh on the appointed feasts, he that entereth by way of the north gate to bow down shall go forth by way of the south gate, and he that entereth by way of the south gate shall go forth by way of the north gate,—he shall not return by way of the gate by which he entered, but straight-forward, shall he go forth.
But as for the prince in their midst when they enter, shall he enter, and when they go forth, shall he go forth,
And in the festivals and in the appointed feasts, the meal-offering! shall be an ephah to a bullock, and an ephah to a ram, but to the he-lambs, as one is able to give,—and of oil a hin to an ephah.
And, when the prince would offer as a freewill offering an ascending-sacrifice or peace-offerings as a free-will offering to Yahweh, then shall be opened to him the gate that looketh to the east, and he shall offer his ascending-sacrifice and his peace-offerings just as he would offer on the sabbath day,- and, when he shall go forth, then shall one shut the gate after he hath gone forth.
And, a he-lamb of the first year without defect, shalt thou offer as an ascending-sacrifice daily unto Yahweh,— morning by morning shalt thou offer it.
And, a meal-offering, shalt thou offer thereupon morning by morning, of the sixth of an ephah and, of oil, the third part of an hin to moisten the fine meal,—a meal-offering to Yahweh, age-abiding statutes continually.
Thus shall they offer the he-lamb and the meal-offering and the oil morning by morning,—a continual ascending-sacrifice.
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, When the prince would bestow a gift upon any one of his sons, his own inheritance, shall it be, for his sons, shall it remain,— their possession, shall it be by way of inheritance.
But when he would bestow a gift out of his inheritance on any one of his servants, it shall remain his unto the year of liberation, then shall it return to the prince,—surely it is the inheritance of his sons, theirs, shall it remain.
So then the prince shall not take of the inheritance of the people to oppress them out of their possession, out of his own possession, shall he give an inheritance to his sons,—to the end that my people be not scattered, any one out of his possession.
Then he brought me in through the entrance which was by the side of the gate, into the chambers of the holy place for the priests, those facing the north,—and lo! there a place, in the hinder parts westwards.
Then said he unto me,— This, is the place where the priests, shall boil, the guilt-bearer and the sin-bearer,—where they shall bake the meal-offering, that one may not carry them forth into the outer court to hallow the people,
So he caused me to go out into the outer court, and then made me pass through into the four corners of the court,—and lo! a court in each corner of the court:
in the four corners of the court, were courts covered over, forty long and thirty broad: of one measure, were those four.
And there was an enclosure round about in them round about to those four,—and boiling places had been made under the enclosures round about.
And he said unto me,— these, are the places of them who boil where they who wait upon the house shall boil the sacrifice of the people.