Stand firm therefore in the liberty in which Christ freed us, and be not entangled again in a yoke of bondage.
Behold, I Paul say to you, that if ye are circumcised, Christ will benefit you nothing.
And I solemnly declare again to every man who is circumcised, that he is obligated to do the whole law.
Ye were discharged from the Christ, ye who are made righteous by law. Ye have fallen from grace.
For we through Spirit, from faith, wait for a hope of righteousness.
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision avails anything nor uncircumcision, but faith working through love.
Ye were running well. Who hindered you, not to obey the truth?
This persuasion is not from him who calls you.
A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
I have confidence toward you in the Lord, that ye will think no other thing. But the man who troubles you will bear the verdict, whoever he may be.
But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the stumbling-block of the cross has been abolished.
O that those who trouble you would even cut it all off.
For ye, brothers, were called to liberty, only not liberty for an opportunity to the flesh, but be servants to each other through love.
For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this: Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself.
But if ye bite and devour each other, watch out that ye be not consumed by each other.
But I say, walk in Spirit and ye will, no, not fulfill a lust of flesh.
For the flesh desires against the Spirit, and the Spirit is against the flesh. For these are hostile to each other, so that whatever these things are ye may want, ye may not do.
But if ye are led by Spirit ye are not under law.
Now the works of the flesh are apparent, which are, adultery, fornication, uncleanness, licentiousness,
idolatry, sorcery, hatreds, strifes, jealousies, wraths, selfish ambitions, dissensions, factions,
envyings, murders, intoxications, revelings, and things like these, of which I forewarn you, as I also did forewarn, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
meekness, self-control. Against such things there is no law.
And those of the Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and the lusts.
If we live in Spirit, we should also march in Spirit.
Let us not become conceited, provoking each other, envying each other.