Do not boast in the day of tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring forth.
Let another praise you, and not your own mouth; let it be a stranger, and not your own lips.
A stone is heavy, and sand a burden, but a fool's anger is heavier than both.
Fury is fierce, and anger overflows, but who can stand before jealousy?
Better is revealed reproof than secret love.
Faithful are the wounds of a lover, and the kisses of a hated one are plentiful.
One who is full tramples a honeycomb, but to a hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.
A man wandering from his place is like a bird that wanders from the nest.
Ointment and perfume give joy to the heart, and one's friend is sweet from the counsel of the soul.
Do not forsake your friend, nor your father's friend, and do not go into your brother's house in the day of your calamity, for a near neighbor is better than a brother far away.
My son, become wise and give joy to my heart, so that I may return a word to him that taunts me.
A sensible man sees the evil and hides himself; the simple go on and are punished.
Take the garment of him who is surety for a stranger, and hold him in pledge who is surety for a strange woman.
He who rises early in the morning and blesses his friend with a loud voice, it is counted as cursing to him.
Drops that never cease on a rainy day, and a contentious woman are alike;
he who hides her hides the wind, and his right hand encounters slippery oil.
Iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens his friend's face.
The keeper of the fig tree eats its fruit, so he keeping his master is honored.
As face reflects face in the water, so the heart of man reflects a man.
Sheol and destruction are never satisfied, so the eyes of man are never satisfied.
The refining pot tries silver, and the furnace tries gold, but a man is tried by the mouth of his praise.
If you pound a fool in the mortar with a pestle amidst grain, his foolishness will not turn away from him.
Know well the face of your flock; set your heart on your herds,
for wealth is not forever, nor the crown from generation to generation.
When the hay is removed, and the tender grass is seen, and the mountain plants are taken up,
The lambs will be for your clothing, and the he goats the price for a field,
and there will be goat's milk enough for your food, for the food of your household, and for the life of your maidens.