Then came the word of Yahweh unto me, saying:
Son of man Set thy face against Jerusalem, And drop thy word against the holy places And prophesy against the soil of Israel.
Thou shalt say then to the soil of Israel Thus saith Yahweh, Behold me against thee, Therefore will I bring forth my sword out of its sheath,—and will cut off from thee the righteous and the lawless.
Because I have cut off from thee the righteous and the lawless, Therefore shall my sword go forth out of its sheath against all flesh from south to north:
So shall all flesh know that, I, Yahweh have brought forth my sword out of its sheath,— it shall not return any more.
Thou, therefore O son of man sigh,— In the sharp pain of thy loins and in bitterness, shalt thou sigh before their eyes.
And it shall come to pass when they shall say unto thee, Wherefore art thou sighing? that thou shalt say, For the report because it cometh, When every heart shall melt. And all hands be unnerved And every spirit shall become faint. And all knees shall be weak as water, Lo! it cometh and shall be brought to pass, Saith My Lord, Yahweh.
And the word of Yahweh came unto me. saying:
Son of man, Prophesy and thou shalt say, Thus saith My Lord,— Say, A sword! a sword! Sharpened moreover also furbished:
To make a slaughter, is it sharpened, That it may flash as lightning, is it furbished. Or shall we flourish the royal rod of my son which despiseth every tree?
It hath. however been given to be furbished that it may be grasped by the hand:The same is a sword sharpened. Yea the same, is furbished, Ready to be given into the hand of the slayer.
Make an outcry and howl son of man, For the same hath come against my people, the same is against all the princes of Israel,- Who are thrown to the sword with my people, Therefore smite thou upon thy thigh.
For trial hath been made, What then, even though the royal rod despiseth, shall it not be? Demandeth My Lord. Yahweh.
Thou, therefore, son of man, Prophesy, and smite thy hands together, And let the sword smite twice thrice the sword of the slain! the same is the great sword of the slain, that which hemmeth them in.
That the heart may melt And the overthrow be multiplied at all their gates, I have recompensed a slaying by the sword: Surely it hath been made ready to flash like lightning, keen for slaughter.
One firm stroke to the right. Turn to the left,- Whithersoever thine edge is directed,
Yea even I myself, will smite my hands together, And will cause mine indignation to find rest,— I Yahweh, have spoken.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto me saying:
Thou, therefore son of man. Appoint thee two ways For the sword of the king of Babylon to enter, Out of one land shall those two ways come,— And a hand, engrave thou, At the head of the way to the city, engrave it.;
A way, shalt thou appoint, for the sword to enter. Even to Rabbah of the sons of Ammon,— And to Judah against Jerusalem, the defenced,
For the king of Babylon, hath come to a stand, At the parting of the way At the head of the two ways To divine a divination:He hath shaken with arrows He hath asked of the household gods, He hath inspected the liver.
On his right hand, hath come the divination—Jerusalem! To plant battering-rams To open a hole by breach To lift up the voice with a war-shout,— To plant battering-rams against the gates, To cast up an earth-work To build a siege-wall.
Though it will become to them a veritably false divination in their eyes, even when bound by oaths to them Yet, he, calling to mind iniquity, [will determine] that it shall be captured.
Therefore Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, Because ye have brought to mind your iniquity, by revealing your transgressions causing your sins to appear in all your doings,- Because ye have brought yourselves to mind By force shall ye be captured.
Thou therefore, O profane, lawless one, prince of Israel,- Whose day hath come, in a time of final iniquity:
Thus, saith My Lord. Yahweh, Remove the turban, And lift off the crown,— This not that, The abased, exalt, And the exalted, abase.
An overthrow overthrow overthrow, will I make it,— Even this, hath not befallen until the coming of One to whom belongeth the right Then will I bestow it.
Thou, therefore, son of man Prophesy and say, thus, saith My Lord. Yahweh, As to the sons of Ammon and as to their reproach Yea thou shalt say. A sword! a sword! Drawn for slaughter, Furbished, that when it beginneth, it may flash like lightning;
Since they see for thee, false visions, Since they divine for thee lies, To stretch thee upon the necks of them who are the most profaned of lawless ones, Whose day hath come, in a time of final iniquity,
Put it back into its sheath! In the place where thou wast created In the land of thy nativity, will I judge thee
Then will I pour out upon thee mine indignation, With the fire of mine outburst, will I blow upon thee; and will deliver thee up into the hand of brutish men, skilled to destroy.
For the fire, shalt thou serve as fuel, Thy blood shall be in the midst of the land,- Thou shalt not be remembered, For I, Yahweh, have spoken.