Behold, what manner of love, the Father hath bestowed upon us—that, children of God, we should be called,—and such we are! Therefore, the world understandeth us not, because it understood not him.
Beloved! now, are we, children of God; and, not yet, hath it been made manifest, what we shall be,—We know that, if it should be made manifest, like unto him, shall we be, because we shall see him, just as he is.
And, whosoever hath this hope on him, is purifying himself, just as, He, is pure.
Whosoever is committing sin, lawlessness also, is committing, and, sin, is, lawlessness;
And ye know, that, He, was made manifest—in order that, our sins, he should take away, and, sin, in him, is there none.
Whosoever, in him, doth abide, is not sinning: whosoever is sinning, hath not seen him, and doth not understand him.
Dear children! Let, no one, lead you astray! He that is doing righteousness, is, righteous, just as, He, is righteous:
He that is committing sin, is, of the adversary, because, from the beginning, the adversary is sinning. To this end, was the Son of God made manifest, in order that he might undo the works of the adversary.
Whosoever hath been born of God, is not committing, sin, because, a seed of him, within him, abideth; and he cannot be committing sin, because, of God, hath he been born.
Herein, are, manifest, the children of God, and the children of the adversary: Whoever is not doing righteousness, is not of God, nor yet he that is not loving his brother.
Because, this, is the message which ye have heard from the beginning—that we should be loving one another,—
Not just as, Cain, was, of the wicked one, and slew his brother! And, for what cause, slew he him? Because, his works, were, wicked, whereas, those of his brother, were, righteous.
Be not marveling, brethren, if, the world, is hating you:
We, know, that we have passed over out of death into life, because we love the brethren: he that loveth not, abideth in death.
Whosoever is hating his brother, is, a murderer; and ye know that, no murderer, hath life age-during, within him abiding.
Hereby, have we come to understand love: in that, He, for us, his life laid down; and, we, ought, for the brethren, our lives to lay down.
But, whoso hath this world’s goods, and beholdeth his brother having, need, and shutteth up his tender affections from him, how, is, the love of God, abiding in him?
Dear children! Let us not be loving in word, nor yet with the tongue, but in deed and truth.
Hereby, shall we get to know, that, of the truth, we are, and, before him, shall persuade our heart;
Because, if our own heart condemn us, greater, is God, than our heart, and perceiveth all things.
Beloved! if our heart be not condemning us, boldness, have we, towards God;
And, whatsoever we are asking, we are receiving from him, because, his commandments, are we keeping, and, the things that are pleasing before him, are we doing.
And, this, is his commandment,—that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and be loving one another—just as he gave a commandment unto us.
And, he that keepeth his commandments, in him, abideth, and, he, in him. And, hereby, perceive we, that he abideth in us, by reason of the Spirit which, unto us, he hath given.