And Tobit made an end of giving thanks.
And he was eight and fifty years old when he lost his sight; and after eight years he received it again: and he gave alms, and he feared the Lord God more and more, and gave thanks to him.

Now he grew very old; and he called his son, and the six sons of his son, and said to him,
My child, take your sons: behold, I am grown old, and am ready to depart out of this life.
Go into Media, my child, for I surely believe all the things which Jonah the prophet spoke of Nineveh, that it shall be overthrown, but in Media there shall rather be peace for a season; and that our brethren shall be scattered in the earth from the good land; and Jerusalem shall be desolate, and the house of God in it shall be burned up, and shall be desolate for a time;
and God shall again have mercy on them, and bring them back into the land, and they shall build the house, but not like to the former house,  until the times of that age be fulfilled; and afterward they shall return from the places of their captivity, and build up Jerusalem with honor, and the house of God shall be built in it for ever with a glorious building, even as the prophets spoke concerning it.
And all the nations shall turn to fear the Lord God truly, and shall bury their idols.
And all the nations shall bless the Lord, and his people shall give thanks to God, and the Lord shall exalt his people; and all they that love the Lord God in truth and righteousness shall rejoice, showing mercy to our brethren.
And now, my child, depart from Nineveh, because those things which the prophet Jonah spoke shall surely come to pass.
But keep you the law and the ordinances, and show yourself merciful and righteous, that it may be well with you.
And bury me decently, and your mother with me; and dwell you⌃ no longer at Nineveh. See, my child, what Aman did to Achiacharus that nourished him, how out of light he brought him into darkness, and all the recompense that he made him: and Achiacharus was saved, but the other had his recompense, and he went down into darkness. Manasses gave alms, and escaped the snare of death which he set for him: but Aman fell into the snare, and perished.
And now, my children, consider what alms does, and how righteousness does deliver.
And while he was saying these things, he gave up the ghost in the bed; but he was a hundred and eight and fifty years old; and he buried him magnificently.
And when Anna died, he buried her with his father. But Tobias departed with his wife and his sons to Ecbatana to Raguel his father in law,
and he grew old in honor, and he buried his father and mother in law magnificently, and he inherited their substance, and his father Tobit’s.
And he died at Ecbatana of Media, being a hundred and seven and twenty years old.
And before he died he heard of the destruction of Nineveh, which Nebuchadnezzar and Ahasuerus took captive; and before his death he rejoiced over Nineveh.
