Hear me your father, O my children,
And do thereafter, that you⌃ may be saved.

For the Lord has given the father glory as touching the children,
And has confirmed the judgement of the mother as touching the sons.

He that honors his father shall make atonement for sins:

And he that gives glory to his mother is as one that lays up treasure.

Whoso honors his father shall have joy of his children;
And in the day of his prayer he shall be heard.

He that gives glory to his father shall have length of days;
And he that hearkens to the Lord shall bring rest to his mother,

And will do service under his parents, as to masters.

In deed and word honor your father,
That a blessing may come upon you from him.

For the blessing of the father establishes the houses of children;
But the curse of the mother roots out the foundations.

Glorify not yourself in the dishonor of your father;
For your father’s dishonor is no glory to you.

For the glory of a man is from the honor of his father;
And a mother in dishonor is a reproach to her children.

My son, help your father in his old age;
And grieve him not as long as he lives.

And if he fails in understanding, have patience with him;
And dishonor him not while you are  in your full strength.

For the relieving of your father shall not be forgotten:
And instead of sins it shall be added to build you up.

In the day of your affliction it shall remember you;
As fair weather upon ice,
So shall your sins also melt away.

He that forsakes his father is as a blasphemer;
And he that provoketh his mother is cursed of the Lord.

My son, go on with your business in meekness;
So shall you be beloved of an acceptable man.

The greater you are, humble yourself the more,
And you shall find favor before the Lord.


For great is the potency of the Lord,
And he is glorified of them that are lowly.

Seek not things that are too hard for you,
And search not out things that are above your strength.

The things that have been commanded you, think thereupon;
For you have no need of the things that are secret.

Be not over busy in your superfluous works:
For more things are showed to you than men can understand.

For the conceit of many has led them astray;
And evil surmising has caused their judgement to slip.


A stubborn heart shall fare ill at the last;
And he that loves danger shall perish therein.

A stubborn heart shall be laden with troubles;
And the sinner shall heap sin upon  sin.

The calamity of the proud is no healing;
For a plant of wickedness has taken root in him.

The heart of the prudent will understand a parable;
And the ear of a listener is the desire of a wise man.

Water will quench a flaming fire;
And almsgiving will make atonement for sins.

He that requites good turns is mindful of that which comes afterward;
And in the time of his falling he shall find a support.
