And after being saved, then they learned that the island was called Malta.
And the foreigners presented uncommon kindness to us, for, having kindled a fire, they received us all because of the present rain, and because of the cold.
And Paul having gathered a quantity of sticks, and having placed them on the fire, a viper having come out from the heat, it fastened on his hand.
And when the foreigners saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to each other, Certainly this man is a murderer, whom, though saved from the sea, Justice did not allow to live.
Indeed therefore having shaken off the creature into the fire, he experienced nothing harmful.
But they expected he was going to swell up, or suddenly fall down dead, but when they were long expecting, and seeing nothing amiss happening to him, thinking differently, they declared him to be a god.
Now among the things around that place were fields of the chief of the island, named Publius, who, having received us kindly, lodged us three days.
And it came about for the father of Publius to be laid down, gripped by fever and dysentery, to whom Paul, having entered in, and having prayed, having laid his hands on him, healed him.
Therefore when this happened, the others also who had infirmities on the island came and were healed,
who also honored us with many honorariums. And while putting out to sea, they furnished the things for our necessities.
And after three months we set out in a ship that wintered at the island, an Alexandrian with The Twin Brothers emblem.
And after being brought down to Syracuse, we remained there three days,
from where having made a circuit, we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day, wind from the south having developed, we came a second day to Puteoli,
where, having found brothers, we were invited to stay with them seven days. And so we went toward Rome.
And from there the brothers, who heard these things about us, came for a meeting with us as far as Appius Forum and The Three Taverns, whom, when Paul saw, having expressed thanks to God, he took courage.
And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the commandant, but Paul was allowed to dwell by himself with the soldier who guarded him.
And it came to pass after three days, for Paul to call together those who were the principle men of the Jews. And when they came together, he said to them, Men, brothers, I, having done nothing against the people, or the paternal customs, I was delivered a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans,
who, after examining me, wanted to release me, because there was not one cause of death in me.
But when the Jews spoke against it, I was compelled to appeal Caesar, not as having anything to accuse my nation.
Because of this reason therefore I summoned you to see and to speak with me, for because of the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain.
And they said to him, We neither received letters from Judea about thee, nor did any of the brothers who came report or speak anything bad about thee.
But we think it worthy to hear from thee what thou think. For indeed about this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against.
And having appointed a day for him, more came to him into his lodging, to whom he expounded, solemnly testifying the kingdom of God, and persuading them of the things about Jesus, both from the law of Moses and the prophets, from morning until evening.
And some were convinced by the things that were spoken, and some disbelieved.
And being discord among each other, they departed after Paul spoke one thing, saying, Well spoke the Holy Spirit through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers,
saying, Go thou to this people, and say, Hearing ye will hear, and will, no, not understand, and seeing ye will see, and will, no, not perceive.
For this people's heart was made fat, and they hear heavily with the ears. And they shut their eyes, lest they may perceive with the eyes, and hear with the ears, and understand with the heart, and should turn, and I would heal them.
Be it known to you therefore, that the salvation of God was sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear.
And when he said these things, the Jews departed, having much disputing among themselves.
And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired lodging. And he received all who came in to him,
preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, without hindrance.