My little children, I write these things to you so that you do not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
And He is the propitiation relating to our sins, and not relating to ours only, but also relating to all the world.
And by this we know that we have known Him, if we keep His commands.
The one saying, I have known Him, and not keeping His commands is a liar, and the truth is not in that one.
But whoever keeps His word, truly in this one the love of God has been perfected. By this we know that we are in Him.
The one saying to rest in Him ought so to walk himself as that One walked.
Brothers, I do not write a new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you heard from the beginning.
Again I write a new commandment to you which is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true Light already shines.
The one saying to be in the light, and hating his brother, is in the darkness until now.
The one loving his brother rests in the light, and no offense is in him.
But the one hating his brother is in the darkness, and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness blinded his eyes.
Little children, I write to you because you have been forgiven your sins through His name.
Fathers, I write to you because you have known Him from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you overcome the evil one. I write to you, young ones, because you have known the Father.
Fathers, I have written to you because you have known Him from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him,
because all that which is in the world: the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.
And the world is passing away, and its lust. But the one doing the will of God abides forever.
Young ones, it is a last hour, and as you heard that the antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have risen up, from which you know that it is a last hour.
They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they were of us, they would have remained with us; but they left so that it might be revealed that they all are not of us.
And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you know all things.
I did not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because every lie is not of the truth.
Who is the liar, except the one denying, saying that Jesus is not the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one denying the Father and the Son.
Everyone denying the Son does not have the Father. The one confessing the Son also has the Father.
Then what you heard from the beginning, let it abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, you will abide both in the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise which He promised us: everlasting life.
I wrote these things to you concerning the ones leading you astray.
And the anointing which you received from Him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone teach you. But as His anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true, and is not a lie, and as He taught you, abide in Him.
And now, little children, abide in Him, that when He is revealed we may have confidence, and not be shamed from Him in His coming.
If you know that He is righteous, know that everyone doing righteousness has been born of Him.