If, then, you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where the Christ sits at the right hand of God;
mind the things that are above, not the things that are on the earth:
for you are dead, and your life is hid with the Christ in God.
When the Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall you also appear with him in glory.
Put to death, therefore, your members that are on the earth, lewdness, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry;
on account of these things the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience,
in which things you also formerly walked when you lived in them.
But now do you also put away all these―anger, wrath, malice, reviling, obscene language from your mouth.
Lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his deeds,
and have put on the new man, which is renewed for knowledge, according to the image of him that created him;
in which new creation there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all and in all.
Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, a merciful disposition, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering:
bearing with one another, and forgiving one another, if any one have a complaint against any; even as Christ forgave you, so also do you:
and over all these put on love, which is the bond of perfectness.
And let the peace of God, to which you are called in one body, rule in your hearts, and be thankful.
Let the word of the Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, by teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with gratitude in your hearts to the Lord.
And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.
Wives, be subject to your husbands, as it is becoming in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.
Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well-pleasing to the Lord.
Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be disheartened.
Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service, as pleasing men, but with simplicity of heart, fearing God.
And whatever you do, do from the soul, as to the Lord, and not to men;
knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance: for you serve the Lord Christ.
But he that does wrong shall receive for the wrong which he has done; and there is no respect of persons.