Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Yahushua the Messiah, to all the saints in the Messiah Yahushua which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
Favour be unto you, and peace, from יהוה our Father, and from the Master Yahushua the Messiah.
I thank my Elohim upon every remembrance of you,
Always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy,
For your fellowship in the glad tidings from the first day until now;
Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Yahushua the Messiah:
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the glad tidings, ye all are partakers of my favour.
For יהוה is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Yahushua the Messiah.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
That ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day of the Messiah;
Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Yahushua the Messiah, unto the glory and praise of יהוה.
But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the glad tidings;
So that my bonds in the Messiah are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
And many of the brethren in the Master, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Some indeed preach the Messiah even of envy and strife; and some also of good will:
The one preach the Messiah of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds:
But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the glad tidings.
What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, the Messiah is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Yahushua the Messiah,
According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also the Messiah shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
For to me to live is the Messiah, and to die is gain.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yet what I shall choose I wot not.
For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with the Messiah; which is far better:
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;
That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Yahushua the Messiah for me by my coming to you again.
Only let your conversation be as it becometh the evangel of the Messiah: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the glad tidings;
And in nothing terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of Elohim.
For unto you it is given in the behalf of the Messiah, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;
Having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.