And seeing the multitudes, He went up into a mountain. And when He had sat down, His disciples came to Him.
And He opened His mouth and taught them, saying,
Blessed are the poor in spirit! For theirs is the kingdom of Heaven.
Blessed are they that mourn! For they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek! For they shall inherit the earth.
Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteousness! For they shall be filled.
Blessed are the merciful! For they shall obtain mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart! For they shall see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers! For they shall be called the sons of God.
Blessed are they who have been persecuted for righteousness sake! For theirs is the kingdom of Heaven.
Blessed are you when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all kinds of evil against you falsely, for My sake.
Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for your reward in Heaven is great. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt loses its savor, with what shall it be salted? It is no longer good for anything, but to be thrown out and to be trodden underfoot by men.
You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden.
Nor do men light a lamp and put it under the grain-measure, but on a lampstand. And it gives light to all who are in the house.
Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in Heaven.
Do not think that I have come to destroy the Law or the Prophets. I have not come to destroy but to fulfill.
For truly I say to you, Till the heaven and the earth pass away, not one jot or one tittle shall in any way pass from the law until all is fulfilled.
Therefore whoever shall break one of these commandments, the least, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of Heaven. But whoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of Heaven.
For I say to you that unless your righteousness shall exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall in no case enter into the kingdom of Heaven.
You have heard that it was said to the ancients, "You shall not kill" --and, "Whoever shall kill shall be liable to the judgment."
But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be liable to the judgment. And whoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be liable to the sanhedrin; but whoever shall say, Fool! shall be liable to be thrown into the fire of hell.
Therefore if you offer your gift on the altar, and there remember that your brother has anything against you,
leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
Agree with your adversary quickly, while you are in the way with him; that the opponent not deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be thrown into prison.
Truly I say to you, You shall by no means come out from there until you have paid the last kodrantes.
You have heard that it was said to the ancients, "You shall not commit adultery."
But I say to you that whoever looks on a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
And if your right eye offends you, pluck it out and throw it from you. For it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be thrown into hell.
And if your right hand offends you, cut it off and throw it from you. For it is profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not that your whole body should be thrown into hell.
It was also said, Whoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a bill of divorce.
But I say to you that whoever shall put away his wife, except for the cause of fornication, causes her to commit adultery. And whoever shall marry her who is put away commits adultery.
Again, you have heard that it has been said to the ancients, "You shall not swear falsely, but you shall perform your oaths to the Lord."
But I say to you, Do not swear at all! Not by Heaven, because it is God's throne;
not by the earth, for it is the footstool of His feet; not by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King;
nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black.
But let your word be, Yes, yes; No, no. For whatever is more than these comes from evil.
You have heard that it was said, "An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth."
But I say to you, Do not resist evil. But whoever shall strike you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also.
And to him desiring to sue you, and to take away your tunic, let him have your coat also.
And whoever shall compel you to go a mile, go with him two.
Give to him who asks of you, and you shall not turn away from him who would borrow from you.
You have heard that it was said, "You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy."
But I say to you, Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who despitefully use you and persecute you,
so that you may become sons of your Father in Heaven. For He makes His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax-collectors do the same?
And if you greet your brothers only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the tax-collectors do so?
Therefore be perfect, even as your Father in Heaven is perfect.