Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,
That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many.
And I said to them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun shall be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the doors, and bar them : and appoint soldiers of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be opposite his house.
Now the city was large and great: but the people in it were few, and the houses were not built.
And my God put into my heart to gather the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found a family record of the genealogy of them who came up at the first, and found written in it,
These are the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one to his city;
Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was this ;
The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred and seventy and two.
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy and two.
The children of Arah, six hundred and fifty and two.
The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen.
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty and four.
The children of Zattu, eight hundred and forty and five.
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.
The children of Binnui, six hundred and forty and eight.
The children of Bebai, six hundred and twenty and eight.
The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred and twenty and two.
The children of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty and seven.
The children of Bigvai, two thousand and sixty and seven.
The children of Adin, six hundred and fifty and five.
The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.
The children of Hashum, three hundred and twenty and eight.
The children of Bezai, three hundred and twenty and four.
The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve.
The children of Gibeon, ninety and five.
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred and eighty and eight.
The men of Anathoth, an hundred and twenty and eight.
The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two.
The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty and three.
The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty and one.
The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two.
The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred and twenty and three.
The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two.
The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty and four.
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
The children of Jericho, three hundred and forty and five.
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty and one.
The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy and three.
The children of Immer, a thousand and fifty and two.
The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred and forty and seven.
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the children of Hodevah, seventy and four.
The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred and forty and eight.
The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, an hundred and thirty and eight.
The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha, the children of Tabbaoth,
The children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon,
The children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai,
The children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar,
The children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda,
The children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Phaseah,
The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephishesim,
The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,
The children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,
The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Tamah,
The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida,
The children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,
The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon.
All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were three hundred and ninety and two.
And these were they who went up also from Telmelah, Telharesha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not show their father’s house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel.
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred and forty and two.
And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai, who took one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite for a wife, and was called after their name.
These sought their family record among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood.
And the Tirshatha said to them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there should stand up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three hundred and sixty,
Besides their male and female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred and thirty and seven: and they had two hundred and forty and five men and women singers.
Their horses, seven hundred and thirty and six: their mules, two hundred and forty and five:
Their camels, four hundred and thirty and five: six thousand seven hundred and twenty donkeys.
And some of the heads of the fathers’ houses gave to the work. The Tirshatha gave to the treasury a thousand drams of gold, fifty basins, five hundred and thirty priests’ garments.
And some of the heads of the fathers’ houses gave to the treasury of the work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pounds of silver.
And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and sixty and seven priests’ garments.
So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children of Israel were in their cities.