NOW there was a sick man, Lazarus, of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
(It was the Mary who had anointed the Lord with the balm, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.)
The sisters therefore sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
When Jesus heard it, he said, This sickness is not for death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified thereby.
Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
Then, though he heard he was ill, yet notwithstanding he abode in the same place where he was two days.
But after that he saith to his disciples, Let us go again into Judea.
The disciples say unto him, Rabbi, the Jews have just now sought to stone thee; and art thou going thither again?
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he doth not stumble, because he seeth the light of this world.
But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no light with him.
These things said he: and after that he saith to them, Our friend Lazarus is asleep; but I go to waken him up.
Then said his disciples, Lord, if he is asleep, he will recover.
Now Jesus had spoken of his death: but they apprehended that he spake of taking rest in sleep.
Then Jesus therefore told them plainly, Lazarus is dead.
And I rejoice on your account that I was not there, in order that ye may believe; but let us go to him.
Then said Thomas, (called Didymus, the twin,) to his fellow-disciples, Let us go too, that we may die with him.
Then Jesus, when he came; found that he had already lain in the tomb four days.
Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off:
and many of the Jews had come with the women who were about Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother.
Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, met him: but Mary sat in the house.
And Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
But even now I know, that whatsoever things thou shalt ask of God, God will give thee.
Jesus saith to her, Thy brother shall rise again.
Martha saith to him, I know that he shall rise at the resurrection in the last day.
Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:
and every one who is alive, and believeth in me, shall never die to eternity. Believest thou this?
She saith to him, Yes, Lord I believe that thou art the Messiah, the Son of God, who cometh into the world.
So when she had thus spoken, she went away, and called her sister Mary privately, saying, The Master is near at hand, and calleth for thee.
As soon as she heard it, she rose hastily, and came to him.
Now Jesus was not yet come into the village, but was on the spot where Martha had met him.
Then the Jews who were with her in the house, and comforting her, observing Mary, that she rose up hastily, and went out, followed her, saying, She is going to the tomb, to weep there.
When therefore Mary was come where Jesus was, beholding him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother would not have died!
When Jesus then saw her weeping, and all the Jews who came with her lamenting, he groaned in spirit, and was himself greatly agitated:
and he said, Where have ye laid him? They say to him, Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
Then said the Jews, Behold, how he loved him!
But some of them said, Could not this man, who openeth the eyes of the blind, have caused that this person should not have died?
Then Jesus again groaning in himself, cometh to the sepulchre. It was an excavation, and a stone lay upon it.
Jesus saith, Remove the stone. The sister of the deceased, Martha, said to him, Lord, he is by this time putrid: for he hath been dead four days.
Jesus saith unto her, Did I not tell thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shalt see the glory of God?
Then they removed the stone where the deceased was lying. And Jesus lifted his eyes upwards, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me!
And I knew that thou always dost hear me: but for the sake of the multitude standing by I spake, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.
And when he had thus spoken, with a loud voice he cried, Lazarus, come forth!
And the deceased came forth, his feet and his hands wrapped with the linen swathes; and his face bound round with a napkin. Jesus saith to them, Loose him, and let him go!
Then many of the Jews who came to Mary, and saw what Jesus had done, believed on him.
But some of them went to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done.
The chief priests and Pharisees therefore called the sanhedrim together, and said, What are we about? for this man is doing many miracles.
If we suffer him to go on thus, all men will believe on him: and the Romans will come, and take away both our place and nation.
Then one particular person of them, Caiaphas, being the high-priest of that year, said unto them, Ye know nothing,
nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation be not destroyed.
And this he spake not from himself: but being the high-priest of that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation;
and not for that nation only, but that he should collect into one body the children of God wherever dispersed.
Then from that day they consulted together how they might kill him.
Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews, but went thence into the country bordering on the desert, to a city called Ephraim, and there he abode with his disciples.
Now the passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the passover, in order to purify themselves.
Then they sought for Jesus, and said one to another, as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the feast?
Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given commandment, that, if any person knew where he was, they should declare it, that they might apprehend him.