To the chief musician. Concerning the Lilies. Of David. Save me, O God, for the waters have come in to my soul.
I sink in deep mire, and there is no standing; I have come into deep waters where the floods overflow me.
I am weary from my crying, my throat is scorched; my eyes fail while I wait for my God.
They who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head; they who would destroy me are mighty, my lying enemies; then I restored what I did not take by violence.
O God, You know my foolishness, and my guiltiness is not hidden from You.
O Jehovah of hosts, do not let those who wait on You be ashamed for my sake; let not the ones who seek You be ashamed for my sake, O God of Israel.
Because I suffered reproach for Your sake, shame has covered my face.
I have become a stranger to my brothers and a foreigner to my mother's children.
For the zeal of Your house has consumed Me; and the reproaches of the ones who reproach You have fallen on Me.
When I humbled my soul with fasting, it also was to my reproach;
I also made sackcloth my clothing, and I became a mockery to them.
They who sit in the gate spoke of me; and I was the song of drunkards.
But as for me, my prayer is to You, O Jehovah, at a time of favor, O God! in the plentitude of Your mercy answer me, in the truth of Your salvation.
Deliver me out of the mire, that I may not sink; let me be delivered from those who hate me, and out of the deep waters.
Let not the flood waters overflow me, nor let the deep swallow me up; and let not the pit shut its mouth on me.
Hear me, O Jehovah, for Your mercy is good; in the plentitude of Your tender mercies, turn toward me.
And do not hide Your face from Your servant; for I am distressed; hear me quickly;
draw near my soul; redeem it; ransom me because of my enemies.
You know my reproach and my shame, and my dishonor; my enemies are all before You.
Reproach has broken my heart, and I am faint; and I waited for one to show pity, but there was no one; and for comforters, but I found none.
They also gave Me gall in my food; and in My thirst they gave Me vinegar to drink.
Let their table be a trap before them, and to those at ease a snare.
Let their eyes be darkened from seeing, and cause their loins to quiver continually.
Pour out Your wrath on them; and let the glow of Your anger overtake them.
Let their home be made desolate; let no one dwell in their tents.
For whom You have stricken, they have persecuted; and they gossip to the pain of those You pierced.
Put iniquity to their iniquity, and do not let them enter into Your righteousness.
Blot them out from the Book of Life; yea, let them not be written with the righteous.
But I am poor and in pain; O God, Your salvation shall set me on high.
I will praise God's name in a song; and I will magnify Him with thanks.
And it shall please Jehovah more than bulls, horned or hoofed bull.
The humble have seen and are glad; you who seek God, your heart shall live.
For Jehovah hears the needy, and He does not despise His prisoners.
Let the heavens and the earth praise Him; the seas, and everything that moves in them.
For God will save Zion; and He will build the cities of Judah, and they shall live there and possess it.
And His servants' seed shall inherit; and they who love His name shall live in it.