And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me through the east gate of the LORD'S house, which looks eastward; and behold at the entrance of the gate twenty-five men; among whom I saw Jaazaniah the son of Azur and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
Then said he unto me, Son of man, these [are] the men that devise mischief and give wicked counsel in this city:
who say, [It is] not near; let us build houses; these [shall be] the caldron, and we the flesh.
Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man.
And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me and said unto me, Say: Thus hath the LORD said, Thus have ye said, O house of Israel: for I have understood the things that come up into your spirit.
Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain.
Therefore thus hath the Lord GOD said; Your slain whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they [are] the flesh, and it [is] the caldron; but I will bring you forth out of the midst of it.
Ye have feared the sword, and I will bring a sword upon you, said the Lord GOD.
And I will bring you out of the midst thereof and deliver you into the hands of strangers and will execute judgments in you.
Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of Israel; and ye shall know that I [am] the LORD.
This [city] shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the flesh in the midst thereof; [but] I must judge you in the border of Israel:
And ye shall know that I [am] the LORD; for ye have not walked in my statutes, neither have ye acted [according to] my judgments, but according to the judgments of the Gentiles that [are] round about you.
And it came to pass, as I was prophesying that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell down upon my face and cried with a loud voice and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel?
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
Son of man, thy brethren, [even] thy brethren, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel together, [are] they unto whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from the LORD; unto us is this land given in possession.
Therefore say, Thus hath the Lord GOD said: Although I have cast them far off among the Gentiles and although I have scattered them among the countries, yet I will be to them as a little sanctuary in the countries where they shall come.
Therefore say, Thus hath the Lord GOD said: I will even gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.
And they shall come there, and they shall remove all her contaminations and all her abominations from her.
And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh and will give them a heart of flesh:
that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my judgments, and fulfil them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
But [as for those] whose heart walks after the desire of their contaminations and of their abominations, I will recompense their way upon their own heads, said the Lord GOD.
Then the cherubim lifted up their wings and the wheels after them; and the glory of the God of Israel [was] over them above.
And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city and stood upon the mountain which [is] on the east side of the city.
Afterwards the Spirit took me up and brought me in a vision by the Spirit of God into the land of the Chaldeans to the captives. So the vision that I had seen went up from me.
Then I spoke unto the captives all the words of the LORD that he had showed me.: