This Melchisedech kynge of Salem (which beinge prest of ye most hye god met Abraham as he returned agayne from the slaughter of the kynges and blessed him:
to whom also Abraham gave tythes of all thynges) fyrst is by interpretacion kynge of rightewesnes: after yt he is kynge of Sale yt is to saye kynge of peace
with out father wt out mother with out kynne and hath nether begynnynge of his tyme nether yet ende of his lyfe: but is lykened vnto the sonne of god and cotinueth a preste for ever.
Consyder what a man this was vnto who the patriarke Abraham gave tythes of the spoyles.
And verely those children of levy which receave the office of the prestes have a commaundement to take a cordyng to the lawe tythes of the people that is to saye of their brethren yee though they spronge out of the loynes of Abraham.
But he whose kynred is not counted amonge them receaved tythes of Abraham and blessed him that had the promyses.
And no man denyeth but that which is lesse receaveth blessinge of yt which is greater.
And here men that dye receave tythes. But there he receaveth tythes of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
And to saye the trueth Levy him silfe also which receaveth tythes payed tythes in Abraham.
For he was yet in the loynes of his father Abraham when Melchisech met him.
Yf now therfore perfeccion came by the presthod of the levites (for vnder that presthod the people recaved the lawe) what neded it furthermore that an other prest shuld ryse after the order of Melchisedech and not after the order of Aaron?
Now no dout yf the presthod be translated then of necessitie must the lawe be translated also.
For he of whom these thynges are spoken pertayneth vnto another trybe of which never man served at the aultre.
For it is evidet that oure lorde spronge of the trybe of Iuda of which trybe spake Moses nothynge concernynge presthod.
And it is yet a more evydent thinge yf after the similitude of Melchisedech ther aryse a nother prest
which is not made after the lawe of the carnall commaundmet: but after the power of the endlesse lyfe
(For he testifieth: Thou arte a prest forever after the order of Melchysedech)
Then the commaundmet that went a fore is disanulled because of hir weaknes and vnproffitablenes.
For the lawe made nothynge parfecte: but was an introduccion of a better hope by which hope we drawe nye vnto god.
And for this cause it is a better hope that it was not promysed with out an othe.
Those prestes were made wt out an oth: but this prest with an oth by him that saide vnto him The lorde sware and will not repent: Thou arte a prest for ever after the order of Melchisedech.
And for that cause was Iesus a stablyssher of a better testament.
And amonge them many were made prestes because they were not suffred to endure by the reason of deeth.
But this man because he endureth ever hath an everlastinge presthod.
Wherfore he is able also ever to save them that come vnto god by him seynge he ever lyveth to make intercession for vs.
Soche an hye prest it became vs to have which is wholy harmlesse vndefyled separat from synners and made hyar then heven.
Which nedeth not dayly (as yonder hie prestes) to offer vp sacrifice fyrst for his awne synnes and then for the peoples synnes. For that did he at once for all when he offered vp him silfe.
For the lawe maketh men prestes which have infirmitie: but the worde of the othe that came fence ye lawe maketh the sonne prest which is parfecte for ever more.