Because of this we ought to give more earnest heed to the things that were heard, lest we might slip away.
For if the word spoken through agents became certain, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward,
how will we escape, having neglected so great a salvation? Which first, having taken to be spoken by the Lord, was verified for us by those who heard;
God also testifying simultaneously by signs and wonders, and by various powers and distributions of the Holy Spirit according to his will.
For he did not subject the coming world to agents, about which we speak.
But a certain man has somewhere testified, saying, What is man, that thou remember him? Or a son of man, that thou help him?
Thou made him a little something less than the agents. Thou crowned him with glory and honor.
Thou subordinated all things under his feet. For in subordinating all things to him, he left nothing not subordinate to him. But now we do not yet see all things subordinated to him.
But we see Jesus who has been made a little something less than the agents, who, because of the suffering of death, has been crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God he would taste of death for every man.
For it was fitting for him, through whom are all things, and because of whom are all things, having brought many sons to glory, to make the pathfinder of their salvation fully perfect through sufferings.
For both he who sanctifies and those being sanctified are all of one, because of which reason he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
saying, I will declare thy name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation I will sing praise to thee.
And again, I will be a man who has trusted in him. And again, Behold, I and the children that God has given me.
Since therefore the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise shared the same things, so that through death he might make him who has the power of death impotent, that is, the devil.
And he might liberate these, as many as throughout all their lifetime were deserving of bondage, with a specter of death.
For he certainly did not embrace agents, but he embraced the seed of Abraham.
Therefore he was obligated to be made like his brothers in accordance with all things, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things toward God, in order to make reconciliation for the sins of the people.
For in that he himself has suffered, having been tempted, he is able to help those being tempted.