These also [are] the generations of Aaron and of Moses in the day [that] the LORD spoke with Moses in Mount Sinai.
And these [are] the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab, the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
These [are] the names of the sons of Aaron, anointed priests, whose hands he filled to administer the priesthood.
But Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD, when they offered strange fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no sons; and Eleazar and Ithamar exercised the priesthood in the sight of Aaron, their father.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Bring the tribe of Levi near and present them before Aaron, the priest, that they may minister unto him.
And they shall keep his commandment and the commandment of the whole congregation before the tabernacle of the testimony, to minister in the service of the tabernacle.
And they shall keep all the instruments of the tabernacle of the testimony and the charge of the sons of Israel, to minister in the service of the tabernacle.
And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons; they [are] completely given unto him out of the sons of Israel.
And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons that they shall guard their priesthood; and the stranger that comes near shall be put to death.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Behold, I have taken the Levites from among the sons of Israel instead of all the firstborn that open the womb among the sons of Israel; therefore the Levites shall be mine;
because all the firstborn [are] mine; from the day that I smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I sanctified unto me all the firstborn in Israel, both of men and of animals; they shall be mine: I [am] the LORD.
The LORD also spoke unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
Number the sons of Levi by the houses of their fathers, by their families; thou shalt number every male from a month old and upward.
And Moses numbered them according to the word of the LORD, as he was commanded.
And these were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon and Kohath and Merari.
And these [are] the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei.
And the sons of Kohath by their families: Amram, Izehar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
And the sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These [are] the families of the Levites according to the houses of their fathers.
Of Gershon [was] the family of Libni and the family of Shimei; these [are] the families of Gershon.
Those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, those that were numbered of them [were] seven thousand five hundred.
The families of Gershon shall pitch behind the tabernacle to the west;
and the prince of the house of the father of the Gershonites, Eliasaph, son of Lael.
And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of the testimony [shall be] the tabernacle and the tent, the covering thereof, and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle of the testimony,
and the hangings of the court and the curtain for the door of the court, which is by the tabernacle and by the altar round about, and the cords of it for all the service thereof.
And of Kohath [was] the family of Amram and the family of Izehar and the family of Hebron and the family of Uzziel; these [are] the families of the Kohathites.
In the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, [were] eight thousand six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary.
The families of the sons of Kohath shall pitch on the side of the tabernacle towards the Negev;
and the prince of the house of the father of the families of Kohath, Elizaphan, son of Uzziel.
And their charge [shall be] the ark and the table and the candlestick and the altars and the vessels of the sanctuary with which they minister, and the veil, with all its service.
And Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, [shall be] principal over the princes of the Levites [and have] the oversight of those that keep the charge of the sanctuary.
Of Merari [was] the family of Mahli and the family of Mushi; these [are] the families of Merari.
And those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, [were] six thousand two hundred;
and the prince of the house of the father of the families of Merari, Zuriel the son of Abihail: [these] shall pitch on the side of the tabernacle to the Aquilon.
And [under] the custody and charge of the sons of Merari [shall be] the boards of the tabernacle and the bars thereof and the pillars thereof and the sockets thereof and all the instruments thereof, with all its service,
and the pillars of the court round about and their sockets and their stakes and their cords.
And those that encamp before the tabernacle toward the east, before the tabernacle of the testimony towards the sunrise, [shall be] Moses and Aaron and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the charge of the sons of Israel; and the stranger that comes near shall be put to death.
All that were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron, according to the word of the LORD, numbered by their families, all the males from a month old and upward, [were] twenty-two thousand.
And the LORD said unto Moses, Number all the firstborn of the males of the sons of Israel from a month old and upward and take the number of their names.
And thou shalt take the Levites for me (I [am] the LORD) instead of all the firstborn among the sons of Israel and the animals of the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the animals of the sons of Israel.
And Moses numbered, as the LORD commanded him, all the firstborn among the sons of Israel.
And all the firstborn males by the number of names, from a month old and upward, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty-two thousand two hundred seventy-three.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the sons of Israel and the animals of the Levites instead of their animals, and the Levites shall be mine; I [am] the LORD.
And for the ransoms of the two hundred seventy-three of the firstborn of the sons of Israel, who are more than the Levites,
thou shalt take five shekels apiece by the poll, after the shekel of the sanctuary shalt thou take [them] (the shekel is of twenty gerahs).
And thou shalt give the money, of the ransoms of the odd number of them, unto Aaron and to his sons.
And Moses took the ransom money of those that were over and above the ones that were redeemed by the Levites
and received of the firstborn of the sons of Israel, in money, a thousand three hundred and sixty-five [shekels], after the shekel of the sanctuary.
And Moses gave the money of the ransoms unto Aaron and to his sons, according to the word of the LORD, as the LORD had commanded Moses.: