Now, when Ezra had prayed and when he had made confession, weeping and casting himself down, before the house of God, there gathered unto him out of Israel, an exceeding large convocation—men and women and children, for the people wept with a very bitter weeping.
Then responded Shecaniah son of Jehiel of the sons of Elam, and said unto Ezra, We, have been faithful with our God, and have married foreign women from among the peoples of the land,—yet, now, there is hope for Israel concerning this thing.
Now, therefore, let us solemnize a covenant unto our God—to put away all the women and such as have been born of them, in the counsel of my lord, and them who tremble at the commandment of our God,—and, according to the law, let it be done.
Arise, for, upon thee, resteth the thing, but, we, are with thee,—be strong, and act.
Then arose Ezra and made the rulers of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel, swear to do according to this word—and they sware.
Then arose Ezra from before the house of God, and went into the chamber of Jehohanan son of Eliashib,—and, when he came thither, bread, did he not eat, and, water, did he not drink, for he was mourning over the unfaithfulness of them of the Exile.
Then made they a proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem, unto all the Sons of the Exile, to gather themselves together unto Jerusalem;
and, whosoever should not come within three days, according to the counsel of the rulers and the elders, all his goods should be devoted,—and, himself, be separated from the convocation of them of the Exile.
Then were gathered together all the men of Judah and Benjamin unto Jerusalem, within three days, the same, was the ninth month, on the twentieth of the month,—and all the people remained in the broadway of the house of God, trembling concerning the thing, and because of the heavy rains.
Then arose Ezra the priest, and said unto them, Ye, have acted unfaithfully, and have married foreign women,—to add unto the guilt of Israel.
Now, therefore, make confession unto Yahweh God of your fathers, and do his pleasure,—and separate yourselves from the peoples of the land, and from the foreign women.
Then responded all the convocation and said, with a loud voice,—Thus, according to thy word concerning us, must it be done.
Nevertheless, the people, are many, and, the season, is that of the heavy rains, and we are not able to stand outside,—and, the business, is not one for a single day, nor yet for two, for we have abundantly transgressed, in this thing.
Let, we beseech thee, our rulers take up their station for all the convocation, and, all who, throughout our cities, have married foreign women, let them come in at times appointed, and, with them, the elders of every city, and the judges thereof, until the glow of the anger of our God be turned from us, concerning this matter.
Only Jonathan son of Asahel and Jahzeiah son of Tikvah, made a stand against this,—and, Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite, helped them.
But the Sons of the Exile, did thus, and Ezra the priest separated to himself certain men—ancestral heads by their ancestral houses, and all of them by name,—and they took their seats on the first day of the tenth month to search into the matter;
and they made an end with all the men who had married foreign women,—by the first day of the first month.
Now there were found, of the sons of the priests, who had married foreign women,—of the sons of Jeshua son of Jozadak, and his brethren, Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah;
and they gave their hand, that they would put away their wives,—and, being guilty, [they offered] a ram of the flock for their guilt.
And, of the sons of Immer, Hanani, and Zebadiah.
And, of the sons of Harim, Maaseiah and Elijah and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah.
And, of the sons of Passhur, Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasar.
And, of the Levites, Jozabad and Shimei, and Kelaiah, the same, is Kelita, Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.
And, of the singers, Eliashib. And, of the doorkeepers, Shallum and Telem and Uri.
And, of Israel, of the sons of Parosh, Ramiah and Izziah and Malchijah and Mijamin and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.
And, of the sons of Elam, Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah.
And, of the sons of Zattu, Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.
And, of the sons of Bebai, Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai.
And, of the sons of Bani, Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, Jeremoth.
And, of the sons of Pahath-moab, Adna and Chelal,—Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.
And, [of] the sons of Harim, Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon;
Benjamin, Malluch, Shemariah.
Of the sons of Hashum, Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet,—Jeremai, Manasseh, Shimei.
Of the sons of Bani, Maadai, Amram, and Uel;
Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhu;
Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib;
Mettaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasu;
and Bani, and Binnui, Shimei;
and Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah;
Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai;
Azarel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah;
Shallum, Amariah, Joseph.
Of the sons of Nebo, Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina,—Iddo, and Joel, Benaiah.
All these, had taken foreign women,—and had begotten of them children.