And these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron were Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and they had no sons. And Eleazar and Ithamar were priests.
And David divided them according to their offices in their service, even Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar.
And more sons of Eleazar were found than the sons of Ithamar, for heads of the men. And they divided them. For the sons of Eleazar were : sixteen chiefs to their father's house; and eight to the sons of Ithamar, to the house of their fathers.
So they divided them by lots, these with these. For these were the rulers of the sanctuary and rulers of God, of Eleazar's sons and Ithamar's sons.
And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, of the Levites, wrote them before the king, and the rulers, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers of the priests and Levites. One father's house was taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.
And the first lot came out for Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Aphses,
the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel,
the twenty first to Jachin, the twenty second to Gamul,
the twenty third to Delaiah, the twenty fourth to Maaziah.
These were the orderings of them in their service to come into the house of Jehovah, according to their ordinance, to Aaron their father, as Jehovah God of Israel had commanded him.
And the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
For Rehabiah, of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was Isshiah.
Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath.
And the sons of Hebron were Jeriah. Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
Of the sons of Uzziel, Michah. Of the sons of Michah, Shamir.
The brother of Michah was Isshiah. Of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Jaaziah: Beno.
The sons of Merari by Jaaziah: Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.
Of Mahli, Eleazar, and no sons were to him.
Of Kish, Jerahmeel the son of Kish.
The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to their father's house.
And they also made fall lots just as their brothers the sons of Aaron did before the face of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers, for the priests and Levites, even the head of the fathers, as well as his younger brother.