Brothers, truly my heart's pleasure and supplication to God on behalf of Israel is for it to be saved.
For I testify to them that they have zeal to God, but not according to knowledge.
For being ignorant of the righteousness of God, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, they did not submit to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is the end of law for righteousness to everyone that believes.
For Moses writes of the righteousness which is of the law: "The man doing these things shall live by them." Lev. 18:5
But the righteousness of faith says this: "Do not say in your heart, Who will go up into Heaven?" (that is, to bring down Christ);
or, "Who will go down into the abyss?" (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead.)
But what does it say? "The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart" (that is, the word of faith which we proclaim) Deut. 9:4; 30:12-14 .
Because if you confess the Lord Jesus with your mouth, and believe in your heart that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved.
For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth one confesses unto salvation.
For the Scripture says, "Everyone believing on Him will not be put to shame." Isa. 28:16
For there is no difference both of Jew and of Greek, for the same Lord of all is rich toward all the ones calling on Him.
For everyone, "whoever may call on the name of the Lord will be saved." Joel 3:5
How then may they call on One in whom they have not believed? And how may they believe One of whom they have not heard? And how may they hear without preaching?
And how may they preach if they are not sent? Even as it has been written, "How beautiful" "the feet of those announcing the gospel of peace, of those announcing the gospel of good things." Isa. 52:7
But not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, "Lord, who has believed our report?" Isa. 53:1
Then faith is of hearing, and hearing through the Word of God.
But I say, Did they not hear? Yes, rather, "into all the earth their voice went out, and to the ends of the world their words." LXX-Psa. 18:5; MT-Psa. 19:4
But I say, Did not Israel know? First, Moses says, "I will provoke you to jealousy by a not-nation, by an unwise nation I will anger you." Deut. 32:21
But Isaiah is very bold and says, "I was found by those not seeking Me; I became known to those not inquiring after Me." Isa. 65:1
But to Israel He says, "All the day I stretched out My hands to a disobeying and contradicting people." Isa. 65:2