And these were the sons of David, who were born to him in Hebron. The first-born, Amnon, of Ahinoam of Jezreel. The second, Daniel, of Abigail of Carmel.
The third, Absalom the son of Maachah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur. The fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith.
The fifth, Shephatiah of Abital. The sixth was Ithream by Eglah his wife.
These six were born to him in Hebron. And there he reigned seven years and six months. And he reigned in Jerusalem thirty-three years.
And these were born to him in Jerusalem Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four of Bathsheba the daughter of Ammiel
and Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,
and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
These were all the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines, and Tamar their sister.
And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, and Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
Jehoram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
Amon his son, Josiah his son.
And the sons of Josiah: Johanan the first-born, Jehoiakim the second, Zedekiah the third, Shallum the fourth.
And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, and Zedekiah his son.
And the sons of Jeconiah: Assir, and Shealtiel his son,
and Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
And the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister,
and Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-hesed, five.
And the sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah, and Jesaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shechaniah.
And the son of Shechaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
And the sons of Neariah were Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.
And the sons of Elioenai: Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven.