And he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard, and set up a hedge, and dug a wine vat, and built a tower, and leased it to farmers, and went on a journey.
And at the season he sent forth a bondman to the farmers, so that he might receive by the farmers from the fruit of the vineyard.
And having seized him, they beat him, and sent him away empty.
And again he sent another bondman to them. And that man, having stoned, they wounded in the head, and sent him away shamefully treated.
And again he sent another, and that man they killed, and many others, beating some, and killing some.
Therefore, still having his one beloved son, he also sent him to them, last, saying, They will be made ashamed by my son.
But those farmers said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.
And having taken him, they killed him, and cast him outside of the vineyard.
What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the farmers, and will give the vineyard to others.
And have ye not read this scripture: The stone that those who build rejected, this came to be into the head of the corner.
This happened from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes?
And they sought to seize him. And they feared the multitude, for they knew that he spoke the parable against them. And having left him, they went away.
And they send some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians to him, so that they might catch him in talk.
And when they came, they say to him, Teacher, we have seen that thou are true, and it is not a care to thee about any man, for thou look not to a personage of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it permitted to give tribute to Caesar or not?
Should we give, or should we not give? But Jesus, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do ye test me? Bring me a denarius, so that I may see it.
And they brought it. And he says to them, Whose is this image and inscription? And they said to him, Caesar's.
And having answered, Jesus said to them, Render the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God. And they marveled at him.
And Sadducees come to him, who say there is no resurrection. And they questioned him, saying,
Teacher, Moses wrote to us, If a man's brother dies, and leaves behind a wife, and leaves no child, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed for his brother.
There were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.
And the second took her, and died, neither did he leave seed behind, and the third likewise.
And the seven took her, and left no seed. Last of all the woman also died.
In the resurrection when they rise, whose wife will she be of them? For the seven had her as wife.
And having answered, Jesus said to them, Are ye not led astray because of this: not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God?
For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as agents in the heavens.
But about the dead, that they rise, have ye not read in the book of Moses, how God spoke to him at the bush, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?
He is not the God of the dead, but God of the living. Ye therefore are much misled.
And one of the scholars having come, having heard them disputing, knowing that he had answered them well, he questioned him, Which is the first commandment of all?
And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, thou Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord,
and thou shall love the Lord thy God from thy whole heart, and from thy whole soul, and from thy whole mind, and from thy whole strength. This is the first commandment.
And this second is similar, Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself. There is no other commandment greater than these.
And the scholar said to him, Well, teacher. Thou spoke in truth that he is one, and there is no other but he.
And to love him from the whole heart, and from the whole understanding, and from the whole soul, and from the whole strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.
And when Jesus saw him, that he answered wisely, he said to him, Thou are not far from the kingdom of God. And no man dared to question him any more.
And having responded as he taught in the temple, Jesus said, How do the scholars say that the Christ is the son of David?
For David himself said by the Holy Spirit, The Lord says to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I may place thine enemies a footstool of thy feet.
David himself therefore calls him Lord, and in what way is he his son? And the great multitude heard him gladly.
And in his teaching he said to them, Look away from the scholars, those who desire to go about in long robes, and salutations in the marketplaces,
and chief seats in the synagogues, and places of honor at the feasts,
those who devour widows' houses, and praying long in pretence. These will receive greater condemnation.
And having sat down opposite the treasury, Jesus watched how the multitude cast money into the treasury, and many rich men cast in much.
And one poor widow having come, she cast in two mites, which are a quadrans.
And having summoned his disciples, he says to them, Truly I say to you, that this poor widow cast in more than all those who are casting into the treasury.
For they all cast in from that which is abundant to them, but she from her need cast in all, as many things she had, her whole living.