The Proverbs of Solomon: A wise son, maketh a glad father, but, a foolish son, is the grief of his mother.
The treasures of lawlessness, do not profit, but, righteousness, delivereth from death.
Yahweh, suffereth not to famish, the soul of the righteous, but, the desire of the lawless, he thrusteth away.
He becometh poor, who dealeth with a slack hand, but, the hand of the diligent, maketh rich.
He that gathereth in summer, is a prudent son, he that sleepeth long in harvest, is a son causing shame.
Blessings, are for the head of the righteous man, but, the mouth of the lawless, covereth up wrong.
The memory of the righteous, yieldeth blessing, but, the name of the lawless, dieth out.
The wise in heart, will accept commandments, but, he that is foolish with his lips, shall be thrust away.
He that walketh uprightly, may walk securely, but, he that maketh crooked his ways, shall be found out.
He that winketh with the eye, causeth sorrow, and, he that is foolish with his lips, shall be thrust aside.
A well-spring of life, is the mouth of the righteous, but, the mouth of the lawless, covereth wrong.
Hatred, stirreth up strifes, but, over all transgressions, love throweth a covering.
In the lips of the intelligent, is found wisdom, but, a rod, is for the back of him that lacketh sense.
Wise men, treasure up knowledge, but, the mouth of the foolish, is a terror near at hand.
The substance of the rich, is his strong city, the terror of the poor, is their poverty.
The labour of the righteous, [leadeth] to life, the increase of the lawless, to sin.
On the way to life, is he that heedeth correction, but, he that hateth reproof, is going astray.
He that concealeth hatred, hath false lips, and he that sendeth forth slander, the same, is a dullard.
In the multitude of words, there wanteth not transgression, but, he that restraineth his lips, sheweth prudence.
Choice silver, is the tongue of the righteous, but, the sense of the lawless, is very small.
The lips of the righteous, feed multitudes, but, the foolish, for lack of sense, shall die.
The blessing of Yahweh, itself maketh rich, and he addeth no grievance therewith.
It is, mere sport to a stupid man, to commit lewdness, but, wisdom, pertaineth to a man of understanding.
The dread of the lawless one, the same, shall overtake him, but, the desire of the righteous, shall he granted.
Like the passing away of a tempest, so the lawless one is not, but, the righteous, [hath] an age-abiding foundation.
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so, is the sluggard, to them who send him.
The reverence of Yahweh, addeth days, but, the years of the lawless, shall be shortened.
The hope of the righteous, shall be gladness, but, the expectation of the lawless, shall vanish.
A refuge for the blameless, is the path of Yahweh, but, destruction, [awaiteth] the workers of iniquity.
The righteous, to times age-abiding, shall remain unshaken, but, the lawless, shall not inhabit the earth.
The mouth of the righteous, beareth the fruit of wisdom, but, a perverse tongue, shall be cut off.
The lips of the righteous, know what is pleasing, but, the mouth of the lawless, [speaketh] perversities.