And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place. And he made himself strong against Israel.
And he placed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set troops in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which Asa his father had taken.
And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the first ways of his father David and did not seek to Baals.
But he looked to the God of his father, and walked in His commandments, and not after the doings of Israel.
And the LORD made the kingdom sure in his hand. And all Judah brought presents to Jehoshaphat. And he had great riches and honor.
And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD. And he took away the high places and Asherahs out of Judah.
And in the third year of his reign he sent to his rulers, to Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.
And with them he sent Levites, Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah, Levites. And with them he sent Elishama and Jehoram the priests.
And they taught in Judah and had the book of the law of the LORD with them, and went around throughout all the cities of Judah and taught the people.
And the fear of the LORD fell on all the kingdoms of the lands around Judah, so that they did not make war against Jehoshaphat.
And from the Philistines they brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute. Also the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he-goats.
And Jehoshaphat became exceedingly great. And he built fortresses in Judah, and store cities.
And he had much business in the cities of Judah. And the men of war, mighty men of valor, were in Jerusalem.
And these were their numbers, for the house of their fathers from Judah, the commanders of thousands: Adnah the chief, and with him were three hundred thousand mighty men of valor.
And on his hand, Jehohanan the chief, and with him were two hundred and eighty thousand.
And on his hand, Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to the LORD, and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor.
And from Benjamin was Eliada, a mighty man of valor, and with him two hundred thousand men armed with bow and shield.
And on his hand, Jehozabad, and with him a hundred and eighty thousand ready and prepared for war.
These waited on the king, besides those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.