THEN he came to Derbe and Lystra: and, behold! a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a certain Jewish woman, who believed; but his father was a Greek:
who was highly spoken of by the brethren at Lystra and Iconium.
Him Paul resolved to take out with him; and took and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places: for they all knew his father, that he was a Greek.
So as they passed through the cities, they delivered to them for their observance the ordinances decreed by the apostles and presbyters that were at Jerusalem.
Then were the churches established truly in the faith, and increased in number daily.
So passing through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, being forbidden by the Holy Ghost to speak the word in Asia,
coming as far as Mysia, they made an effort to go unto Bythinia: but the Spirit permitted them not.
Whereupon passing by Mysia they went down to Troas.
And a vision by night appeared to Paul; a certain man, a Macedonian, stood by him, entreating him, and saying, Pass over into Macedonia, and help us.
But when he saw the vision, immediately we sought to go forth into Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel to them.
Therefore sailing from Troas, we came in a direct course to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis;
and from thence to Philippi, which is the first city in that part of Macedonia, and a colony: and we abode in that city some days.
And on the sabbath-day we went forth out of the city to the river side, where an oratory was by custom established; and sitting down, we spoke to the women who there assembled.
And a certain woman, Lydia by name, a seller of purple, from the city of Thyatira, a worshipper of God, hearkened: whose heart the Lord thoroughly opened, to attend to the words spoken by Paul.
So when she was baptised, and her house, she entreated, saying, Since ye have judged that I am faithful to the Lord, come and abide at my house. And she constrained us.
Now it happened as we were going to the oratory, a certain damsel having a pythonic spirit met us, who produced for her masters much gain as a fortuneteller:
she following Paul and us, cried out, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God, who preach to you the way of salvation.
And this she did for several days. Then Paul was wearied out, and turning, said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out that very hour.
But when her masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they laid hold on Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the forum before the chief rulers,
and presenting them to the magistrates, they said, These are the men that exceedingly disturb the peace of our city, being Jews,
and enjoin customs which it is not lawful for us to receive, or to practise, being Romans.
And the populace stood up together against them: and the magistrates, after having had their garments torn from their backs, commanded them to be beaten with rods.
And laying on them many stripes, cast them into prison, commanding the jailor to keep them in safe custody:
who, receiving such an injunction, thrust them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks.
But about midnight Paul and Silas, after joining in prayer, sang hymns to God: and the prisoners heard them.
And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the very foundations of the prison were shaken: and instantly all the doors flew open, and every man’s chains were loosed.
Then the jailor being roused from sleep, and seeing the doors of the prison open, drew his sword, going to destroy himself, supposing the prisoners had escaped.
But Paul called out with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no injury: for we are all here.
Thereupon calling for a light, he rushed in, and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas;
and having first brought them out, said, Sirs! what must I do to be saved?
And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, thou, and thy house.
And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all who were in his house.
And taking them that same hour of the night, he washed their stripes; and was baptised, himself and all who belonged to him immediately.
And when he had brought them into his house, he spread the table, and greatly rejoiced with all his household, believing in God.
But when it was day, the magistrates sent the lictors, saying, Set those men at large.
Then the jailor told these words to Paul, That the magistrates had sent to set them at liberty: now therefore, said he, get ye out, and pursue your journey in peace.
But Paul said to them, They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men that are Roman citizens, and have cast us into prison; and would they now clandestinely send us away? no, verily; but let them come themselves and fetch us out.
Then the lictors reported all these words to the magistrates: and they were terrified, when they heard they were Roman citizens.
So they came and spoke kindly to them, and fetching them out, besought them to depart from the city.
Then leaving the prison, they went unto Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and went their way.