Therefore six days before the Passover Jesus came to Bethany where Lazarus was, the man who died whom he raised from the dead.
So they made a supper for him there, and Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those who sat dining with him.
Mary therefore, after taking a pound of ointment of very costly genuine spikenard, anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled of the aroma of the ointment.
Therefore one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, the man who was going to betray him, says,
Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii, and given to the poor?
Now he said this, not because it was a concern to him about the poor, but because he was a thief, and he had the purse and removed things that were put in.
Jesus therefore said, Let her alone. She has keep it for the day of my burial.
For ye always have the poor with you, but ye do not always have me.
Therefore a great multitude of the Jews knew that he is there. And they came, not only because of Jesus, but that they might also see Lazarus whom he had raised from the dead.
But the chief priests decided that they should kill Lazarus also,
since because of him many of the Jews were going and were believing in Jesus.
On the morrow a great multitude having come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
took the branches of the palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel!
And Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat on it, as it is written,
Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy King comes, sitting on a donkey's colt.
Now his disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these were things written because of him, and they did these things to him.
Therefore the multitude, the one that was with him when he called Lazarus from the sepulcher, and raised him from the dead, testified.
Also because of this the multitude met him, because they heard of him doing this sign.
The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Do ye see that ye accomplish nothing. Behold, the world has gone after him.
Now some Greeks were from those who came up so that they might worship at the feast.
These men therefore came to Philip, the man from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we want to see Jesus.
Philip comes and tells Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus.
And Jesus answered them saying, The hour has come that the Son of man should be glorified.
Truly, truly, I say to you, unless the grain of wheat that falls into the ground dies, it remains alone, but if it dies it bears much fruit.
He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.
If any man serves me, let him follow me, and where I am, there my helper will also be. And if any man serves me, the Father will honor him.
Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But because of this I came to this hour.
Father, glorify thy name. A voice therefore came out of heaven, saying, I both glorified it, and I will glorify again.
The multitude therefore that stood by and heard, said thunder occurred, others said, An agent has spoken to him.
Jesus answered and said, This voice occurred not for my sake, but for your sakes.
Now is the judgment of this world. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out.
And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men to myself.
And he said this, signifying by what death he was going to die.
The multitude answered him, We have heard from the law that the Christ remains into the age. And how can thou say, The Son of man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of man?
Jesus therefore said to them, Yet a little time the light is with you. Walk while ye have the light, so that darkness may not overcome you. And he who walks in the darkness knows not where he is going.
While ye have the light, believe in the light, so that ye may become sons of light. Jesus spoke these things, and after departing, he was hid from them.
But although having done so many signs before them, they did not believe in him,
so that the word of Isaiah the prophet that he spoke might be fulfilled: Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?
Because of this they could not believe. Because Isaiah said again,
He has blinded their eyes, and has hardened their heart, so that they would not see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and be turned, and I would heal them.
Isaiah said these things when he saw his glory, and spoke about him.
Yet, nevertheless, even many of the rulers believed in him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess, so that they would not become excommunicated from the synagogue,
for they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.
And Jesus cried out and said, He who believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me.
And he who sees me sees him who sent me.
I have come a light into the world, so that every man who believes in me may not remain in the darkness.
And if any man hears my sayings, and will not believe, I do not judge him, for I came not so that I might judge the world, but that I might save the world.
He who rejects me and does not receive my sayings, has that which judges him: the word that I spoke, that will judge him in the last day.
Because I spoke not from myself, but the Father who sent me, he gave me commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.
And I know that his commandment is eternal life. Therefore what things I speak, just as the Father has said to me, so I speak.