And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be registered.
(This registering was the first made while Quirinius was governor of Syria.)
And all went to be registered, each to his own city.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judaea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David,
to be registered with Mary who had been betrothed to him, who was with child.
And it came to pass, while they were there, that the days for her delivery were completed.
And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swathing-clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn.
And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, and keeping watch over their flock by night.
And an angel of the Lord came to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them; and they were in great fear.
And the angel said to them, Fear not; for lo! I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to the whole people;
for to you hath been born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, who is the Christ, the Lord.
And this shall be the sign to you: Ye shall find a babe wrapped in swathing-clothes, [lying] in a manger.
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying,
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men of good will!"
And it came to pass, when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said one to another, Let us go at once to Bethlehem, and see that which hath come to pass, which the Lord hath made known to us.
And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in the manger.
And when they had seen it, they made known abroad what had been told them concerning this child.
And all who heard wondered at the things which were told them by the shepherds.
But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart.
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all which they had heard and seen, as had been told them.
And when eight days were completed for him to be circumcised, his name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
And when the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were completed, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord,
as it is written in the law of the Lord: "Every first-born male shall be called holy to the Lord,"
and to offer a sacrifice, according to what is directed in the law of the Lord: "A pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons."
And lo! there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and he was a righteous and devout man, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him;
and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit, that he should not see death before he had seen the Christ of the Lord.
And he came in the Spirit into the temple; and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the law,
he took him in his arms, and blessed God, and said,
Lord! now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word;
for mine eyes have seen thy salvation,
which thou hast prepared before the face of all the peoples;
a light to enlighten the gentiles, and to be the glory of thy people Israel.
And his father and his mother marveled at what was spoken concerning him.
And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that will be spoken against; —
yea, a sword will pierce through thine own soul,—that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.
And there was Anna, a prophetess, daughter of Phanuel: of the tribe of Asher; she was of great age, and had lived with a husband seven years from her virginity;
and she was a widow eighty-four years old, who never left the temple, worshipping with fastings and prayers night and day.
And she came up at this very time, and gave thanks to God, and spoke of him to all that were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem.
And when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
And the child grew, and waxed strong, being filled with wisdom; and the grace of God was upon him.
Now his parents used to go yearly to Jerusalem at the feast of the passover.
And when he was twelve years old, and they went up, after the custom of the feast,
and had completed the days, on their returning, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and his parents did not know it,
but, supposing him to be in the company, went a day’s journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance;
and not finding him, they returned to Jerusalem in search of him.
And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the temple sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions.
And all who heard him were astonished at his understanding and his answers.
And when they saw him, they were amazed; and his mother said to him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have been seeking thee in much distress.
And he said to them, Why is it that ye have been seeking me? Did ye not know that I must be about my Father’s business?
And they understood not what he spoke to them.
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them. And his mother kept all these things in her heart.
And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.