And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led in the Spirit in the wilderness
forty days, tempted by the Devil. And he ate nothing in those days; and when they were ended, he was hungry.
And the Devil said to him, If thou art the Son of God, command this stone that it become a loaf of bread.
And Jesus answered him, It is written, "Not on bread alone shall man live."
And taking him up, he showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
And the Devil said to him, All this power will I give thee, and their glory; because to me it hath been delivered, and I give it to whomever I will.
If thou then wilt worship me, it shall all be thine.
And Jesus answering said to him, It is written, "Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve."
And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If thou art the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence;
for it is written, "He will give his angels charge concerning thee, to guard thee;
and in their hands they will bear thee up, that thou mayst not dash thy foot against a stone."
And Jesus answering said to him, It hath been said, "Thou shalt not make trial of the Lord thy God."
And when he had brought every temptation to an end, the Devil departed from him for a season.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee; and there went out a report concerning him through all the surrounding country
And he taught in their synagogues, honored by all.
And he came to Nazara, where he had been brought up, and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath-day; and stood up to read.
And there was delivered to him the book of the prophet Isaiah; and unrolling the book, he found the place where it was written,
"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he anointed me to preach glad tidings to the poor; he hath sent me to proclaim deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty the oppressed,
to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord."
And rolling up the book, he gave it back to the attendant, and sat down; and the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed upon him.
And he began to say to them, To-day hath this scripture been fulfilled in your ears.
And they all spoke in his praise, and wondered at the words of grace which proceeded from his mouth; and they said, Is not this Joseph’s son?
And he said to them, Ye will doubtless say to me this proverb, "Physician, heal thyself;" whatever things we have heard of as having been done in Capernaum, do here too in thy own country.
And he said, Truly do I say to you, No prophet is acceptable in his own country.
But I tell you in truth, that there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, and there was a great famine throughout all the land;
and yet to none of them was Elijah sent, but to Sarepta in Sidonia, to a woman that was a widow.
And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet; and not one of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian.
And all in the synagogue, when they heard this, were filled with wrath.
And they rose up, and forced him out of the city and took him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, to cast him down headlong;
but he, passing through the midst of them, went away.
And he came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and was teaching them on the sabbath.
And they were astonished at his teaching; for his word was with authority.
And in the synagogue there was a man having a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,
Ha! what have we to do with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? Thou hast come to destroy us. I know who thou art, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent, and come out of him. And the demon threw him down in the midst, and came out of him, having done him no hurt.
And all were amazed; and they spoke with one another, saying, What kind of word is this, that with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out?
And there went out a report concerning him into every place of the surrounding country.
And he arose and went from the synagogue into the house of Simon. And Simon’s wife’s mother was seized with a great fever; and they besought him for her.
And standing over her, he rebuked the fever, and it left her. And immediately she arose and waited on them.
And when the sun was setting, all who had any sick with divers diseases brought them to him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.
And demons also came out from many, crying out, and saying, Thou art the Son of God. And he rebuked them, and did not suffer them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ.
And when it was day, he went out, and betook himself to a desert place; and the multitudes went in search of him; and they came to him, and would have prevented him from leaving them.
But he said to them, I must publish the good tidings of the kingdom of God to the other cities also; because for this I was sent forth.
And he continued to preach in the synagogues of Galilee.