AND as he passed along, he saw a man blind from his birth.
And his disciples inquired of him, saying, Rabbi, who was in fault, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither hath this man been in fault, nor his parents; but it is in order to make manifest the works of God in him.
I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night is coming, when no man can work.
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
So speaking, he spat on the ground, and made mud with the spittle, and anointed with the mud the eyes of the blind man;
and said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which signifies, Sent.) Then he went and washed, and came seeing.
The neighbours therefore, and they who saw him formerly, that he was blind, said, Is not this the man who was sitting and begging?
Some said, That this is he: but others, That he is like him: he himself said, I am he.
When said they to him, How were thine eyes opened?
he answered and said, A man called Jesus made mud, and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: then I went, and washing received sight.
They said to him, Where is he? He replied, I know not.
They brought him to the Pharisees, who had before been blind.
(Now it was the sabbath-day when Jesus made the mud, and opened his eyes.)
The Pharisees therefore questioned him again, How he had received sight? And he told them, He put mud upon my eyes, and I washed, and do see.
Then said certain of the Pharisees, This man is not from God, because he observeth not the sabbath. Others said, How is it possible for a wicked man to do such miracles? And there was a division among them.
They say to the blind man again, What sayest thou of him? that he opened thine eyes? Then he replied, That he is a prophet.
Then the Jews did not believe that he had been blind, and received sight, until that they had called the parents of him who had received sight.
And they questioned them, saying, Is this your son, of whom ye say, that he was born blind? how then doth he now see?
His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:
but how he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he himself will tell you about it.
So spake his parents, because they were afraid of the Jews: for the Jews had already come to a resolution, that if any person acknowledged him Messiah, he should be excluded the synagogue.
Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.
The second time therefore they called the man who had been blind, and said unto him, Give the glory to God: we know that this man is a sinner.
Then answered he and said, Whether this man be a sinner, I know not: one thing I do know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.
Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eves?
He answered them, I have already told you, and ye did not hearken: why do ye wish to hear it again? will ye also become his disciples?
Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple, but we are the disciples of Moses.
We know that God spake to Moses: but we know nothing of this man, whence he is.
The man replied, and said to them, Now herein is something very surprising, that you know not whence he is, though he hath opened my eyes.
Now we know that God doth not hearken to sinners: but if any man be a devout worshipper, and doeth his will, him he heareth.
From the creation of the world hath it never been heard, that any man opened the eyes of one born blind.
If this man were not from God, he could not do any thing.
They answered and said unto him, Thou wast wholly born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and finding him, said to him, Believest thou in the Son of God?
The man answered and said, Who is he, Sir, that I might believe on him?
Then said Jesus him, Thou hast even seen him, and he that is now talking with thee is the very person.
Then he said, Lord, I believe: and worshipped him.
And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they who see not may see; and they who see become blind.
And some of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said to him, Are we blind also?
Jesus said to them, If ye were blind, ye should not have had sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin is permanent.