SO after five days Ananias the high-priest went down with the elders, and a certain rhetorician, Tertullus, who made their appearance before the governor against Paul.
And he being summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying,   Since by thee we enjoy so much peace, and such noble acts are happily performed for this nation by thy provident administration,
always and in all places we acknowledge it, most excellent Felix, with all gratitude.
Now that I may not be unnecessarily tedious to thee, I entreat thee to hear us briefly with thy wonted candour.
For we found this fellow a pest to society, and exciting sedition among all the Jews throughout the whole world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazareans:
who even attempted to profane the temple: we seized him therefore, and intended to judge him according to our own law.
But Lysias the tribune came, and with great violence took him out of our hands,
commanding his accusers to appear before thee: whereby thou mayest thyself be able after examination to know the certainty of those things whereof we accuse him.
Then the Jews also joined in affirming, that these things were so.
But Paul (the governor having made him a sign to speak) replied,   Knowing that for so many years thou hast been the judge of this nation, I with the more confidence offer my defence respecting the matters which concern me:
as thou mayest be ascertained, that it is not more than twelve days ago since I went up to worship in Jerusalem.
And neither in the temple found they me disputing with any man, nor raising any sedition among the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city:
neither can they produce any proof of the facts of which they accuse me.
But this I confess to thee, that after the way which they call a sect, so worship I the God of our ancestors, believing all things that are written in the law, and in the prophets:
and having hope in God, the same which they also profess to look for, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and of the unjust.
For this cause indeed I exert my utmost care to keep my conscience ever unoffending towards God and towards man.
Now after many years absence I was returned bringing alms to my countrymen, and oblations to the temple.
In the discharge of which offices certain Jews of Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with a multitude, nor with any tumult.
Who ought to have appeared before thee, and prefer their accusation, if they had any thing against me.
Or let the persons themselves here present say, if they found any thing criminal in me, when I stood before the sanhedrim,
except for this one sentence, which I uttered aloud when I was standing among them, For the resurrection of the dead am I this day judged by you.
When Felix then heard these things he put them off, (for he knew very exactly all that related to that way,) saying, When Lysias the tribune is come down, I will inquire thoroughly into the matters between you.
And he commanded the centurion that Paul should be safe kept, yet have no close confinement, and not to hinder any of his friends from supplying his wants, or visiting him.
Now after some days, Felix returning with Drusilla his wife, who was a Jewess, sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ.
And as he discoursed of righteousness, and temperance, and the judgment which is ready to be revealed, Felix being greatly terrified, replied, Go, for the present, I will some time hence take another opportunity of calling for thee.
Indeed he had also entertained hope that money would be given him by Paul, in order to release him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, and conversed with him.
But when two years were ended, Felix had Portius Festus appointed for his successor: and willing to curry favour with the Jews, Felix left Paul in chains.