PETER, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the sojourners, dispersed through Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, by sanctification of the Spirit, that they might be brought to the obedience, and sprinkled with the blood of Jesus Christ: grace unto you and peace be multiplied.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto an animating hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
for an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and unfading, reserved in the heavens for you,
who are guarded by the omnipotence of God, through faith to obtain the salvation which is ready to appear at the last time.
Wherein ye exult, though yet for a little space, (if it must be so,) ye are in sorrow through various trials:
that the test of your faith (much more precious than that of gold, which is of a perishing nature, though proved by fire) may be found unto praise and honour and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ:
whom though ye have not seen, ye love; on whom, though ye have not as yet gazed, yet believing, ye exult with joy unutterable and glorious:
receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
Concerning which salvation the prophets eagerly sought and diligently inquired, who prophesied of the grace which is come to you:
investigating to what time and to what conjuncture the Spirit of Christ in them pointed, when predicting the sufferings coming upon Christ, and the glories subsequent thereto.
To whom it was revealed, that not for themselves, but for us were their ministrations employed in the things which are now declared unto you by those who have preached the gospel unto you by the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven; on which things the angels bending forwards eagerly desire to gaze.
Wherefore girding up the loins of your mind, vigilant, wait with assured hope for the grace, which shall be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ;
as obedient children, not conformed to the former passions of the days of your ignorance:
but as he who hath called you is holy, be ye holy also in all your conduct:
because it is written, “Be ye holy; for I am holy.”
And if ye invoke him as Father, who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man’s work, conduct yourselves during the time of your sojourning with jealous fear:
knowing that ye have not been redeemed out of your vain manner of life, derived traditionally from your fathers, by the corruptible things, silver and gold,
but by the precious blood of Christ, as the unblemished and spotless lamb:
who was indeed predestined before the foundation of the world, but manifested in these last times for us,
who by him believe in God, that raised him from the dead, and gave him glory; that your faith and hope might be in God.
Having purified your souls by obedience to the truth through the Spirit unto fraternal affection undissembled, love each other intensely out of a pure heart:
born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the quickening word of God, and which abideth for ever.
“For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man, as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower of it falleth off:”
but the word of the Lord abideth for ever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you.