AND they came to the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.
And as he was going out of the vessel, immediately there met him a man with an unclean spirit,
coming out of the tombs; who had his abode among the tombs; and no man could secure him, not even with chains;
for he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains were burst asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces, and no man was able to master him:
and continually night and day he was in the mountains, and in the tombs, screaming, and cutting himself with stones.
But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him,
and crying with a loud voice, said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus thou Son of God most high? I adjure thee by God, that thou dost not send me to torment.
(For he had said unto him, Come out, unclean spirit, from the man.)
And he interrogated him, What is thy name? and he replied, saying, Legion is my name; for we are many.
And he entreated him much that he would not send them out of the country.
And a great herd of swine was there feeding on the mountain:
and all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.
And immediately Jesus permitted them. And the unclean spirits going forth, entered into the swine; and the herd rushed violently down a precipice into the sea (they were about two thousand), and were suffocated in the sea.
Then the swineherds fled, and carried the tidings into the city and into the country. And they went out to see what was done.
And they came to Jesus, and saw the demoniac that had the legion, seated and clothed, and in his sound mind: and they were afraid.
And they who saw the transaction, told them how it had been with the demoniac, and concerning the swine.
And they began to entreat him to depart out of their coasts.
And when he embarked on board the vessel, the demoniac besought him, that he might go with him.
But Jesus did not permit him, but said to him, Go to thine house, and to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee.
And he went out, and began to publish in Decapolis, what great things Jesus had done for him: and all men marvelled.
And when Jesus had passed over again in the vessel to the other side, a vast multitude came together unto him; and he was by the sea side.
And, behold, there cometh to him one of the rulers of the synagogue, named Jairus; and seeing him, fell at his feet,
and entreated him importunately, saying, My little daughter is at the last gasp; wilt thou come, and lay thy hands upon her, that she may recover, and she shall live.
And he went with him: and there followed him a great crowd, and they thronged him.
And a certain woman, having a flux of blood twelve years,
and had suffered much from many physicians; and had expended all she had, and was nothing better, but rather growing worse and worse;
when she heard of Jesus, came in the crowd behind him, and touched his garment:
for she said, If I but touch his clothes, I shall recover.
And instantly the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was cured of her afflictive disease.
And Jesus immediately perceiving in himself that miraculous power had gone forth from him, turning about in the crowd, said, Who touched my garments?
And his disciples said to him, Thou seest the crowd thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
And he looked round to see her who had done this.
Then the woman, fearful and trembling, knowing what had been done in her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.
And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace, and be whole from thy distressing disease.
And while he was yet speaking, they came from the ruler of the synagogue’s house, saying, Thy daughter is dead; why dost thou trouble the master any further?
But Jesus, instantly hearing the account given, said to the ruler of the synagogue, Fear not, only believe.
And he permitted no person to follow him, but Peter, and James, and John a brother of James.
And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and seeth the confusion, as they were greatly lamenting and making loud moanings.
And entering in he saith, Why make ye this uproar, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.
And they derided him; but he thrusting them all out, took the father and the mother of the maiden, and those who were with him, and went in where the damsel was laid out.
And taking the hand of the damsel, he saith unto her, Talitha cumi! which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise!
And immediately the damsel arose and walked about, for she was twelve years old. And they were astonished with vast astonishment.
And he very strongly charged them that no person should know it; and ordered something to be given her to eat.