The priests, the Levites, all the tribe of Levi, shall have no part nor inheritance with Israel. They shall eat the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and His inheritance.
Therefore they shall have no inheritance among their brothers. The LORD is their inheritance, as He has said to them.
And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from those that offer a sacrifice, whether ox or sheep. And they shall give to the priest the shoulder and the two cheeks, and the stomach.
You shall give him the first-fruit of your grain, of your wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep.
For the LORD your God has chosen him out of all your tribes, to stand to minister in the name of the LORD, him and his sons forever.
And if a Levite comes from any of your gates out of all Israel, where he lived, and come with all the desire of his mind to the place which the LORD shall choose,
then he shall minister in the name of the LORD his God, as all his brothers and Levites who stand there before the LORD.
They shall have the same portions to eat, besides that of the sales of the inheritance from his father.
When you come to the land which the LORD your God gives you, you shall not learn to do according to the abominations of those nations.
There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that uses divination, an observer of clouds, or a fortune-teller, or a witch,
or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or one who calls to the dead.
For all that do these things are an abomination to the LORD. And because of these abominations the LORD your God drives them out from before you.
You shall be perfect with the LORD your God.
For these nations whom you shall possess listened to observers of clouds and to diviners. But as for you, the LORD your God has not allowed you to do so.
The LORD your God will raise up to you a Prophet from the midst of you, of your brothers, One like me. To Him you shall listen,
according to all that you desired of the LORD your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying: Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, so that I do not die.
And the LORD said to me, They have spoken well what they have spoken.
I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brothers, one like you, and will put My words in His mouth. And He shall speak to them all that I shall command Him.
And it shall happen, whatever man will not listen to My words which He shall speak in My name, I will require it of him.
But the prophet who shall presume to speak a word in My name which I have not commanded him to speak or who shall speak in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die.
And if you say in your heart, How shall we know the word which the LORD has not spoken?
When a prophet speaks in the name of the LORD, if the thing does not follow nor come to pass, that is the thing which the LORD has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You shall not be afraid of him.