And while fulfilling the day of Pentecost, they were all together at the same place.
And suddenly there developed a sound from the sky as of a forceful wind moving, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting.
And there appeared to them dividing tongues, as of fire, and they settled upon each one of them.
And they were all filled of the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them to declare.
Now there were dwelling at Jerusalem, Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven.
And the sound of this that happened brought the multitude together. And it was bewildered because each one heard them speaking in his own language.
And they were amazed and marveled, saying to each other, Behold, are not all these men who speak Galileans?
And how do we each hear our own language in which we were born?
Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and those dwelling in Mesopotamia, and Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
and Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya along Cyrene, and those Roman aliens, including Jews and proselytes,
Cretes and Arabians. We hear them speaking in our tongues the great things of God.
And they were all amazed, and were perplexed, others saying to others, Whatever does this intend to be?
But others, mocking said, They are filled of wine.
But Peter having stood up with the eleven, raised his voice and spoke out to them, saying, Jewish men, and all who dwell at Jerusalem, be this known to you, and listen to my sayings.
For these men are not drunken, as ye suppose, for it is the third hour of the day.
But this is that which was spoken through the prophet Joel:
And it will be in the last days, says God, I will pour out from my Spirit upon all flesh. And your sons and your daughters will prophesy, and your young men will see visions, and your elders will dream dreams.
And also on my bondmen and on my bondmaids in those days I will pour out from my Spirit, and they will prophesy.
And I will give wonders in the heaven above, and signs on the earth beneath, blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke.
The sun will be changed into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great and wonderful day of the Lord comes.
And it will be, that every man, whoever may call on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Men, Israelites, hear ye these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man shown by God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know,
this man, having been designated (by the purpose and foreknowledge of God) a man delivered up, ye, having taken by lawless hands, killed, having crucified,
whom God raised up, having loosed the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it.
For David speaks for him: I beheld the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, so that I may not be moved.
Because of this my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was glad. And moreover my flesh will also rest in hope.
Because thou will not leave my soul in Hades, nor will thou give thy Holy man to see decay.
Thou made known to me the paths of life. Thou will fill me of joy with thy countenance.
Men, brothers, being permitted to speak to you with openness about the patriarch David, that he both perished and was buried, and his sepulcher is with us to this day.
Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, to raise the Christ from the fruit of his loins according to flesh to sit upon his throne.
Having foreseen this, he spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that his soul was not left behind in Hades, nor did his flesh see decay.
This Jesus, God raised up, of which we are all witnesses.
Therefore, exalted by the right hand of God, and having received the promise of the Holy Spirit from the Father, he poured out this that ye now see and hear.
For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand
until I place thine enemies a footstool of thy feet.
Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God has made him, this Jesus whom ye crucified, both Lord and Christ.
Now having heard this, they were pierced in the heart, and said to Peter and the other apostles, Men, brothers, what will we do?
And Peter said to them, Repent ye, and be immersed each of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all those in afar, as many as the Lord our God may call.
And with many more other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this crooked generation.
Indeed therefore those who received his word gladly, were immersed. And there were added in that day about three thousand souls.
And they were continuing steadfastly in the apostles doctrine, and in fellowship, and in the breaking of bread, and the prayers.
And fear developed in every soul. And many wonders and signs occurred through the apostles.
And all who believed were together, and had all things common.
And they sold properties and possessions, and divided them to all, according as any man had need.
And continuing steadfastly, daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they partook of nourishment in gladness and evenness of heart,
praising God, and having favor with the whole populace. And the Lord was adding to the church daily those being saved.