MY brethren, be not many teachers, knowing that we shall receive a severer judgment.
For in many things we all offend. If any man offend not in word, he is a perfect man, and capable of reining in the whole body.
Behold, we put bits into the horses’ mouths, that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body.
Behold also the ships, though so great, and driven by tempestuous winds, are turned about by the smallest rudder, whithersoever the inclination of the pilot pleaseth.
So also the tongue is a little member, and proudly vaunts. Behold how great a pile of wood, a little fire kindleth!
And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity: in such manner is the tongue placed among our members, that it defileth all the body, and setteth on fire the circle of nature; and is set on fire of hell.
For every species of wild beasts, and also of birds, of reptiles, and even of fishes, is tamed, and hath also been tamed by human ingenuity:
but the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison.
With it we bless God even the Farther; and with the same we curse men, though after the likeness of God.
Out of the same mouth goeth forth blessing and cursing. These things, my brethren, ought not to be thus.
Doth a fountain from the same aperture spout forth sweet water and bitter?
Can a fig-tree, my brethren, produce olives; or a vine figs? so also can no fountain send forth salt water and sweet.
Who is a wise man and intelligent among you, let him shew in a becoming conduct his works with the meekness of wisdom.
But if ye have bitter envy and contention in your heart, boast not, and lie not against the truth.
This is not the wisdom which cometh from above, but is earthly, sensual, diabolical.
For where envy and contention dwell, there is tumult and every vile deed.
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, meek, easily persuadable, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial, and void of dissimulation.
But the fruit of righteousness in peace is sown for those who are peacemakers.