If, then, you were raised with Christ, seek the things above, where Christ is sitting at the right of God; Psa. 110:1
mind the things above, not the things on the earth,
For you died, and your life has been hidden with Christ in God.
Whenever Christ our life is revealed, then also you will be revealed with Him in glory.
Then put to death your members which are on the earth: fornication; uncleanness; passion; evil lust; and covetousness, which is idolatry;
on account of which things the wrath of God is coming on the sons of disobedience,
among whom you also walked at one time, when you were living in these.
But now, you also, put off all these things: wrath, anger, malice, evil-speaking, shameful speech out of your mouth.
Do not lie to one another, having put off the old man with his practices,
and having put on the new, having been renewed in full knowledge according to the image of the One creating him,
where there is no Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, foreigner, Scythian, slave or freeman, but Christ is all things and in all.
Then put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved, tender feelings of compassions, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering,
bearing with one another and forgiving yourselves, if anyone has a complaint against any; even as Christ forgave you, so also you should forgive .
And above all these, add love, which is the bond of perfectness.
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which you also were called in one body, and be thankful.
Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom teaching and exhorting yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.
And everything, whatever you do in word or in work, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father through Him.
Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as is becoming in the Lord.
Husbands, love the wives and do not be bitter against them.
Children, obey the parents in all things, for this is pleasing to the Lord.
Fathers, do not provoke your children, that they may not be disheartened.
Slaves, obey the lords according to flesh in all respects, not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
And whatever you may do, work from the soul as to the Lord and not to men,
knowing that from the Lord you shall receive the reward of the inheritance. For you serve the Lord Christ.
But the one doing wrong will receive what he did wrong, and there is no respect of persons.