Whoever loves instruction loves knowledge: but he that hates reproof is brutish.
A good man obtains favor of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.
A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that makes ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
He that is despised, and has a servant, is better than he that honors himself, and lacks bread.
A righteous man regards the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He that tills his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that follows vain persons is void of understanding.
The wicked desires the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yields fruit.
The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompense of a man’s hands shall be rendered to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that listens to counsel is wise.
A fool’s wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covers shame.
He that speaks truth shows forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.
There is that speaks like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.
The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight.
A prudent man conceals knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaims foolishness.
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute.
Heaviness in the heart of man makes it stoop: but a good word makes it glad.
The righteous is more excellent than his neighbor: but the way of the wicked seduces them.
The slothful man roasts not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious.
In the way of righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof there is no death.