THEN drew nigh unto him all the tax-farmers and the sinners to hear him.
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man entertains sinners, and eateth with them.
Then spake he unto them this parable, saying,
What man is there of you, possessing an hundred sheep, though he lose but one of them, will he not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?
and when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And coming home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Congratulate me; for I have found that sheep of mine which was lost.
I tell you, that just so will there be joy in heaven over one repentant sinner, more than over ninety-nine righteous persons, who hold not their need of repentance.
Or what woman having ten pieces of silver coin, if she lose one of them, doth she not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and make diligent search until she find it?
And having found it, she calleth her female friends and neighbours together, saying, Congratulate me; for I have found the silver piece I had lost.
Even so, I tell you, there is joy among the angels of God, over one repentant sinner.
Then he said, A certain man had two sons:
and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of substance which falls to my share. And he divided with them his fortune.
And not many days after, the younger son, collecting his all, travelled into a far distant country, and there dissipated his substance in a life of debauchery.
But when he had spent all, there came a terrible famine in that region; and he began to know want.
And he went and connected himself with one of the citizens of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
And he eagerly longed to fill his belly with the charob berries which the swine did eat: and no person gave him a morsel.
Then coming to himself, he said, How many hirelings of my father abound with loaves of bread, and I am pining away with famine!
I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee,
and I am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hirelings.
And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet at a considerable distance, his father discovered him, and was moved with compassion, and running, fell on his neck, and kissed him again and again.
Then said the son unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.
But the father said to his servants, Bring out the best robe, and clothe him; and put a ring on his hand, and sandals on his feet:
and bring hither the stall-fed steer, and kill it; and let us eat, and be joyous.
For this my son was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found. And they began to be joyous.
Now his elder brother had been in the field: and when coming home he drew near the house, he heard a concert of music, and the chorus.
And calling one of the servants, he inquired what these things meant.
And he said, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed for him the stall-fed steer, because he hath received him in health.
Then he was in great wrath, and would not enter the doors: therefore his father came out, and entreated him.
But he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years I am serving thee, and never have transgressed thy command: yet to me thou hast never once given a kid, that I might make merry with my friends:
but no sooner is this son of thine come, who hath devoured thy substance with whores, than thou hast killed for him the stall-fed steer.
And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all my possessions are thine.
But it was right that we should rejoice, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.