And He began to speak to them by parables. A man planted a vineyard, and set a fence about it, and dug a wine-vat, and built a tower, and he let it out to vinedressers, and went away.
And at the season he sent a servant to the vinedressers, so that he might receive from the vinedressers the fruit of the vineyard.
And taking him, they beat him and sent him away empty.
And again he sent to them another servant. And stoning that one, they struck him in the head, and sent him away, insulting him.
And again he sent another. And they killed him, and many others, beating some and killing some.
Therefore, still having one son, his own beloved, he also sent him to them last of all, saying, They will respect my son.
But those vinedressers said among themselves, This is the heir! Come, let us kill him and the inheritance shall be ours.
And they took him and killed him and cast him out of the vineyard.
Therefore what will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vinedressers and will give the vineyard to others.
And have you not read this scripture " The Stone which the builders rejected has become the Head of the corner:
this was from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes"?
And they sought to seize him, but feared the crowd. For they knew that He spoke the parable against them. And leaving Him, they went away.
And they sent certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians to Him, to catch Him in His words.
And coming, they said to Him, Teacher, we know that you are true and you care about no one. For you do not look to the face of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
Shall we give, or shall we not give? But knowing their hypocrisy, He said to them, Why do you tempt Me? Bring me a denarius so that I may see.
And they brought it. And He said to them, Whose image and inscription is this? And they said to Him, Caesar's.
And answering Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marvelled at Him.
Then the Sadducees came to Him, who say there is no resurrection. And they asked Him, saying,
Teacher, Moses wrote to us, If a man's brother die and leaves his wife, and leaves no children, his brother should take his wife and raise up seed to his brother.
And there were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.
And the second took her, and died; neither did he leave any seed. And the third likewise.
And the seven had her, and left no seed. Last of all the woman also died.
In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as a wife.
And answering Jesus said to them, Do you not err because of this, not knowing Scriptures, nor the power of God?
For when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but they are as the angels in Heaven.
And as regards the dead, that they rise, have you not read in the book of Moses how God spoke to him in the Bush, saying, "I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob?"
He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. Therefore you greatly err.
And coming up one of the scribes heard them reasoning, knowing that He had answered them well, he asked Him, Which is the first commandment of all?
And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, "Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord;
and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength." This is the first commandment.
And the second is like this: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these.
And the scribe said to Him, Right, Teacher, according to truth You have spoken, that God is one, and there is no other besides Him.
And to love Him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love the neighbor as himself, is more than all the burnt offerings and sacrifices.
And seeing that he had answered intelligently, Jesus said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And no one dared to question Him any more.
And answering, teaching in the temple, Jesus said, How do the scribes say that Christ is the Son of David?
For David himself said by the Holy Spirit: "The LORD said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I place Your enemies as Your footstool."
David therefore himself calls Him Lord, and why then is He his son? And the great crowd heard Him gladly.
And He said to them in His teaching, Beware of the scribes, who love to walk about in robes, and love greetings in the markets,
and the chief seats in the synagogues, and the uppermost places at feasts
who devour widows' houses, and as a pretense make long prayers. These shall receive greater condemnation.
And sitting down opposite the treasury, Jesus watched how the people threw copper coins into the treasury. And many rich ones threw in much.
And a certain poor widow came, and she threw in two lepta, which is a kodrantes.
And He called His disciples and said to them, Truly I say to you that this poor widow has cast in more than all those who have cast into the treasury.
For all cast in from their abundance. But she, out of her poverty, has cast in all that she had, all her livelihood.