And the Pharisees and certain of the Scribes who have come from Jerusalem gather themselves together unto him;
and, observing certain of his disciples, that, with defiled hands, that is unwashed, they are eating bread,——
For, the Pharisees, and all the Jews, unless with care they wash their hands, eat not, holding fast the tradition of the elders;
and coming from market, unless they sprinkle themselves, they eat not,—and, many other things, there are, which they have accepted to hold fast—immersions of cups and measures and copper vessels——
and so the Pharisees and the Scribes, question, him—For what cause do thy disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but, with defiled hands, eat bread?
But, he, said unto them—Well, prophesied Isaiah concerning you, ye hypocrites, as it is written—This people, with the lips do honour me, while, their heart, far off, holdeth from me,—
But, in vain, do they pay devotions unto me, teaching for teachings, the commandments of men;
Having, dismissed, the commandment, of God, ye, hold fast, the tradition, of men.
And he was saying to them—Well, do ye set aside the commandment of God, that, your own tradition, ye may observe;
For, Moses, said—Honour thy father and thy mother, and—He that revileth father or mother, let him, surely die,—
But, ye, say—If a man shall say to his father or his mother, Korban! that is, A gift, whatsoever, out of me, thou mightest be profited,
no longer, do ye suffer him to do, aught, for his father or his mother,—
cancelling the word of God by your tradition which ye have delivered. And, many such similar things, are ye doing!
And, again calling near the multitude, he was saying unto them—Hearken to me, all! and understand:
Nothing, is there, from without the man, entering into him, which can defile him; but, the things which, out of the man, come forth, are the things that defile the man.

And, when he entered into a house from the multitudes, his disciples began to question him as to the parable;
And he saith unto them—Thus, are, ye also, without discernment? Perceive ye not that, nothing, from without, entering into the man, can defile him;
because it entereth not into his heart, but into his stomach, and, into the draught, is passed—purifying all foods?
And he was saying—That which, out of the man, cometh forth, that, defileth the man;
For, from within, out of the heart of men, the base designs, come forth,—fornications, thefts,
murders, adulteries, covetousnesses, knaveries, deceit, wantonness, an evil eye, profane speaking, foolishness,—
all these wicked things, from within, come forth, and defile, the man.
And, from thence arising, he departed into the bounds of Tyre [and Zidon]. And, entering into a house, he was wishing, no one, to know it, and yet could not escape notice,—
but, straightway, a woman hearing about him, whose daughter had an impure spirit, she came and fell down at his feet.
Now, the woman, was a Grecian, a Syrophoenician by race,—and she was requesting him that, the demon, he would cast forth out of her daughter.
And he was saying to her—Suffer, the children, first, to be fed; for it is not seemly to take the bread of the children, and, unto the little dogs, to cast it;
but she answered and saith to him—Yea, Lord! and yet, the little dogs under the table, do eat of the crumbs of the children;
and he said to her—Because of this word, go thy way, the demon hath gone forth out of thy daughter;
and, departing unto her house, she found the child laid prostrate on the couch, and the demon gone forth.
And, again coming forth out of the bounds of Tyre, he came unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the bounds of Decapolis.
And they bring to him one deaf and stammering, and beseech him that he would lay upon him his hand.
And, taking him away from the multitude apart, he thrust his fingers into his ears, and, spitting, touched his tongue;
and, looking up into the heaven, sighed deeply, and saith unto him—Ephphatha! that is, Be opened!
and his ears opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed,—and he was speaking correctly.
And he charged them that they should be telling, no one,—but, as much as to them he gave charge, they, exceeding more abundantly, were making proclamation.
And, superabundantly, were they being struck with astonishment, saying—Well, hath he, all things, done,—both, the deaf, he causeth to hear, and, the dumb, to speak.