And it happened in the time Apollos was at Corinth, Paul was passing through the higher parts to Ephesus. And finding certain disciples,
he said to them, Have you received the Holy Spirit since you believed? And they said to him, We did not so much as hear whether the Holy Spirit is.
And he said to them, Then to what were you baptized? And they said, To John's baptism.
And Paul said, John truly baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe into Him coming after him, that is, into Jesus Christ.
And hearing, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And as Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied.
And all of the men were about twelve.
And going into the synagogue, he spoke boldly for three months, reasoning and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God.
But when some were hardened and did not believe, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he departed from them and separated the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of one Tyrannus.
And this happened over two years, so that all those living in Asia heard the Word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
And God did works of power through the hands of Paul,
so that even handkerchiefs or aprons from his skin being brought onto the sick, the diseases were released, and the evil spirits went out of them.
And certain from the strolling Jews, exorcists, undertook to name the name of the Lord Jesus over those having evil spirits, saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches.
And there were seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, who did so.
But answering the evil spirit said, Jesus I know, and I comprehend Paul, but who are you?
And the man in whom the evil spirit resided leaped on them, and overcoming them he was strong against them, so that they fled out of the house naked and wounded.
And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks who lived at Ephesus, and fear fell on all of them, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
And many who believed came and confessed and showed their deeds.
Also many of those practicing the curious arts, bringing together the books, burned them before all. And they counted the prices of them and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.
So the Word of God grew mightily and prevailed.
After these things were ended, passing through Macedonia and Achaia, Paul purposed in the spirit to go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have come there, I must also see Rome.
And sending into Macedonia two who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, he stayed in Asia for a time.
And about that time there was no little a stir about the Way.
For a certain silversmith named Demetrius was making silver temples of Artemis, providing not a little trade for the craftsmen.
And assembling the workmen about such things, he said, Men, you know that from this trade is our wealth.
And you see and hear that, not only at Ephesus, but almost all Asia, this Paul having persuaded, he has perverted a huge crowd, saying that those which are made with hands are no gods.
And not only is this dangerous to us, our share coming into dispute, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be counted for nothing, and her magnificence is also about to be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worships.
And hearing, and becoming full of anger, they cried out, saying, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians.
And all the city was filled with confusion. And they rushed with one accord to the theater, keeping a firm grip on Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, traveling companions of Paul.
And Paul intending to go in to the mob, the disciples did not allow him.
And some of the chief men of Asia, being his friends, sent to him, begging him not to give himself into the theater.
Then indeed others cried out, some other things; for the assembly was confused, and most of them did not know why they had come together.
And they dragged Alexander forward out of the crowd, the Jews thrusting him forward. And waving his hand Alexander desired to defend himself to the mob.
But when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice cried out for two hours' time, Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!
And quieting the crowd, the town clerk said, Men, Ephesians! What one of you does not know that the city of the Ephesians is a worshiper of the great goddess Artemis, and of That Fallen from the Sky?
Since these things cannot be spoken against, you ought to be quiet and to do nothing rashly.
For you have brought these men, who are neither robbers of churches nor blasphemers of your goddess.
Therefore if Demetrius and those craftsmen with him truly have a matter against anyone, the court days are kept, and there are proconsuls. Let them plead against one another.
But if you ask anything concerning other matters, it shall be determined in a lawful assembly.
For we are in danger to be accused of revolt concerning today; there being no cause by which we may give an account of this crowding together.
And saying these things, he dismissed the assembly.