And the people were as murmurers, speaking evil in the ears of Jehovah. And when Jehovah heard it, his anger was kindled, and the fire of Jehovah burnt among them, and devoured in the outermost part of the camp.
And the people cried to Moses. And Moses prayed to Jehovah, and the fire abated.
And the name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of Jehovah burnt among them.
And the mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly. And the sons of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?
We remember the fish which we ate in Egypt for nothing, the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic,
but now our soul is dried away. There is nothing at all except this manna to look upon.
And the manna was like coriander seed, and the appearance of it as the appearance of bdellium.
The people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it. And the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.
And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it.
And Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent. And the anger of Jehovah was kindled greatly, and Moses was displeased.
And Moses said to Jehovah, Why have thou dealt ill with thy servant? And why have I not found favor in thy sight, that thou lay the burden of all this people upon me?
Have I conceived all this people? Have I brought them forth, that thou should say to me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nurturing father carries the sucking child, to the land which thou swore to their fathers?
From where should I have flesh to give to all this people? For they weep to me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.
I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me.
And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou know to be the elders of the people and officers over them. And bring them to the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with thee.
And I will come down and talk with thee there. And I will take of the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them, and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou not bear it thyself alone.
And say thou to the people, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, and ye shall eat flesh, for ye have wept in the ears of Jehovah, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? For it was well with us in Egypt. Therefore Jehovah will give you flesh, and ye shall eat.
Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days,
but a whole month, until it comes out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome to you, because ye have rejected Jehovah who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why did we come forth out of Egypt?
And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen, and thou have said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
Shall flocks and herds be slain for them, to suffice them? Or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them?
And Jehovah said to Moses, Is Jehovah's hand grown short? Now thou shall see whether my word shall come to pass to thee or not.
And Moses went out, and told the people the words of Jehovah. And he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the tent.
And Jehovah came down in the cloud, and spoke to him, and took of the spirit that was upon him, and put it upon the seventy elders. And it came to pass, that, when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, but they did so no more.
But there remained two men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad. And the spirit rested upon them. And they were of those who were written, but had not gone out to the tent. And they prophesied in the camp.
And a young man ran, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
And Moses said to him, Are thou jealous for my sake? Would that all of Jehovah's people were prophets, that Jehovah would put his spirit upon them!
And Moses went into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
And there went forth a wind from Jehovah, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day's journey on this side, and a day's journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about two cubits above the face of the earth.
And the people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails. He who gathered least gathered ten homers. And they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.
While the flesh was yet between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of Jehovah was kindled against the people, and Jehovah smote the people with a very great plague.
And the name of that place was called Kibrothhattaavah, because there they buried the people who lusted.
From Kibrothhattaavah the people journeyed to Hazeroth, and they abode at Hazeroth.