But, concerning the spiritually gifted, brethren, I am not wishing you to be ignorant.
Ye know that, when ye were of the nations, unto the dumb idols, howsoever ye were being led, ye were seduced.
Wherefore, I give you to know—that, no one, in God’s Spirit speaking, saith—Accursed Jesus! and, no one, can say—Lord Jesus! save in [the] Holy Spirit.
But, distributions of gifts, there are, yet the same Spirit,
And, distributions of ministries, there are, and the same Lord,
And, distributions of energies, there are, and the same God—who energiseth all things in all.
But, unto each one, is given the manifesting of the Spirit, with a view to that which is profitable;
For, unto one, indeed, through the Spirit, is given, a word of wisdom, but, unto another, a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;—
Unto a different one, faith, in the same Spirit, and, unto another, gifts of healings, in the one Spirit,
And, unto another, energies of mighty works, [and], unto another, prophesying, [and], unto another, discriminations of spirits,—unto a different one, kinds of tongues, and, unto another, translation of tongues;—
But, all these, energiseth the one and the same Spirit, distributing unto each one, peculiarly, even as it is disposed.
For, just as, the body, is one, and yet hath many members, but, all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so, also, the Christ;—
For, even to one Spirit, we all, into one body, have been immersed,—whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free,—and, all, of one Spirit, have been caused to drink.
For, the body also, is not one member, but many:
Though the foot should say—Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body, Is it, therefore, not, of the body?
And, though the ear should say—Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, Is it, therefore, not, of the body?
If, the whole body, were, an eye, where were the hearing? If, the whole were, hearing, where were, the smelling?
But, now, hath God set the members, each one of them in the body, even as he pleased.
But, if they all had been one member, Where had been, the body?
Now, however there are many members, yet one body;
[And] the eye cannot say unto the hand—I have no need of thee,—nor, again, the head, unto the feet—I have no need of you:—
Nay! much more, the members which seem to be weaker are necessary,
And, the parts of the body which we deem to be less honourable, on these, more abundant honour, do we bestow, and, our uncomely parts, have, more abundant comeliness,
Whereas, our comely parts, have, no need. But, God, hath tempered the body together,—unto that which was lacking, giving more abundant honour;—
That there might be no division in the body, but that the members might have, the same, care, one for another;
And, whether one member, suffereth, all the members, suffer with it, or, a member is glorified, all the members, rejoice together.
Now, ye, are the body of Christ, and members severally;—
And God hath, indeed, set, certain, in the assembly,—first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, after that mighty works, then gifts of healings, helps, guidings, kinds of tongues.
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all mighty works?
Have, all, gifts of healings? Do, all, with tongues, speak? Do, all, translate?
Be envious, however, of the greater gifts; and, yet, a much more excellent way, unto you, I point out:—