Since, then, Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, do you also arm yourselves with the same determination; for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,
so that he no longer lives the rest of his time in the flesh, according to the desires of men, but according to the will of God.
For the time past of our life should be enough for us to have worked the will of the Gentiles, while we walked in licentiousness, lusts, drunkenness, revelings, drinkings, and unlawful idolatries.
They are amazed at this―that you run not with them into the same excess of debauchery, and they revile you.
These shall give an account to him that is ready to judge the living and the dead.
For this cause, indeed, even those who have died had the gospel preached to them, that though they might be judged according to the will of men in the flesh, yet they might live according to the will of God in the spirit.
But the end of all things is at hand; be sober-minded, therefore, and watchful, that you may pray.
But, above all things, have fervent love one for another; for love will cover a multitude of sins.
Be hospitable, one to another, without murmuring.
As each has received a gift, minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
If any man speaks, let him speak as the oracles of God: if any man acts as a deacon, let him do this as from the strength which God supplies; that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory and strength from age to age. Amen.
Beloved, be not amazed at the fiery trial that has come on you to try you, as if some strange thing had happened to you.
But, inasmuch as you are partakers of the sufferings of the Christ,, rejoice, that, at the revelation of his glory, you may also be exceedingly joyful.
If you are reproached on account of Christ, happy are you: for the glorious Spirit of God rests upon you. On their part he is reviled, but on your part he is glorified:
for no one of you should suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evil-doer, or as a busybody in other men’s matters.
But if any one suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this account.
For the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God; and if it begin first at us, what shall be the end of those who obey not the gospel of God?
And if the righteous man is hardly saved, where shall the ungodly man and the sinner appear?
Wherefore, let those also who suffer according to the will of God, by doing good, commit their souls to him as to a faithful Creator.