There was a man in the land of Uz, his name was Job. And this man was perfect and upright, and fearing God, and turning away from evil.
And seven sons and three daughters were born to him.
And his possessions were seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she-asses, and a very great household, so that this man was greater than all the sons of the east.
And his sons feasted in the house of each one on his day. And they sent and called their three sisters to eat and to drink with them.
And it happened, when the day of feasting had gone around, Job would send and sanctify them. And he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt sacrifices according to all their number. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. This Job always did.
And a day came when the sons of God came to present themselves before Jehovah. And Satan also came among them.
And Jehovah said to Satan, From where have you come? And Satan answered Jehovah and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.
And Jehovah said to Satan, Have you set your heart on My servant Job because there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and upright man, fearing God and turning away from evil?
And Satan answered Jehovah and said, Does Job fear God for nothing?
Have You not made a hedge for him, and for his house, and for all that is his all around? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his livestock have increased in the land.
But put out Your hand now, and touch against all that is his, and see if he will not then curse You to Your face.
And Jehovah said to Satan, Behold, all that is his is in your hand! Only, do not lay your hand on him. And Satan went out from the face of Jehovah.
And a day came when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their brother's house, the first-born.
And a messenger came to Job and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses were feeding beside them.
And the Sabeans fell on , and took them away. And they killed the young men with the edge of the sword; and I, I alone have escaped to tell you.
While this one was still speaking, this other also came and said, The fire of God has fallen from the heavens and has burned up the sheep and the young men. And it has destroyed them; and I, I alone have escaped to tell you.
While this one was still speaking, this other also came and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands and swooped down on the camels. And they have taken them away. And they have killed the young men with the edge of the sword; and I, I alone have escaped to tell you.
While this one was still speaking, this other came and said, Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their brother, the first-born,
And, behold! A great wind came from the wilderness and touched the four corners of the house. And it fell on the young men and they died; and I, I alone have escaped to tell you.
And Job rose up and tore his robe, and shaved his head. And he fell down on the ground and worshiped.
And he said, I came naked out of my mother's womb, and naked I shall return there. Jehovah gave, and Jehovah has taken away. Blessed be the name of Jehovah.
In all this Job did not sin, nor charge wrong to God.