And it came to pass in the eleventh year, on the first of the month, that the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man, Because Tyre hath said concerning Jerusalem. Aha! She is broken that was the doors of the peoples. She is turned unto me,— I shall be filled, She is laid waste,
Therefore, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Behold me! against thee O Tyre,— So then I will bring up against thee many nations, As the sea bringeth up its rolling waves;
And they shall destroy the walls of Tyre. And break down her towers, And I will scrape clean her dust from off her, —And make of her the glaring face of a cliff:
A place for the spreading of nets, shall she become, in the midst of the sea, For, I, have spoken Declareth My Lord. Yahweh,-And she shall become a prey to the nations.
And her daughters that are in the field: with the sword shall be slain: So shall they know that I am Yahweh.
For thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, Behold me! bringing against Tyre. Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon out of the North. a king of kings,—with horses and with chariots and with horsemen, and a gathered host, and much people.
Thy daughters in the field—with the sword, shall he slay,- And shall set against thee a siege-wall And cast up against thee an earthwork, And set up against thee a large shield;
And the stroke of his attacking-engine, will he direct against thy walls,— And thy towers, will he break down with his axes.
By reason of the multitude of his horses, their dust shall cover thee,— At the noise of horseman and wheel and chariot, shall thy walls tremble, when he entereth into thy gates Just as they do who enter a city broken open.
With the hoofs of his horses, shall he tread down all thy streets,— Thy people-with the sword, shall he slay, And thy pillars of strength to the earth, shall go down.
And they shall spoil thy wealth And make a prey of thy merchandise, And break down thy walls And thy pleasant houses, shall they lay in ruins; And thy stones and thy timber and thy dust—in the midst of the waters, shall they lay.
And I will cause to cease the hum of thy songs; And the sound of thy lyres, shall not be heard any more.
And I will make of thee the glaring face of a cliff. A place for the spreading of nets, shalt thou become, Thou shalt not be but any more, For I. Yahweh have spoken it, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh, to Tyre: Shall it not be that. At the sound of thy fall. With the groan of thy pierced one. With the slaughter made in thy midst, The Coastlands shall tremble?
Then shall come down from off their thrones all the princes of the sea, And shall lay aside their robes. And their embroidered garments, shall strip off,— With tremblings, shall they clothe them. selves Upon the ground, shall they sit, And shall tremble every moment and be astonished over thee.
Then shall they take up over thee a dirge, And say to thee,- How hast thou perished, And ceased from the seas,- The city renowned which was strong in the sea She and they who dwelt in her, Who imparted their terror To all who dwelt in her.
Now, shall tremble the Coastlands, In the day of thy fall,- And shall shudder the isles that are in the sea. At thine exit!
For thus saith My Lord Yahweh, When I make thee a desolate city, Like cities which cannot be dwelt in,- When I bring up over thee the roaring deep, And the mighty waters cover thee,
Then will I bring thee down with them that go down into the pit. Unto the people of age-past times And cause thee to dwell in the earth below Among the desolations from age-past times With them that go down into the pit That thou mayest not be dwelt in, Nor yet present thyself in the land of the living.
A terror, will I make thee And thou shalt not be: Though thou be sought for, Thou shalt not be found any more To times age-abiding, Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.