but, Jesus, went unto the Mount of Olives.
And, early in the morning, again, came he into the temple, and all the people were coming unto him; and, sitting down, he began to teach them.
And the Scribes and the Pharisees bring a woman, caught, in adultery; and, setting her in the midst,
they say unto him—Teacher! this woman, hath been caught in the very act of committing adultery!
Now, in the law, Moses, [unto us] gave command to stone, such as these. What, then, dost, thou, say?
[This, however, they were saying, by way of testing him,—that they might have whereof to accuse him.] But, Jesus, stooping down, with his finger, wrote in the ground.
When, however, they still continued questioning him, he lifted himself up and said [unto them]—He of you, that is without sin, let him first cast at her a stone;
and, again stooping down, he wrote in the ground.
And, they who heard, began to go out, one by one, beginning from the elders,—and he was left, alone; the woman also, being, in the midst.
And lifting himself up, Jesus said unto her—Woman, where are they? Hath, no one, condemned thee?
And, she, said—No one, Sir! And Jesus said—Neither do, I, condemn thee,—be going thy way: Henceforth, be sinning, no more.]]
Again, therefore, unto them, spake Jesus, saying—I, am the light of the world: He that followeth me, shall in nowise walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
The Pharisees, therefore, said unto him—Thou, concerning thyself, bearest witness: thy witness, is not true.
Jesus answered, and said unto them—Even though, I, bear witness concerning myself, true, is my witness, because I know whence I came, and whither I go; but, ye, know not whence I come, and whither I go.
Ye, according to the flesh, do judge: I, am judging no one.
And, even if, I, am judging, my judging, is, genuine,—because, alone, am I not, but, I, and the Father who sent me;
And, in your own law, it is written, that, two men’s witness, is, true:
I, am the one bearing witness of myself, and the Father who sent me is bearing witness concerning me.
They were saying unto him, therefore—Where, is thy father? Jesus answered—Neither, me, do ye know, nor yet my Father: If, me, ye had known, my Father also, had ye known.
These sayings, spake he in the treasury, teaching in the temple, and yet, no one, seized him, because, not yet, had come his hour.
He said unto them again, therefore—I, go, and ye shall seek me,—and yet, in your sin, shall ye die: Whither, I, go, ye, cannot come.
The Jews, therefore, were saying—Can it be that he will kill himself, that he saith, Whither, I, go, ye, cannot come?
And he was saying unto them—Ye, are, of the realms below, I, am, of the realms above: Ye, are, of this world, I, am not of this world.
Therefore said I unto you, Ye shall die in your sins: For, if ye believe not that, I, am he, ye shall die in your sins.
They were saying unto him, therefore—Who art, thou? Jesus said unto them—First and foremost, even what I speak unto you.
Many things, have I, concerning you, to speak, and to judge; but, he who sent me, is, true, and, I, what things I heard from him, the same, speak I unto the world.
They noted not that, as touching the Father, unto them, he was speaking.
Jesus, therefore, said—Whensoever ye shall lift up the Son of Man, then, shall ye know, that, I, am he, and, of myself, am doing, nothing; but, just as the Father taught me, the same things, am I speaking.
And, he that sent me, is, with me: He hath not left me, alone. Because, I, the things that please him, ever do.
As he was speaking these things, many, believed on him.
Jesus was saying, therefore, unto the Jews who had believed on him—If, ye, abide in my word, of a truth, my disciples, ye are;
And ye shall know the truth, and, the truth, shall make you free.
They made answer unto him—Seed of Abraham, are we, and, unto no one, have been brought into bondage, at any time: How sayest, thou, Free, shall ye be made?
Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you: Every one who committeth sin, is, a slave, [of sin:]
Now, the slave, doth not abide in the house, evermore. The Son, abideth, evermore.
If then, the Son, shall make you free, really free, shall ye be.
I know that ye are, seed of Abraham; but ye are seeking to kill me, because, my word, findeth no place in you.
What things, I, have seen with the Father, I am speaking; Ye, also, then, what things ye have heard from your father, are doing.—
They answered and said unto him—Our father, is, Abraham. Jesus saith unto them—If, children of Abraham, ye are, the works of Abraham, are ye doing.
But, now, ye are seeking, to kill me,—A man who, the truth, unto you, hath spoken, which I have heard from God: this, Abraham, did not.
Ye, are doing the works of your father. They said unto him—We, of fornication, were not born: One father, have we—God.
Jesus said unto them—If, God, had been your father, ye had been loving me, for, I, from God, came forth, and am here; for, not even of myself, have I come, but, he, sent me forth.
Wherefore, is it, that, my speech, ye do not understand? because ye cannot hear my word.
Ye, are, of your father—the adversary, and, the covetings of your father, ye choose to be doing. He, was, a murderer, from the beginning, and, in the truth, he stood not; because truth is not in him: Whensoever he speaketh falsehood, of his own, he speaketh; because, false, he is, and, the father of it.
But, as for me, because, the truth, I speak, ye do not believe me.
Which of you convicteth me of sin? If, truth, I speak, wherefore, do, ye, not believe me?
He that is of God, heareth, the sayings of God; therefore, do, ye, not hear, because, of God, ye are not.
The Jews answered, and said unto him—Do, we, not, well, say: Thou, art, a Samaritan, and hast a demon?
Jesus answered—I, have not, a demon, but honour my Father: and, ye, dishonour me.
But, I, seek not my glory: There is one who seeketh and judgeth.
Verily, verily, I say unto you: If anyone shall keep, my word, death, shall he not see, unto times age-abiding.
The Jews said unto him—Now, we know that, a demon, thou hast:—Abraham, died, and, the prophets, and yet, thou, sayest: If anyone shall keep, my word, in nowise shall he taste of death, unto times age-abiding.
Surely, thou, art not, greater, than our father Abraham,—who, indeed, died? and, the prophets, died:—Whom, makest thou thyself?
Jesus answered—If, I, glorify myself, my glory, is nothing: It is, my Father, that glorifieth me,—of whom, ye, say—He is, your God!
And yet ye have not come to know him; but, I, do know him: If I say, I know him not, I shall be like you—false; but I know him, and, his word, am I keeping.
Abraham, your father, exulted that he should see my day; and he saw, and rejoiced.
The Jews, therefore, said unto him—Fifty years old, not yet art thou, and, Abraham, hast thou seen?
Jesus said unto them—Verily, verily, I say unto you: Before, Abraham, came into existence, I, am.
They took up stones, therefore, that they might cast at him; but, Jesus, was hidden, and went forth out of the temple.