And it came to pass, while the multitude was pressing upon him, and was hearing the word of God, that, he, was standing near the lake of Gennesaret;
and he saw two boats placed near the lake, and, the fishers, having gone away, from them, were washing their nets.
And, entering into one of the boats, which was Simon’s, he requested him, to put off from the land, a little; and, taking a seat, out of the boat, began he teaching the multitudes.
And, when he ceased speaking, he said unto Simon—Put off into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.
And Simon, answering, said—Master! although through the whole night we toiled, we took, nothing; howbeit, at thy bidding, I will let down the nets.
And, when this they had done, they enclosed a very large number of fishes, and their nets began to break.
And they made signs to their partners in the other boat, to come and help them; and they came, and filled both the boats,—so that they began to sink.
And Simon, beholding, fell down at the knees of Jesus, saying—Depart from me! Because, a sinful man, am I, O Lord!
For, amazement, overcame him, and all them who were with him, on account of the draught of the fishes which they had taken;
likewise also, both James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon—Do not fear! henceforth, shall thou be taking, men, that they may, live.
And, bringing the boats down on to the land, they left all, and followed him.
And it came to pass, while he was in one of the cities, that lo! there was a man full of leprosy; and, seeing Jesus, he fell on his face, and entreated him, saying—Lord! if thou be willing, thou canst cleanse me.
And, stretching forth the hand, he touched him, saying—I am willing: Be cleansed! And, straightway, the leprosy departed from him.
And, he, charged him to tell, no one,—but, departing, Show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses enjoined, for a witness unto them.
But the report concerning him the more went abroad, and many multitudes were coming together, to hear, and be getting cured from their infirmities;
howbeit, he, was retiring in the deserts, and engaging in prayer.
And it came to pass, on one of the days, that, he, was teaching, and there were sitting Pharisees and Teachers of the law, who had come out of every village of Galilee and Judaea and Jerusalem; and, the power of the Lord, was there, that he might heal.
And lo! men bearing, upon a couch, one who was paralyzed, and they were seeking to bring him in, and lay him before him.
And, not finding by what means they might bring him in, because of the multitude, going up on the house-top, through the tiling, let they him down, with the little-couch, into the midst before Jesus.
And, beholding their faith, he said—O man! thy sins are forgiven thee.
And the Scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying—Who is this that speaketh profanities? Who can forgive, sins, save, God alone?
And Jesus, taking note of their reasonings, answering, said unto them—Why are ye reasoning in your hearts?
Which is easier, To say—Thy sins are forgiven thee; or to say—Arise and be walking?
But, that ye may know that, the Son of Man, hath, authority, upon the earth to forgive sins—he said to the paralyzed man—To thee, I say, Arise, and, taking up thy couch, be going thy way unto thy house.
And, instantly arising before them, he took up that whereon he had been lying, and departed unto his house, glorifying God.
And, astonishment, seized one and all, and they began glorifying God, and were filled with fear, saying—We have seen unaccountable things, to-day!
And, after these things, he went forth, and looked upon a tax-collector, by name Levi,—presiding over the tax-office; and he said to him—Be following me!
And, forsaking all, he arose, and was following him.
And Levi made a great reception for him, in his house, and there was a great multitude of tax-collectors, and others,—who were with them reclining.
And the Pharisees and their Scribes began murmuring unto his disciples, saying—Wherefore, with the tax-collectors and sinners, are ye eating and drinking?
And, answering, Jesus said unto them—No need, have, the whole, of a physician, but, they who are sick.
I have not come to call, righteous, men, but, sinners, unto repentance.
But, they, said unto him—The disciples of John, do fast much, and, supplications, do make,—likewise also the disciples of the Pharisees; but, thine, do eat and drink!
Jesus, however, said unto them—Can, ye make, the sons of the bridechamber, fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
But there will come days, even when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, then, will they fast, in those days.
Moreover, he went on to speak, a parable also, unto them—No one, rending a patch from a new mantle, patcheth it upon an old mantle; otherwise, at least, both, the new, he will rend, and, with the old, the patch which is from the new, will not agree.
And, no one, poureth new wine into old skins; otherwise, at least, the new wine, will burst the skins, and will, itself, be poured out, and the skins be destroyed.
But, new wine, into unused skins, must be poured.
[No one, having drunk old, desireth new; for he saith, The old, is, mellow.]