And when he opened the seventh seal, silence occurred in heaven, like half an hour.
And I saw the seven agents who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
And another agent came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer. And much incense was given to him, so that he would give with the prayers of all the sanctified upon the golden altar before the throne.
And the vapor of the incense, with the prayers of the sanctified, ascended before God out of the agent's hand.
And the agent who took the censer, also filled it from the fire of the altar, and cast it to the earth. And there occurred thunders, and voices, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
And the seven agents who have the seven trumpets prepared themselves so that they might sound.
And the first sounded, and there occurred hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth. And the third part of the earth was burnt up, and the third part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
And the second agent sounded, and something like a great burning mountain was cast into the sea. And the third part of the sea became blood,
and the third part of the creatures in the sea (those having lives) died, and the third part of the ships was destroyed.
And the third agent sounded, and a great star fell from the heaven burning like a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the springs of the waters.
And the name of the star is called Wormwood oil. And the third part of the waters developed into wormwood oil, and many of the men died from the waters, because they were made bitter.
And the fourth agent sounded, and the third part of the sun was struck, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars, so that the third part of them would be darkened. And the day did not shine the third part of it, and likewise the night.
And I looked, and I heard one eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying in a great voice, Woe, woe, woe, to those who dwell on the earth from the remaining sounds of the trumpet of the three agents who are going to sound.