And when Jesus had been born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men arrived from the east to Jerusalem,
saying, Where is He born King of the Jews? For we saw His star in the east and have come to worship Him.
But Herod the king having heard this, he was troubled and all Jerusalem with him.
And having gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he asked of them where the Christ was to be born.
And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it has been written by the prophet,
"And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judea, in no way are you least among the governors of Judah, for out of you shall come a Governor who shall shepherd My people Israel." Mic. 5:2
Then secretly calling the wise men, Herod asked of them exactly the time of the star appearing.
And sending them to Bethlehem, he said, Having gone, search carefully for the child. And when you find him , bring me word again so that coming I may also worship him.
And having heard the king, they departed. And, behold! The star which they saw in the east went before them until it had come and stood over where the child was.
And seeing the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with a great joy.
And having come into the house, they saw the child with His mother Mary. And falling down, they worshiped Him. And opening their treasures, they presented gifts to Him: gold and frankincense and myrrh.
And having been warned by a dream not to return to Herod, they went back into their own country by another way.
And they having departed, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph by a dream, saying, Rise up! Take the child and His mother with you, and flee into Egypt. And be there until I shall tell you. For Herod is about to look for the child in order to destroy Him.
And rising up, he took along the child and His mother by night and withdrew into Egypt.
And he was there until the end of Herod, that might be fulfilled that spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, "Out of Egypt I have called My Son." Hos. 11:1
Then seeing that he was mocked by the wise men, Herod was greatly enraged, and having sent, he killed all the boys in Bethlehem and in all its districts, from two years old and under, according to the time which he exactly asked from the wise men.
Then was fulfilled that spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying:
"A voice was heard in Ramah, wailing and bitter weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children and would not be comforted, because they were not ." Jer. 31:15
But Herod having expired, behold, an angel of the Lord appears to Joseph by a dream in Egypt,
saying, Rising up, take along the child and His mother and pass over into the land of Israel; for those seeking the soul of the child have expired.
And rising up, he took along the child and His mother and came into the land of Israel.
But hearing that Archelaus reigned over Judea in place of his father Herod, he feared to go there. And being warned by a dream, he departed into the parts of Galilee.
And coming, he lived in a city called Nazareth, so as to fulfill that spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene. No OT passage