But there was a certain man sick, Lazarus of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha.
It was the Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.
The sisters therefore sent to him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
And Jesus hearing this said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified through it.
Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
When therefore he heard that he was sick, he remained in the place where he was two days.
Then after this he saith to the disciples, Let us go into Judaea again.
The disciples say to him, Rabbi, the Jews but just now were seeking to stone thee, and goest thou thither again?
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If a man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world;
but if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth; because the light is not in him.
This he spoke, and afterwards said to them, Our friend Lazarus hath fallen asleep; but I go that I may awake him out of sleep.
The disciples therefore said to him, Lord, if he hath fallen asleep, he will recover.
But Jesus had spoken of his death; but they thought that he spoke of the taking of rest in sleep.
Then therefore Jesus said to them plainly: Lazarus is dead.
And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there; that ye may believe; but let us go to him.
Then said Thomas, who was called Didymus, to his fellow-disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him.
Having come, therefore, Jesus found that he had been four days in the tomb.
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off;
and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother.
Martha therefore, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet him; but Mary continued sitting in the house.
Then said Martha to Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died;
and even now I know that whatever thou shalt ask of God, God will give it thee.
Jesus saith to her, Thy brother will rise again.
Martha saith to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.
Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth in me, though he have died, will live;
and whoever liveth and believeth in me will never die. Believest thou this?
She saith to him, Yea, Lord; I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, he who was to come into the world.
And having said this, she went away, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Teacher is here and calleth for thee.
She, when she heard this, riseth quickly and cometh to him.
Now Jesus had not yet come into the town, but was still in the place where Martha met him.
The Jews then who were with her in the house and comforting her, when they saw that Mary rose up hastily and went out, followed her, thinking that she was going to the tomb to weep there.
Then Mary, when she came where Jesus was, as soon as she saw him fell down at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
Jesus therefore when he saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping who came with her, was greatly moved in his spirit, and much troubled,
and said, Where have ye laid him? They say to him, Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
The Jews therefore said, See, how he loved him!
But some of them said, Could not he, who opened the eyes of the blind man, have also caused that this man should not have died?
Jesus therefore, again greatly moved within himself, cometh to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it.
Jesus saith, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith to him, Lord, by this time the body is offensive; for he hath been dead four days.
Jesus saith to her, Did I not tell thee, that if thou wouldst believe, thou shouldst see the glory of God?
They therefore took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father! I thank thee that thou hast heard me.
Yet I knew that thou hearest me always; but for the sake of the multitude standing around I said it, that they might believe that thou didst send me.
And having thus spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth!
He that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with grave-clothes; and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith to them, Loose him, and let him go.
Many of the Jews therefore who had come to Mary, and had seen what he did, believed in him.
But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them what Jesus had done.
Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, What are we to do, seeing that this man worketh many signs?
If we thus let him alone, all will believe in him; and the Romans will come, and take away both our place and nation.
And a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high-priest that year, said to them, Ye know nothing at all;
nor do ye consider that it is expedient for us that one man die for the people, and not the whole nation perish.
And this he spoke not from himself; but being high-priest that year he prophesied that Jesus was about to die for the nation;
and not for the nation only, but that he might also gather together in one body the children of God that are scattered abroad.
Therefore from that day forth they consulted together to put him to death.
Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but departed thence to the country near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim, and there abode with the disciples.
And the passover of the Jews was at hand; and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themselves.
They sought therefore for Jesus, and said one to another, as they stood in the temple, What think ye? that he will not come to the feast?
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders, that, if any one knew where he was, he should give information, that they might seize him.