“Do not let your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe in me also.
In my Father’s house, there are many dwelling places. If there were not, I would have told you. For I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will return again, and then I will take you to myself, so that where I am, you also may be.
And you know where I am going. And you know the way.”
Thomas said to him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going, so how can we know the way?”
Jesus said to him: “I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. No one comes to the Father, except through me.
If you had known me, certainly you would also have known my Father. And from now on, you shall know him, and you have seen him.”
Philip said to him, “Lord, reveal the Father to us, and it is enough for us.”
Jesus said to him: “Have I been with you for so long, and you have not known me? Philip, whoever sees me, also sees the Father. How can you say, ‘Reveal the Father to us?’
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I am speaking to you, I do not speak from myself. But the Father abiding in me, he does these works.
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me?
Or else, believe because of these same works. Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever believes in me shall also do the works that I do. And greater things than these shall he do, for I go to the Father.
And whatever you shall ask the Father in my name, that I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you shall ask anything of me in my name, that I will do.
If you love me, keep my commandments.
And I will ask the Father, and he will give another Advocate to you, so that he may abide with you for eternity:
the Spirit of Truth, whom the world is not able to accept, because it neither perceives him nor knows him. But you shall know him. For he will remain with you, and he will be in you.
I will not leave you orphans. I will return to you.
Yet a little while and the world will not see me any longer. But you will see me. For I live, and you shall live.
In that day, you shall know that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you.
Whoever holds to my commandments and keeps them: it is he who loves me. And whoever loves me shall be loved by my Father. And I will love him, and I will manifest myself to him.”
Judas, not the Iscariot, said to him: “Lord, how does it happen that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world?”
Jesus responded and said to him: “If anyone loves me, he shall keep my word. And my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and we will make our dwelling place with him.
Whoever does not love me, does not keep not my words. And the word that you have heard is not of me, but it is of the Father who sent me.
These things I have spoken to you, while abiding with you.
But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and will suggest to you everything whatsoever that I have said to you.
Peace I leave for you; my Peace I give to you. Not in the way that the world gives, do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, and let it not fear.
You have heard that I said to you: I am going away, and I am returning to you. If you loved me, certainly you would be gladdened, because I am going to the Father. For the Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you this, before it happens, so that, when it will happen, you may believe.
I will not now speak at length with you. For the prince of this world is coming, but he does not have anything in me.
Yet this is so that the world may know that I love the Father, and that I am acting according to the commandment that the Father has given to me. Rise up, let us go from here.”