I charge you, therefore, before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom,
preach the word, be urgent in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and teaching.
For the time will come when they will not endure sound teaching, but according to their own desires they will procure for themselves an abundance of teachers to gratify their itching ears:
and they will turn away their ears from the truth, and be turned to fables.
But do you be watchful in all things, endure evil, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.?
For I am now ready to be poured out, and the time of my departure is at hand.
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith:
henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give me at that day; and not to me only, but to all those who love his appearing.
Endeavor to come to me shortly;
for Demas has forsaken me, having loved the present age; and he has gone to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia.
Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for the ministry.
I have sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
When you come, bring the cloak that I left in Troas with Carpus, and the books, especially the parchments.
Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord repay him according to his works.
Do you, also, beware of him, for he has greatly withstood our words.
At my first defense no one stood by me, but all forsook me; may it not be laid to their charge:
but the Lord stood by me, and gave me strength, that through me that which is preached might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and bring me safe to his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory from age to age. Amen.
Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
Erastus remained at Corinth. I left Trophimus sick at Miletus.
Endeavor to come to me before winter. Eubulus and Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brethren salute you.
The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you all. Amen.