Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons.
Grace to you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
always in every prayer of mine making my request for you all with joy
for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
being confident of this very thing, that He who has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ,
even as it is righteous for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you are all partakers of my grace.
For God is my witness how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and in all perception;
that you may distinguish between things that differ, that you may be sincere and without offense until the day of Jesus Christ,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
But I desire that you should understand, brothers, that the things which happened to me have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel;
so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places.
And most of the brothers in the Lord, becoming confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Some indeed even preach Christ because of envy and strife, and some also of good will.
Those, indeed, preach Christ out of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds.
But these others preach in love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel.
What then? Nevertheless, in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And I rejoice in this. Yet, also I will rejoice.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
according to my earnest expectation and hope that I shall be ashamed in nothing, but as always now Christ shall be magnified in my body with all boldness, whether it is by life or by death.
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet I do not know what I shall choose.
For I am pressed together by the two: having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better.
But to remain in the flesh is more needful for you.
And having this confidence, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all, for your advancement and joy of faith,
so that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again.
Only let your conduct be as becomes the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you, or else am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit, striving together with one mind for the faith of the gospel,
and terrified in nothing by your adversaries. For this is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God.
For to you it is given on behalf of Christ not only to believe on Him, but also to suffer for His sake,
having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now hear to be in me.