And, as he was going forth out of the temple, one of his disciples saith unto him—Teacher! see what manner of stones, and what manner of buildings!
And, Jesus, said unto him—Art thou beholding these great buildings? In nowise, shall there be left here, stone upon stone, which shall, in any wise, not be thrown down.
And, as he was sitting within the mount of Olives, over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew were questioning him, privately—
Tell us, When, these things, shall be, and, what the sign, when all these things shall be about to be concluded.
And, Jesus, began to be saying unto them—Beware, lest anyone, deceive, you;
For, many, will come on my name, saying, I, am he! and, will deceive, many.
And, when ye shall hear of wars, and rumours of wars, be not alarmed—it must needs come to pass, but, not yet, is, the end.
For there will arise—Nation against nation, and, kingdom against kingdom,—there will be earthquakes in places, there will be famines:—
A beginning of birth-pangs, are these things. But be, ye, taking heed, unto yourselves: they will deliver you up into high-councils, and, in synagogues, shall ye be beaten,—and, before governors and kings, shall ye be set, for my sake, for a witness unto them.
And, unto all the nations, first, must needs be proclaimed, the glad-message.
And, when they are leading you, as they are delivering you up, be not beforehand anxious, what ye shall speak; but, whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, the same, speak,—for, ye, are not the speakers, but the Holy Spirit.
And, brother, will deliver up, brother, unto death, and, father, child, and, children, will rise up, against parents, and put them to death;
And ye will be men hated by all, because of my name; but, he that hath endured throughout, the same, shall be saved.
But, when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, standing where it ought not, he that readeth, let him, think, then, they who are in Judaea, let them flee into the mountains;
He that is on the house-top, let him not come down, neither let him enter, to take away anything out of his louse;
And, he that hath gone into the field, let him not turn back unto the things behind, to take away his mantle.
But alas for the women with child, and for them who are giving suck,—in those days.
But be praying, that it may not happen in winter.
For in those days shall be a tribulation—such, that there hath not happened, the like, from the beginning of creation which God created, until the present time, and shall in nowise happen.
And, save that the Lord hath shortened the days, no flesh should be saved; but, for the sake of the chosen of whom he hath made choice, he hath shortened the days.
And, then, if any, unto you, say—See! Here, is the Christ! See! there, do not believe it;
For there will arise, false Christs, and false prophets; and they will show signs and wonders, so as to deceive, if possible, the chosen.
But, ye, beware: I have foretold you, all things.
But, in those days, after that tribulation, the sun, shall be darkened, and, the moon, will not give her brightness,
And, the stars, will, out of the heavens, be falling,—and, the powers which are in the heavens, will be shaken;
And, then, will they see the Son of Man—coming in clouds, with great power and glory.
And, then, will he send forth the messengers, and they will gather together his chosen—out of the four winds, from utmost bound of earth, unto utmost bound of heaven.
Now, from the fig-tree, learn ye, the parable:—When, already, her young branch, becometh tender, and, the leaves, are sprouting, ye observe that, near, is, the summer:
Thus, ye also, when ye shall see these things coming to pass, observe ye, that, near, he is, at the doors.
Verily, I say unto you—In nowise, shall this generation pass away, until all these things, shall happen:
The heaven and the earth, shall pass away, but, my words, shall not pass away.
But, concerning that day or hour, no one, knoweth, neither the messengers in heaven, nor the Son,—save the Father.
Be taking heed, be watching, for ye know not, when, the season [is]:—
As a man from home—having left his house, and given his servants the authority, to each one, his work,—and, unto the porter, hath given command, that he should watch:—
Be watching, therefore, for ye know not, when, the master of the house, is coming,—whether at even, or at midnight, or at cock-crowing, or at early morn;—
Lest, coming suddenly, he find you, sleeping.
But, what, unto you, I say, unto all, I say:—Be watching.