And the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, See, now, the place where we are living with you is too narrow for us.
Please let us go to the Jordan, and we each one shall take a beam from there. And we shall make for ourselves a place there, to live there. And he said, Go.
And the one said, Please be willing, and go with your servants. And he said, I will surely go.
And he went with them. And they came to the Jordan, and cut down trees.
And it happened that one was felling the log, and the iron fell into the water. And he cried out and said, Alas, my lord! For it was borrowed.
And the man of God said, Where did it fall? And he showed him the place. And he cut a stick and threw it in there, and made the iron float.
And he said, Take it up to you. And he put out his hand and took it.
And the king of Syria was fighting against Israel, and rose up with his servants, saying, At such and such a place shall be my camp.
And the man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, Be on guard in passing by this place, for the Syrians are coming down there.
And the king of Israel sent to the place of which the man of God spoke to him and warned him. And he protected himself there not once nor twice.
And the heart of the king of Syria was enraged over this thing. And he called his servants and said to them, Will you not tell me who of us is for the king of Israel?
And one of his servants said, No, my lord O king, For Elisha the prophet who is in Israel tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your sleeping room.
And he said, Go and see where he is , and I will send and seize him. And it was told him, Behold, he is in Dothan.
And he sent horses and chariots there, and a heavy army. And they came in by night and surrounded the city.
And the servant of the man of God rose up early and went out. And, behold, an army was surrounding the city, and horses and chariots. And his young man said to him, Alas, my lord! What shall we do?
And he said, Do not fear, for those with us are more than those with them.
And Elisha prayed and said, I beg You, O Jehovah, open his eyes so that he may see. And Jehovah opened the eyes of the young man. And he looked, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.
And they came down to it, and Elisha prayed to Jehovah and said, I beg You, strike this nation with blindness. And he struck them with blindness, according to the word of Elisha.
And Elisha said to them, This is not the way, nor is this the city. Follow me, and I will lead you to the man you seek. And he led them to Samaria.
And it happened, when they came to Samaria, Elisha said, Open the eyes of these, O Jehovah, and they will see. And Jehovah opened their eyes, and they looked; and, behold, they were in the middle of Samaria!
And when he saw them, the king of Israel said to Elisha, Shall I strike? Shall I strike, my father?
And he said, You shall not strike. Would you strike those whom you have captured with your sword and with your bow? Set bread and water before them that they may eat and drink and go to their master.
And he prepared a great banquet for them, and they ate and drank. And he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the companies of Syria did not come into the land of Israel any more.
And afterwards it happened that Ben-hadad the king of Syria gathered all his army and went up and laid siege to Samaria.
And there was a great famine in Samaria. And behold! They were laying siege to it until the head of an ass was at eighty silver pieces , and a fourth of a cab of dove's dung at five silver pieces .
And it happened. the king of Israel was passing by on the wall. And a woman cried to him, saying, Save, my lord, O king.
And he said, If Jehovah does not save you, from where shall I save you? Out of the threshing floor, or out of the winevat?
And the king said to her, What ails you? And she said, This woman said to me, Give your son and we will eat him today; and tomorrow we will eat my son.
And we boiled my son and ate him, and I said to her on the next day, Give your son, that we may eat him. But she hid her son.
And it happened when the king heard the words of the woman, he tore his garments. And he was passing by on the wall, and the people looked. And, behold, the sackcloth was inside on his flesh.
And he said, So may God do to me, and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat shall remain on him today.
And Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. And the king sent a man from before him. Before the messenger came to him, even he himself said to the elders, Do you see that this son of the murderer has sent to take away my head? Behold, when the messenger comes in, shut the door, and you shall hold him fast at the door. Is not the sound of the feet of his lord behind him?
While he was speaking with them, then, behold, the messenger came down to him. And he said, Behold, this is the evil from Jehovah. Why should I wait for Jehovah any more?