Every wise woman builds her house, but a foolish woman plucks it down with her own hands.
He who walks in his uprightness fears Jehovah, but he who is perverse in his ways despises him.
In the mouth of a fool is a rod of pride, but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.
Where no oxen are, the crib is clean, but by the strength of the ox is much increase.
A faithful witness will not lie, but a false witness utters lies.
A scoffer seeks wisdom, and finds it not, but knowledge is easy to him who has understanding.
Go into the presence of a foolish man, and thou shall not perceive the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of a prudent man is to understand his way, but the folly of fools is deceit.
Fools mock at sin, but among the upright there is good will.
The heart knows its own bitterness, and a stranger does not intermeddle with its joy.
The house of the wicked shall be overthrown, but the tent of the upright shall flourish.
There is a way which seems right to a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the end of mirth is heaviness.
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways, and a good man from his own fruits.
A simple man believes every word, but the prudent man looks well to his going.
A wise man fears, and departs from evil, but the fool bears himself insolently, and is confident.
He who is soon angry will deal foolishly. And a man of wicked devices is hated.
The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
The evil bow down before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poor man is regarded inferior even by his own neighbor, but the rich man has many friends.
He who despises his neighbor sins, but he who has pity on the poor, happy is he.
Do they not err who devise evil? But mercy and truth are to those who devise good.
In all labor there is profit, but the talk of the lips tends only to poverty.
The crown of the wise is their riches. The foolishness of fools is folly.
A true witness delivers souls, but he who utters lies causes deceit.
In the fear of Jehovah is strong confidence, and his sons shall have a place of refuge.
The fear of Jehovah is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
In the multitude of people is the king's glory, but in the want of people is the destruction of the prince.
He who is slow to anger is of great understanding, but he who is hasty of spirit exalts folly.
A tranquil heart is the life of the flesh, but envy is the rottenness of the bones.
He who oppresses a poor man reproaches his maker, but he who has mercy on a needy man honors him.
An evil man is thrust down in his evil-doing, but a righteous man has hope in his death.
Wisdom rests in the heart of him who has understanding, but what is in the inward part of fools is made known.
Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people.
The king's favor is toward a servant who deals wisely, but his wrath will be to him who causes shame.