AND I heard a loud voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out the vases of the wrath of God upon the earth.
And the first angel went, and poured out his vase upon the earth; and there came an ulcer malignant and painful upon the men that had the brand of the beast, and upon those who worshipped his image.
And the second angel poured his vase upon the sea and it became blood as of a dead man: and every living creature died in the sea.
And the third angel poured out his vase upon the rivers and upon the fountains of waters; and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters saying, Righteous art thou, O Lord, who art, and who wast, even the holy one, because thou hast judged these things.
For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.
And I heard another angel from the altar saying, Yea, Lord God Almighty, true and just are thy judgments.
And the fourth angel poured out his vase upon the sun; and there was given to it a charge to burn men with fire.
And the men were scorched with a fierce heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who had power over these plagues: and they repented not, to give him glory.
And the fifth angel poured out his vase upon the throne of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness, and they gnawed their own tongues from anguish,
and they blasphemed the God of heaven, in the midst of their anguish, and of their ulcers, and repented not of their works.
And the sixth angel poured out his vase upon the great river Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings who come from the rising of the sun might be prepared.
And I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs.
For they are the spirits of demons doing wonders, which go forth unto the kings of the earth, and of the whole habitable globe, to gather them together unto the battle of that great day of God Almighty.
Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watcheth, and keepeth his garments, that he walk not about naked, and men see his shame.
And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew, Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured out his vase into the air; and a loud voice come out from the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.
And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not from the day that men were upon the earth, an earthquake of such a kind, and so great.
And the great city was cleft into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and Babylon the great came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath.
And every island fled, and the mountains were no more found.
And a great storm of hail, each about a talent weight, fell from heaven upon men: and men blasphemed God for the plague of hail: for great was the plague of it, exceedingly great.