And when Abram was ninety-nine years old, Jehovah appeared to Abram, and said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me, and be thou perfect.
And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly.
And Abram fell on his face. And God talked with him, saying,
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shall be the father of a multitude of nations.
Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham, for I have made thee the father of a multitude of nations.
And I will make thee exceedingly fruitful. And I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.
And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee.
And I will give to thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land of thy sojourning, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God.
And God said to Abraham, And as for thee, thou shall keep my covenant, thou, and thy seed after thee throughout their generations.
This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee: every male among you shall be circumcised.
And ye shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a sign of a covenant between me and you.
And he who is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every male throughout your generations: he who is born in the house, or bought with money of any foreigner that is not of thy seed.
He who is born in thy house, and he who is bought with thy money, must be circumcised. And my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
And the uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he has broken my covenant.
And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shall not call her name Sarai, but her name shall be Sarah.
And I will bless her. And moreover I will give thee a son by her. Yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of peoples shall be by her.
Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born to him who is a hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear?
And Abraham said to God, Oh that Ishmael might live before thee!
And God said, No, but Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son, and thou shall call his name Isaac. And I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his seed after him.
And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He shall beget twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation.
But I will establish my covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to thee at this set time in the next year.
And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all who were born in his house, and all who were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said to him.
And Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
In the selfsame day Abraham was circumcised, and Ishmael his son.
And all the men of his house, those born in the house, and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him.