And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the king of Egypt, and the baker, had sinned against their lord the king of Egypt.
Then fell the wroth of Pharaoh upon his two courtiers, upon the chief of the butlers, and upon the chief of the bakers;
so he delivered them up into the ward of the house of the chief of the royal executioners, into the prison,—the place where Joseph was imprisoned.
And the chief of the royal executioners charged Joseph with them and he waited upon them, and they were some days in ward.
And they dreamed a dream they two, each man, his dream in one night, each man, according to the interpretation of his dream,—the butler and the baker who belonged to the king of Egypt, who were imprisoned in the prison.
And Joseph came in unto them in the morning,—and looked at them, and lo! they were sad.
So he asked Pharaoh’s courtiers who were with him in the ward of his lord’s house, saying, Why are your faces troubled to-day!
And they said unto him, A dream, have we dreamed, but there is none, to interpret, it. Then said Joseph unto them—Is it not unto God, that interpretations belong? Relate it. I pray you, to me.
And the chief of the butlers related his dream to Joseph,—and said to him, In my dream, then lo! a vine, before me;
and, in the vine, three shoots,—and the same at sprouting time, had shot up her blossom, and her clusters had brought to perfection ripe grapes.
Now, the cup of Pharaoh, being in my hand, I took the ripe grapes and pressed them out into the cup of Pharaoh, and set the cup upon Pharaoh’s palm.
And Joseph said to him, This, is the interpretation thereof,—The three shoots are three days:
In three days more, will Pharaoh lift up thy head, and restore thee to thine office, and thou shalt set the cup of Pharaoh in his hand, according to the former custom when thou wast his butler.
But if thou remember how I was with thee when it shall go well with thee, then wilt thou I pray thee do me a lovingkindness,—and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me forth out of this house;
For I was, stolen, out of the land of the Hebrews,—and, even here, had I done nothing, that they should have put me in the dungeon,
Then the chief of the bakers, seeing that he had well interpreted, said unto Joseph, I, too, was in my dream, when lo! three wicker baskets of fine bread were on my head;
and, in the uppermost basket, was some of every kind of food for Pharaoh that a baker could make,—but, the birds, kept eating them out of the basket from off my head.
And Joseph responded and said, This, is the interpretation thereof, The three baskets, are, three days:
In three days more, will Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and hang thee upon a tree, and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.
And it came to pass on the third day the birthday of Pharaoh, that he made a banquet for all his servants, and uplifted the head of the chief of the butlers and the head of the chief of the bakers in the midst of his servants;
and restored the chief of the butlers to his butlership, so that he set the cup upon the palm of Pharaoh;
but, the chief of the bakers, he hanged,—as, Joseph, had interpreted unto them.
Yet the chief of the butlers made no mention of Joseph but did forget him.