And after these things Paul having separated from Athens, he came to Corinth.
And having found a certain Jew named Aquila, a man of Pontus by origin, who recently came from Italy, and his wife Priscilla, because Claudius arranged for all the Jews to separate from Rome, he came to them.
And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and was working, for they were of the tentmakers craft.
And he was discoursing in the synagogue every sabbath, and was persuading Jews and Greeks.
And when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was being held by the Spirit, fully testifying to the Jews, Jesus the Christ.
But when they opposed and slandered him, having shaken out his clothes, he said to them, Your blood is upon your heads. I am clean. From henceforth I will go to the Gentiles.
And having departed from there, he went into the house of a certain man named Justus, who worships God, whose house was adjoining the synagogue.
And Crispus, the synagogue ruler, believed in the Lord with his whole household, and many of the Corinthians who heard believed, and were immersed.
And the Lord spoke to Paul by a vision at night, Fear not, but speak, and be not silent,
because I am with thee, and no man will lay upon thee to harm thee, because many people are for me in this city.
And he remained a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
But Gallio being proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord attacked Paul and brought him to the judgment seat,
saying, This man is persuading men to worship God against the law.
But when Paul was going to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If therefore indeed it were some crime or evil reckless deed, O ye Jews, I would have tolerated you according to the matter.
But if it is an issue about a word and names and the law from you, look ye yourselves, for I do not intend to be a judge of these things.
And he drove them from the judgment seat.
But all the Greeks, having taken Sosthenes the synagogue ruler, were beating him in front of the judgment seat. And Gallio was not going to judge, even of these things.
But Paul, who still remained considerable days with the brothers, having separated, sailed away to Syria (and with him Priscilla and Aquila), having shaved his head in Cenchrea, for he had a vow.
And he came to Ephesus and left behind those there, but having entered into the synagogue himself, he discoursed with the Jews.
And when they asked him to remain on more time with them, he did not consent,
but separated from them, having said, I must definitely keep the coming feast at Jerusalem, but I will return again to you, God willing. And he launched from Ephesus.
And after coming down to Caesarea, having gone up and greeted the church, he went down to Antioch.
And after spending some time, he departed, passing through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, successively, strengthening all the disciples.
Now a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by origin, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus, being mighty in the scriptures.
This was a man who was instructed in the way of the Lord. And being fervent in the Spirit, he was speaking and teaching accurately the things about the Lord, knowing only the immersion of John.
And this man began to speak boldly in the synagogue, but when Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him aside, and expounded to him the way of God more accurately.
And when he intended to pass through into Achaia, the brothers wrote, having encouraged the disciples to receive him, who, when he arrived, assisted much those who believed through the grace.
For he forcibly refuted the Jews in public, demonstrating by the scriptures Jesus to be the Christ.