Now, the first covenant also had ordinances of worship, and the worldly sanctuary:
for a tabernacle was constructed, the first, in which were the candlestick, and the table, and the presence bread; and this tabernacle is called holy.
But after the second vail, the tabernacle which is called the holy of holies;
which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid on all sides with gold, in which were the golden pot that held the manna, and the rod of Aaron that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
and over the ark, the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat; of which things we can not now speak particularly.
Now, when these things were thus arranged, the priests went, at all times, into the first tabernacle, discharging the service of God.
But into the second, the high priest alone went, once during the year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of the people:
the Holy Spirit signifying this, that the way into the most holy was not yet made manifest, while the first tabernacle was still standing,
which, as a symbol, remains to the present time, in which are offered both gifts and sacrifices that can not make perfect, as it respects the conscience, him that does the service;
since he relies only on meats and drinks and various immersions, ordinances indeed of the flesh, which were imposed till the time of reformation.
But Christ, having come a high priest of the good things to come, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, (that is, not of this building,)
entered, not by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, once for all, into the most holy, having obtained eternal redemption.
For if the blood of bulls and goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean, cleanses them as it respects the purity of the flesh,
how much more will the blood of the Christ, who, through the eternal Spirit, offered himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works, in order that you may serve the living God?
And for this reason, he is the mediator of the new covenant: that, since his death has taken place for the redemption of transgressions that were under the former covenant, those who are called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
For where a testament is, it is necessary that there be brought in the death of the testator:
for a testament goes into effect after men are dead: seeing that it has no validity at all while the testator lives.
Wherefore, the first covenant was not instituted without blood.
For when Moses had spoken to all the people every commandment of the law, lie took the blood of calves and of goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying:
This is the blood of the covenant which God enjoins on you:
and, in like manner, he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service.
And, indeed, according to the law, almost all things are cleansed by blood; and without the shedding of blood there is no remission.
It was necessary, therefore, that the copies of the things in the heavens should be consecrated by these sacrifices; but that the heavenly things themselves should be consecrated by better sacrifices than these.
For the Christ has not entered the holy places made with hands, the copies of the true; but he has entered heaven itself, now to present himself in the presence of God for us.
Nor has he entered, that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters the holy places every year with the blood of another:
for then, he must have suffered often since the foundation of the world. But now once in the end of the ages, he has appeared in order to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And, as it is appointed to men once to die, and after this the judgment,
so the Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and to those who look for him he will appear the second time, without a sin-offering, in order to salvation.