And, brothers, we entreat you, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and of our gathering together to Him,
for you not to be quickly shaken in the mind, nor to be disturbed, neither through a spirit, nor through speech, nor through letter, as through us, as if the Day of Christ has come.
Do not let anyone deceive you in any way, because that Day will not come unless first comes the falling away, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition,
the one opposing and exalting himself over everything being called God, or object of worship, so as for him "to sit in the temple of God" as God, proclaiming that he himself is God. Dan. 11:36; Eze. 28:2
Do you not remember that I told you these things, I yet being with you?
And now you know the thing holding back, for him to be revealed in his time.
For the mystery of lawlessness already is working, only he is holding back now, until it comes out of the midst.
And then "the Lawless One" will be revealed, "whom" "the Lord" "will consume" "by the spirit of His mouth," and He will bring to nought by the brightness of His presence. Isa. 11:4
His coming is according to the working of Satan in all power and miracles and lying wonders,
and in all deceit of unrighteousness in those being lost, because they did not receive the love of the truth in order for them to be saved.
And because of this, God will send to them a working of error, for them to believe the lie,
that all may be judged, those not believing the truth, but who have delighted in unrighteousness.
But we ought to thank God always concerning you, brothers, beloved by the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning to salvation in sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth,
to which He called you through our gospel, to obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So, then, brothers, stand firm and strongly hold the teachings you were taught, whether by word or by our letter.
But may our Lord Himself, Jesus Christ, and our God and Father, He who loves and gives us everlasting encouragement and good hope by grace,
encourage your hearts, and may He establish you in every good word and work.