And having called in his twelve disciples, he gave them authority over unclean spirits, so as to cast them out, and to heal every sickness and every disease.
Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: First, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother,
Philip, and Bartholomew, Thomas, and Matthew the tax collector, James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus who was surnamed Thaddaeus,
Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.
These twelve Jesus sent forth, having ordered them, saying, Go not into a way of the Gentiles, and enter not into a city of the Samaritans,
but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And while going, preach, saying, The kingdom of the heavens has come near.
Heal those who are feeble, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. Freely ye received, freely give.
Acquire no gold, nor silver, nor copper in your belts,
no bag for the road, nor two coats, nor shoes, nor staffs, for the workman is worthy of his provision.
And into whatever city or village ye may enter, inquire who in it is worthy, and there abide until ye go forth.
And while entering into the house, salute it.
And if indeed the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you.
And whoever will not receive you, nor hear your words, while departing that house or that city, shake off the dust of your feet.
Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city.
Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Become ye therefore wise as serpents, and innocent as doves.
But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues,
and ye will be brought to governors and even kings because of me, for a witness to them and to the Gentiles.
But when they deliver you up, be not anxious how or what ye should speak, for it will be given you in that hour what ye will speak.
For ye are not who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking in you.
And a brother will deliver up a brother to death, and a father a child. And children will rise up against parents, and condemn them to death.
And ye will be hated by all men because of my name, but he who endures to the end, this man will be saved.
But when they persecute you in this city, flee into the other, for truly I say to you, ye will, no, not have completed the cities of Israel, until the Son of man comes.
A pupil is not above his teacher, nor a bondman above his lord.
It is enough for the pupil that he becomes like his teacher, and the bondman like his lord. If they have called the house-ruler Beelzebub, how much more those of his household.
Fear them not therefore, for there is nothing covered, that will not be revealed, and hid, that will not be known.
What I tell you in the darkness, speak ye in the light, and what ye hear in the ear, proclaim upon the housetops.
And be not afraid of those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall on the ground independent of your Father.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Fear not therefore, ye are of worth more than many sparrows.
Therefore every man, whoever will profess in me before men, I also will profess in him before my Father in the heavens.
But whoever would deny me before men, I also will deny him before my Father in the heavens.
Think not that I came to spread peace on the earth. I came not to spread peace, but a sword.
For I came to divide a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And a man's foes, are those of his own household.
He who loves father or mother above me is not worthy of me, and he who loves son or daughter above me is not worthy of me.
And he who does not take his cross and follow behind me, is not worthy of me.
He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life because of me will find it.
He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man will receive a righteous man's reward.
And whoever may give to drink one of these little ones merely a cold cup in the name of a disciple, truly I say to you he will, no, not lose his reward.