These things, have I spoken unto you, that ye may not be caused to stumble:
Excommunicants from the synagogue, will they make you; Nay! there cometh an hour, that, every one who killeth you, shall think to be rendering, divine service, unto God!
And, these things, will they do, because they got to know, neither the Father nor me.
But, these things, have I told you,—That, whensoever their hour shall come, ye may remember, that, thereof, I told you. These things, however, I told you not, from the beginning, because I was, with you;
But, now, I go my way unto him that sent me, and, not one from among you, questioneth me—Whither goest thou?
But, because, these things, I have told you, sorrow, hath filled your heart.
But, I, the truth, am telling you—It is profitable for you, that, I, depart; for, if I should not depart, The Advocate, would in nowise come unto you, but, if I go, I will send him unto you.
And, having come, He, will reprove the world—Concerning sin, and concerning righteousness, and concerning judgment:
Concerning sin, indeed, because they are not believing on me;
But, concerning righteousness, because, unto the Father, I go my way, and, no longer, do ye behold me;
And, concerning judgment, because, the ruler of this world, hath been judged.
Yet many things, have I, unto you, to be saying,—but ye cannot bear them, just now;
Howbeit, as soon as, he, hath come—The Spirit of truth, he will guide you into all truth; for he will not speak from himself, but, whatsoever he heareth, he will speak, and, the coming things, will he announce unto you.
He, shall glorify me; for, of mine, shall he receive, and announce unto you.
All things, whatsoever the Father hath, are, my own; therefore, said I—Of mine, shall he receive, and announce unto you.
A little while, and, no longer, ye behold me; and, again a little while, and ye shall see me.
Some of his disciples, therefore, said one to another—What is this which he is saying to us:—A little while, and ye behold me not, and, again a little while, and ye shall see me; and—Because I go my way unto the Father?
They were saying, therefore—What is this which he saith:—A little while? We know not [what he is saying].
Jesus took note, that they were wishing to question him, and said unto them—Concerning this, are ye enquiring one with another,—because I said:—A little while, and ye behold me not, and, again, a little while, and ye shall see me?
Verily, verily, I say unto you—Ye, shall weep and lament, but, the world, shall rejoice: Ye, shall be grieved, but, your grief, into joy, shall be turned.
A woman, as soon as she is about to bring forth, hath, grief, because her hour hath come; but, as soon as she hath given birth to the child, no longer, remembereth she the anguish, by reason of the joy, that a human being into the world hath been born.
And, ye, therefore, now, indeed have grief; but, again, will I see you, and your heart shall rejoice,—and, your joy, no one, shall force from you.
And, in that day, shall ye request me, nothing:—Verily, verily, I say unto you—Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father, He will give you, in my name.
Until even now, ye have asked nothing in my name: Be asking, and ye shall receive,—that, your joy, may be made full.
These things, in similitudes, have I spoken unto you: There cometh an hour, when, no longer in similitudes, will I speak unto you, but, openly, concerning the Father, will I tell you.
In that day, In my name, shall ye ask:—and I say not that, I, will request the Father for you;
For, the Father himself, dearly loveth you, because, ye, have dearly loved me, and believed that, I, from the Father, came forth:—
I came forth out of the Father, and have come into the world,—Again, I leave the world, and go, unto the Father.
His disciples say—See! now, openly, art thou speaking, and, not a single similitude, art thou using:
Now, we know, that thou knowest all things, and hast, no need, that one be questioning thee. Hereby, do we believe, that, from God, thou camest forth.
Jesus answered them—As yet, ye believe:
Lo! there cometh an hour, and hath come, that ye should be scattered, each, unto his own home; and, me, alone, should leave;—And yet I am not, alone, but, the Father, is, with me!
These things, have I spoken unto you, that, in me, ye may have, peace: In the world, ye have, tribulation; but be taking courage,—I, have overcome the world.