I have come into My garden, My sister, My spouse; I have gathered My myrrh with My spice. I have eaten My honeycomb with My honey; I have drunk My wine with My milk. Eat and drink, O friends; yea, drink fully, beloved ones.
I sleep, but my heart is awake. It is the sound of my Beloved that knocks, saying , Open to Me, My sister, My love, My dove, My undefiled. For My head is filled with dew, My locks with the drops of the night.
I have stripped off My coat; how shall I put it on? I have washed My feet; how shall I soil them?
My Beloved sent His hand from the opening, and my inner being sighed for Him.
I rose up to open to my Beloved, and my hands dripped with myrrh; yea, my fingers flowing with myrrh on the handles of the bolt.
I opened to my Beloved; but my Beloved had left; He passed on. My soul went out when He spoke; I sought Him, but I could not find Him. I called Him, but He did not answer me.
The watchmen who went about the city found me and struck me; they wounded me; the keepers of the walls lifted my veil from me.
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my Beloved, what do you tell Him? That I am sick with love.
What is your Beloved more than another Beloved, most beautiful among women? What is your Beloved more than another Beloved, that you adjure us so?
My Beloved is bright and ruddy, standing out among ten thousand.
His head is like refined gold; His locks are bushy and black as a raven.
His eyes are as the eyes of doves on the rivers of waters, washed with milk, sitting on a setting.
His cheeks are like a bed of spices, a raised bed of aromatic herbs. His lips are like lilies dropping flowing myrrh.
His hands are like rings of gold filled with jewels; His body an ivory plate overlaid with sapphires.
His legs are like pillars of marble founded on bases of fine gold; His appearance is like Lebanon, excellent as the cedars.
His mouth is most sweet; and He is altogether lovely. This is my Beloved, and this is my Friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.