And it happened as He was praying in a certain place, when He ceased, one of His disciples said to Him, Lord teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
And He said to them: When you pray, say, Our Father who is in Heaven, hallowed be Your name, let Your kingdom come, let Your will be done on earth as it also is in Heaven.
Give us our needed bread day by day;
and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves also forgive everyone indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
And He said to them, Who of you shall have a friend, and will come to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves.
For a friend of mine arrived to me from a journey, and I do not have what I may set before him.
And answering from within that one may say, Do not cause me troubles. The door has already been shut, and my children are in bed with me. I cannot rise up to give to you.
I say to you, even if rising up he will not give to him because he is a friend, yet because of his shameless insisting, rising up he will give him as many as he needs.
And I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
For everyone asking receives, and the one seeking finds, and to the one knocking, it will be opened.
And what father of you, if the son asks for bread, will he give him a stone? And if a fish, will he give him a snake instead of a fish?
And if he should ask an egg, will he give him a scorpion?
Then if you being evil know to give good gifts to your children, how much more the Father out of Heaven will give the Holy Spirit to those asking Him.
And He was casting out a demon, and it was dumb. And it happened as the demon was going out, the dumb one spoke. And the crowds marveled.
But some of them said, He casts out the demons by Beelzebub the chief of the demons.
And tempting Him , others were seeking a sign from Heaven from Him.
But knowing their thoughts, He said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to ruin, and a house against a house falls.
And also if Satan is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? Because you say I cast out the demons by Beelzebub.
And if I cast out the demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast out? Because of this they shall be your judges.
But if I cast out the demons by the finger of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
When the strong one, having been armed, guards his dwelling, his goods are in peace.
But as soon as one stronger than he comes, he overcomes him; he takes away his armor on which he relied, and deals out his arms.
The one not being with Me is against Me. And the one not gathering with me scatters.
When the unclean spirit goes out from the man, he goes through dry places seeking rest. And not finding, he says, I will return to my house from where I came out.
And coming, he finds it swept and decorated.
Then he goes and takes seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and entering he dwells there. And the last things of that man become worse than the first.
And as He spoke these things, it happened that a certain woman lifted up her voice out of the crowd and said to Him, Blessed is the womb having borne You and the breasts which You sucked.
But He said, No; rather, blessed are those hearing the Word of God, and keeping it.
But the crowds pressing on Him , He began to say, This is an evil generation. It seeks a sign, and a sign will not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet.
For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so also the Son of man will be to this generation.
The queen of the south will be raised in the Judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And, behold, a Greater-than-Solomon is here.
Men, Ninevites will rise up in the Judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And, behold, a Greater-than-Jonah is here.
But no one having lit a lamp places it in secret, nor under the grain-measure, but on the lampstand, that the ones entering may see the light.
The lamp of the body is the eye. Then when your eye is sound, also all your body is light. But when it is evil, also your body is dark.
Watch, then, that the light in you is not darkness.
If, then, your whole body is light, not having any part dark, all will be light, as when the lamp enlightens you with its shining.
And as He was speaking, a certain Pharisee asked Him that He would dine with him. And going in, He reclined.
But watching, the Pharisee marveled that He did not first wash before the dinner.
But the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but your inside is full of robbery and evil.
Fools! Did not He who made the outside also make the inside?
But give alms of the things which are within, and behold, all things are clean to you.
But woe to you, Pharisees, for you pay tithes of the mint, and the rue, and every plant, and pass by the judgment and the love of God. It was right to do these things, but not to leave aside those.
Woe to you, Pharisees! For you love the chief seat in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees! Hypocrites! For you are as the unseen tombs, and the men walking above do not know.
And answering, one of the lawyers said to Him, Teacher, saying these things you also insult us.
And He said, Woe to you also, lawyers! Because you burden men with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Woe to you! Because you build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
So you bear witness and consent to the works of your fathers; for they indeed killed them, and you build their tombs.
And because of this, the wisdom of God said, I will send prophets and apostles to them, and they will kill and drive out some of them,
that the blood of all the prophets which has been shed from the foundation of the world may be required from this generation,
from the blood of Abel until the blood of Zechariah who perished between the altar and the House. Yea, I say to you, it will be required from this generation.
Woe to you, lawyers! Because you took the key of knowledge; you yourselves did not enter, and you kept out the ones entering.
And as He was saying these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly angry, and to draw Him out concerning many things,
lying in ambush for Him, and seeking to catch something out of His mouth that they might accuse Him.