THAT then shall we say? Shall we abide in sin, that grace may abound?
God forbid. We who are dead to sin, how shall we still live therein?
Do ye not know, that as many as have been baptised into Christ Jesus have been baptised into his death?
We have been buried therefore with him by baptism into death: that as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, so also we should walk in newness of life.
For if we have been planted with him in the likeness of his death, so shall we be also of his resurrection:
knowing this, that our old man hath been crucified with him, that the body of sin might be abolished, that we should no longer be slaves to sin.
For he that is dead is discharged from sin.
But if we have been dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:
knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death over him hath no more dominion.
For in that he died, for sin he died once: but in that he liveth, he liveth to God.
So also do ye account yourselves dead indeed to sin, but living unto God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Let not therefore sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in the passions thereof.
Neither present your members as weapons of unrighteousness for sin: but present yourselves to God, as alive from the dead, and your members as weapons of righteousness for God.
For sin shall not hold dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace.
What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.
Do ye not know, that to whomsoever ye present yourselves servants to obey, ye are his servants to whom ye obey; if of sin unto death, or of obedience, unto righteousness?
But thanks be to God, that though ye were the servants of sin, ye have obeyed from the heart the model of doctrine into which ye were delivered.
Emancipated then from sin, ye became servants to righteousness.
I speak humanly, because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have presented your members servants to impurity and iniquity for iniquity; so now present your members servants to righteousness for holiness.
For when ye were the slaves of sin, ye were free from righteousness.
What fruit therefore had ye then in those things at which ye are now confounded? for the end of those things is death.
But now being set at liberty from sin, and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness, and at the end life eternal.
For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is life eternal in Jesus Christ our Lord.