Praise Jehovah! Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good; for His mercy endures forever.
Who can express the mighty deeds of Jehovah, or cause all His praise to be heard?
Blessed are those keeping judgment, he who does righteousness in every season.
Remember me, Jehovah, with the favor of Your people; O visit me with Your salvation,
to see the good of Your chosen ones to rejoice in the joy of Your nation, to glory with Your inheritance.
We have sinned with our fathers; we did iniquity; we did wrong.
Our fathers did not understand Your wonders in Egypt; they did not remember Your many mercies, and they rebelled at the sea, at the Sea of Reeds.
But He saved them for His name's sake, to make known His might.
And He rebuked the Sea of Reeds; and it dried up; and He made them go through the depths as through the wilderness.
And He saved them from the hand of the hater, and ransomed him from the hand of the enemy;
and waters covered their enemies; not one of them was left.
Then they believed His words; they sang His praise.
They hurried and forgot His works; they did not wait for His counsel;
and they greedily lusted in the wilderness, and tested God in the desert.
And He gave their request to them, but sent wasting into their soul.
And they were jealous of Moses the saint of Jehovah in the camp of Aaron;
the earth opened up and swallowed Dathan; and covered the company of Abiram.
And a fire burned in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
They made a calf in Horeb, and fell down before the casted image;
and they changed their Glory into the image of an ox eating grass.
They forgot God their deliverer, doing great things in Egypt;
wonders in the land of Ham; awesome things by the Sea of Reeds.
And He said to destroy them; except Moses His chosen one had stood before Him in the breach, to turn away His wrath from destroying them .
They despised the pleasant land; they did not believe His word.
And they murmured in their tents, not listening to the voice of Jehovah;
and He lifted up His hand to them, to make them fall in the wilderness;
to make their seed fall also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.
They also were joined to Baal-peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead;
and provoked Him with their deeds; and a plague broke out among them.
Then Phinehas stood and intervened, and the plague was stayed;
and it was counted to him for righteousness to generation and generation, forever.
And they angered Him at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill for Moses because of them;
for they provoked his spirit, and he spoke rashly with his lips.
They did not destroy the peoples, as Jehovah said to them,
but mixed with the nations, and learned their works.
And they served their idols, and they became a snare to them.
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons;
and they shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. And the land was defiled with the blood.
And they were unclean with their works, and went whoring in their acts.
And the anger of Jehovah burned against His people; and He detested His inheritance.
And He gave them into the hand of the nations; and those who hated them ruled over them.
And their enemies oppressed them and they were humbled under their hand.
Many times He delivered them, but they rebelled in their plans, and sank in their iniquities.
And He looked on their affliction when He heard their shout;
He remembered His covenant for them, and breathed a sigh, according to His many mercies.
And He gave them to tender mercies before all their captors.
Save us, O Jehovah our God, and gather us from the nations, to give thanks to Your holy name, to exult in Your praise.
Blessed is Jehovah God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting. And let all the people say, Amen! Praise Jehovah!