And, brothers, we declare to you the grace of God that has been given in the congregations of Macedonia,
that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy, even from the depth of their poverty, abounded for the wealth of their generosity,
so that according to their ability, I testify, and beyond their ability, willingly,
with much exhortation, begging of us the favor, even the fellowship of service for the sanctified.
And it was not as we expected, but first they gave themselves to the Lord and to us through the will of God,
for us to urge Titus that, as he earlier began this kindness, so he would even finish it for you also.
But as ye abound in everything, in faith, and word, and knowledge, and all diligence, and in your love to us, so that ye may also abound in this kindness.
I speak not from commandment, but because of the zeal of others, also examining the genuineness of your love.
For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that although he was rich he became poor for your sakes, so that by that man's poverty ye might become rich.
And in this I give judgment, for this is expedient for you who earlier began, from a year ago, not only the doing but also the intending.
And now also finish the doing, so that just as was the willingness of the intending, so also to finish from the having.
For if the willingness is present, it is acceptable to the extent if some man has, not to the extent he does not have.
For it is not so that ease is for others and stress for you, but out of parity your abundance at the present time is for the need of those men.
So that the abundance of those men may also happen for your need, so that there may become equity,
as it is written, he of much did not abound, and he of little did not lack.
But thanks to God who gives the same eagerness for you in the heart of Titus.
Because he indeed accepted the exhortation, but his own will being more zealous, he went forth to you.
And we sent along with him the brother whose praise in the good news is throughout all the congregations.
And not only so, but who was also chosen by the congregations, a traveling companion of us with this gift administered by us, for the glory of the same Lord and our willingness.
Arranging this lest any man may criticize us in this bounty administered by us,
providing things right, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men.
And we sent along with them our brother whom we often proved being diligent in many things, but is now much more diligent (with much confidence toward you)
whether on behalf of Titus my partner and co-workman for you, or our brothers, apostles of congregations, a glory of Christ.
Therefore show ye the proof of your love and our boast about you, for them in the face of the congregations.