And he began to be speaking unto them, in parables,—A man planted, a vineyard, and put round it a wall, and digged a wine-vat, and built a tower,—and let it out to husbandmen; and left home.
And he sent forth, unto the husbandmen, in the season, a servant, that, from the husbandmen, he might receive of the fruits of the vineyard;
and, taking him, they beat him, and sent him away, empty.
And, again, sent he forth unto them, another servant; and, him, they smote on the head, and dishonoured.
And another sent he forth; and, him, they slew. And many others; some, indeed beating, and, others, slaying.
Yet one, had he, a son beloved: he sent him forth last unto them, saying—They will pay deference unto my son!
But, those husbandmen, unto themselves, said—This, is the heir: Come! let us slay him, and, ours, shall be, the inheritance.
And, taking, they slew him, and cast him forth outside the vineyard.
What will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come, and destroy the husbandmen, and let the vineyard unto others.
Have ye not, this scripture, read—A stone which the builders rejected, the same, hath become head of the corner!
From the Lord, hath this come to pass, and is marvellous in our eyes?
And they were seeking, to secure, him,—and were in fear of the multitude; for they perceived that, against them, the parable he had spoken. And, leaving him, they departed.
And they send forth unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, that they might, catch, him, in discourse.
And, coming, they say unto him—Teacher! we know that, true, thou art, and it concerneth thee not about anyone,—for thou lookest not unto the face of men; but, in truth, the way of God, dost teach:—Is it allowable to give tax unto Caesar, or not? Should we give, or should we not give?
But, he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them—Why are ye, tempting, me? Bring me a denary, that I may see it.
And, they, brought one. And he saith unto them—Whose, is this image, and the inscription? And, they, said unto him—Caesar’s.
And, Jesus, said—the things of Caesar, render, unto Caesar, and, the things of God, unto God. And they were marvelling at him.
And there come Sadducees unto him,—who, indeed say—Resurrection, there is none! and they were questioning him, saying—
Teacher! Moses, wrote for us, that—If one’s brother die, and leave behind a wife, and leave no child, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
Seven brethren, there were: and, the first, took a wife, and, dying, left no seed,—
And, the second, took her, and died, not leaving behind seed,—and, the third, likewise,—
And, the seven, left no seed; last of all, the woman also, died:—
In the resurrection,—of, which, of them shall she be, wife? For, the seven, had her to wife.
Jesus said unto them—Are ye not, for this cause, deceiving yourselves, knowing neither the Scriptures, nor the power of God?
For, when, from among the dead, they rise, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like messengers in the heavens.
But, as touching the dead, that they, do rise,—Have ye not read in the book of Moses, at the Bush, how God spake unto him, saying—I [am] the God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob:—
He is not a God of, dead, men, but of, living. Greatly, are ye deceiving yourselves.
And one of the Scribes, coming near, hearing them discussing, seeing that, well, he had answered them, began to question him—Which is the chief commandment of all?
Jesus answered—The chief is: Hear! O Israel,—The Lord our God, is, one Lord;
Therefore shalt thou love the Lord thy God, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,—and with all thy mind; and with all thy strength.
The second, is, this—Thou shalt love, thy neighbour, as thyself. Greater than these, other commandment, is there none.
The Scribe said unto him—Well, Teacher! in truth, hast thou said—He is, One, and there is none other, than he;
And, to love him, with all the heart, and with all the understanding,—and with all the might; and to love one’s neighbour as one’s self, is, abundantly more, than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.
And, Jesus, seeing him, that, with intelligence he answered, said unto him—Not far, [art thou] from the kingdom of God! And, no one, any longer, was daring to, question, him.
And Jesus, answering, was saying, as he taught in the temple—How say the Scribes that, the Christ, is, Son of David?
David himself, hath said, by the Holy Spirit,—The Lord, hath said unto, my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, until I put thy foes beneath thy feet.
David himself, calleth him, Lord: whence, then, is he, his own son? And, the great multitude, was hearing him gladly.
And, in his teaching, he was saying—Beware of the Scribes, who desire, in robes, to be walking about, and salutations in the markets,
And first seats in the synagogues, and first couches in the chief meals,—
Who devour widows’ houses, and, for a pretence, are long in prayer: these, shall receive a more surpassing judgment.
And, taking his seat over against the treasury, he was observing how, the multitude, was casting in copper into the treasury, and, man rich, were casting in, much.
And there came, one destitute, widow, and cast in two mites, which are, a farthing.
And, calling near his disciples, he said to them—Verily, I say unto you, this destitute widow, more than they all, hath cast in, of those casting into the treasury;
For, they all, out of their surplus, cast in, but, she, out of her deficiency, all, as much as she had, cast in,—the whole of her living.