Likewise, wives, submitting yourselves to your own husbands, that even if any disobey the word, through the behavior of the wives, without a word they will be won,
observing your pure behavior in fear.
Of whom let it not be the outward act of braiding of hairs, and of putting gold around, or of clothing of adorning garments,
but the hidden man of the heart, in the incorruptible adornment of the meek and quiet spirit, which is of great value before God.
For so once indeed the holy women who were hoping on God adorned themselves, submitting themselves to their own husbands,
as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord; whose children you became, doing good, and fearing no terror. Gen. 18:12
Likewise, husbands, dwelling together according to knowledge, as with a weaker vessel, the female, bestowing honor, as truly being co-heirs of the grace of life, not cutting off your prayers.
And, finally, be all of one mind, sympathetic, loving the brothers, tenderhearted, friendly,
not giving back evil for evil, or reviling against reviling; but, on the contrary, give blessing; knowing that you were called to this in order that you might inherit blessing.
"For the one desiring to love life, and to see good days, let him restrain his tongue from evil, even his lips not to speak guile.
Let him turn aside from evil, and let him do good. Let him seek peace, and pursue it;
because the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against any doing evil things." LXX-Psa. 33:13-17; MT-Psa. 34:12-16
And who is the one harming you if you become imitators of the good?
But if you truly suffer because of righteousness, blessed are you . "But do not fear their fear, nor be troubled.
But sanctify" Isa. 8:12, 13 the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give an answer to everyone asking you a reason concerning the hope in you, with meekness and fear,
having a good conscience, that while they speak against you as evildoers, they may be shamed, those falsely accusing your good behavior in Christ.
For it is better, if the will of God wills it , to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
Because even Christ once suffered concerning sins, the just for the unjust, that He might bring us to God; indeed being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit;
in which also, going in to the spirits in prison, He then proclaimed
to disobeying ones, when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, an ark having been prepared in which a few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water.
Which figure now also saves us, baptism (not a putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ;
who going into Heaven is at the right of God, the angels, and authorities, and powers being subjected to Him).