Now, King David, was old, advanced in days,—and they covered him with clothes, but he gat no heat.
Wherefore his servants said unto him—Let there be sought for my lord the king, a young woman—a virgin, so shall she stand before the king, that she may become his companion,—and she shall lie in thy bosom, and my lord the king shall get, heat.
So they sought a fair young woman, throughout all the bounds of Israel,—and found Abishag, the Shunammite, and brought her in, unto the king.
Now, the young woman, was exceeding fair,—so she became unto the king a companion, and ministered unto him, but, the king, knew her not.
And, Adonijah son of Haggith, exalted himself, saying—I, will be king. Therefore prepared he for himself chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
Now his father had not displeased him all his days, by saying—Why, thus, hast thou done? Moreover also, he, was of exceeding handsome appearance, and, him, did his mother bear, after Absolom.
So then he had speech with Joab, son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest,—and they gave help, following Adonijah.
But, Zadok the priest, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men who belonged to David, were not with Adonijah.
And Adonijah sacrificed sheep and oxen and heifers, near the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel,—and invited all his brethren, sons of the king, and all the men of Judah, servants of the king;
but, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother, he invited not.
Then spake Nathan unto Bath-sheba mother of Solomon, saying—Hast thou not heard that Adonijah son of Haggith hath become king, and, our lord David, knoweth it not?
Now, therefore, come; let me give thee counsel, I pray thee,—so shalt thou rescue thine own life, and the life of thy son, Solomon.
Go, and get thee in unto King David, and thou shalt say unto him—Didst not, thou thyself, my lord O king, swear unto thy handmaid, saying—Solomon thy son, shall become king after me, yea, he, shall sit upon my throne? Why, then, hath, Adonijah, become king?
Lo! while thou art yet speaking there with the king, I also, will come in after thee, and confirm thy words.
So Bath-sheba went in unto the king, into the chamber, now, the king, was very old,—and Abishag the Shunammite, was ministering unto the king.
And Bath-sheba bowed, and did homage unto the king,—and the king said—What aileth thee?
And she said unto him—My lord, thou thyself, didst swear by Yahweh thy God, unto thy handmaid, Assuredly, Solomon thy son, shall become king after me,—yea, he, shall sit upon my throne.
But, now, lo! Adonijah, hath become king; now, therefore, my lord, O king, thou knowest it not:
and he hath sacrificed oxen and heifers and sheep, in abundance, and hath invited all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab general of the army,—but, Solomon thy servant, hath he not invited.
Thou, therefore, my lord, O king, the eyes of all Israel, are upon thee,—to tell them, who shall sit upon the throne of my lord the king, after him.
Otherwise it shall come to pass, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, then shall I and my son Solomon be counted, offenders.
And lo! while yet she was speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet, came in.
So they told the king, saying, Lo! Nathan the prophet! And, when he had come in before the king, he bowed himself down to the king with his face to the ground.
Then said Nathan—My lord, O king, hast, thou, said, Adonijah, shall become king after me,—yea, he, shall sit upon my throne?
For he hath gone down to-day, and hath sacrificed oxen and heifers and sheep, in abundance, and hath invited all the sons of the king, and the generals of the army, and Abiathar the priest, and, there they are—eating and drinking before him,—and they have said—Long live King Adonijah!
But, me, even me thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and Solomon thy servant, hath he not invited.
If, of my lord the king, this thing had been brought to pass, then wouldest thou not have made known unto thy servant, who should sit upon the throne of my lord the king, after him?
Then responded King David, and said, Call me Bath-sheba. So she came in before the king, and stood before the king.
And the king sware, and said,—By the life of Yahweh, who hath redeemed my life out of every strait,
even as I sware unto thee by Yahweh, God of Israel, saying, Assuredly, Solomon thy son, shall become king after me, yea, he, shall sit upon my throne, in my stead, even so, will I do this day.
Then Bath-sheba bowed with her face to the ground, and did homage unto the king,—and said—Let my lord, King David, live to times age-abiding!
Then said King David—Call me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada. And they came in before the king.
Then said the king unto them—Take ye with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon the mule which pertaineth unto myself,—and bring him down unto Gihon;
then shall Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there as king over Israel,—and ye shall blow with the horn, and say—Long live King Solomon!
Then shall ye come up after him, and he shall enter, and sit upon my throne, yea, he, shall become king in my stead; even, him, have I charged to become leader, over Israel, and over Judah.
Then did Benaiah son of Jehoiada make response unto the king, and say—Amen! so, say Yahweh, God of my lord the king.
As Yahweh hath been with my lord the king, so, let him he with Solomon,—and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord, King David.
So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, with the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down, and caused Solomon to ride upon the mule of King David,—and they escorted him to Gihon.
Then took Zadok the priest, the horn of oil out of the Tent, and anointed Solomon,—and they blew with a [ram’s] horn, and all the people said, Long live King Solomon!
And all the people came up after him, the people themselves also, playing with flutes, and rejoicing with great joy,—so that the earth rent with the sound of them.
And Adonijah, and all the guests who were with him, heard it, just as, they, had made an end of eating,—and, when Joab heard the sound of a horn, he said—Wherefore the noise of the city, in tumult?
While yet he was speaking, lo! Jonathan son of Abiathar the priest, came in,—and Adonijah said—Come in, for, a worthy man, thou art, and, good tidings, dost thou bring.
But Jonathan responded and said to Adonijah,—Of a truth, our lord, King David, hath made, Solomon, king.
And the king hath sent with him—Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, with the Cherethites, and the Pelethites,—and they have caused him to ride upon the mule of the king;
and Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king, in Gihon, and they went up from thence rejoicing, so that the city rang again,—That, is the noise ye have heard.
Moreover also, Solomon hath taken his seat upon the throne of the kingdom.
Moreover also, the servants of the king have been in, to bless our lord King David, saying—Thy God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and make his throne greater than thy throne,—And the king bowed himself upon his bed.
Moreover also, thus and thus, hath said the king,—Blessed be Yahweh, God of Israel, who hath given, to-day, one to sit upon my throne, mine own eyes also beholding it.
Then trembled and rose up, all Adonijah’s guests,—and departed, every man his own way.
Adonijah also, feared because of Solomon,—and rose and went, and caught hold of the horns of the altar.
And it was told Solomon, saying, Lo! Adonijah, feareth King Solomon,—lo! therefore, he hath laid hold of the horns of the altar, saying, Let King Solomon swear unto me at once that he will not put his servant to death with the sword.
Then said Solomon, If he will be a man of worth, there shall not one hair of him fall to the earth,—but, if mischief be found in him, then shall he die.
So King Solomon sent, and brought him down from the altar, and he came in, and bowed himself down to King Solomon,—and Solomon said unto him—Go to thine own house.