For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle is taken down, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in Heaven.
For indeed in this we groan, greatly desiring to be clothed with our dwelling place out of Heaven,
if indeed in being clothed, we shall not be found naked.
For indeed, being in the tabernacle, we groan, having been weighted down, inasmuch as we do not wish to be unclothed, but to be clothed, so that the mortal may be swallowed up by the life.
And He having worked in us for this same thing is God, who also is giving us the earnest of the Spirit.
Then always being fully assured, and knowing that being at home in the body we are away from home from the Lord
(for we walk by faith, not by sight),
we are fully assured, then, and are pleased rather to go away from home out of the body, and to come home to the Lord.
Because of this, we also are striving to be pleasing to Him, whether being at home, or being away from home.
For we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive the things done through the body, according to what he did, whether good or bad.
Then knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, and we have been manifest to God; and I also hope to have been manifest in your consciences.
For we do not again commend ourselves to you, but are giving you occasion of glorying on our behalf, that you may have it toward those boasting in appearance and not in heart.
For if we are insane, it is to God; or if we are in our senses, it is for you.
For the love of Christ constrains us, having judged this, that if One died for all, then the all died;
and He died for all, that the living ones may live no more to themselves, but to the One having died for them and having been raised.
So as we now know no one according to flesh, but even if we have known Christ according to flesh, yet now we no longer know Him so .
So that if anyone is in Christ, that one is a new creation; the old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new!
And all things are of God, who reconciled us to Himself through Jesus Christ, and having given to us the ministry of reconciliation,
whereas God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself, not charging their trespasses to them, and putting the word of reconciliation in us.
Then on behalf of Christ, we are ambassadors, as God is exhorting through us, we beseech on behalf of Christ, Be reconciled to God.
For He made Him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in Him.