AND I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.
And I John saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, descending from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold the tabernacle of God is with men, and he shall pitch his tent with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, their own God.
And God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more; nor shall mourning, nor crying, nor toil be any more: because the former things are passed away.
And he that sat upon the throne said, Lo! I make all things new: and he said unto me, Write that these sayings are true and faithful.
And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end; I will give to him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.
He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be to him a God, and he shall be to me a son.
But to those who shrink back through fear, and to the infidels, and to the abominable, and to murderers, and to whoremongers, and to those who use magical incantations, and to idolaters, and to all liars, is their portion appointed in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone; which is the second death.
And there came to me one of the seven angels who held the seven vases full of the seven last plagues, and he talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb’s wife.
And he bore me away in spirit unto a great and exceeding high mountain, and shewed me the great city, the holy Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
having the glory of God: and her brilliance was like the most precious gem, as a jasper stone, transparent as crystal;
and she had a great wall and lofty, having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names inscribed on them, which are those of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.
From the east three gates; from the north three gates; from the south three gates; from the west three gates.
And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And he that talked with me held a golden cane to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.
And the city is a quadrangle, and the breadth of it is just as much as the length of it; and he measured the city with the cane, twelve thousand furlongs: the breadth, and the length, and the height of it, are exactly proportioned.
He measured also the wall of it a hundred and forty-four cubits, according to the measure of a man, for such is that of an angel.
The structure of the wall of it was jasper, and the city pure gold, like clear glass.
And the foundations of the walls of the city were adorned with every precious stone: the first foundation a jasper; the second a sapphire; the third a chalcedony; the fourth an emerald;
the fifth a sardonyx; the sixth a sardius; the seventh a chrysolite; the eighth a beryl; the ninth a topaz; the tenth a chrysoprasus; the eleventh a jacinth; the twelfth an amethyst.
And the twelve gates were twelve several pearls; every one of the gates was of one pearl; and the street of the city was pure gold, as transparent glass.
And I saw no temple therein; for the Lord God Almighty is the temple thereof, even the Lamb.
And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon to shine upon it: for the glory of God illuminates it, and the Lamb is the lamp thereof.
And the nations of those that are saved shall walk about in the light thereof; and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory and their honour into it;
and her gates shall be never shut by day (for there is no night there);
and they shall bring the glory and the honour of the nations into it.
And there shall no more enter into it any thing unclean, or that practises abomination and lying; but only those who are written in the book of life of the Lamb.