Judge not, that you may not be judged:
for with what judgment you judge, you shall be judged: and with what measure you measure, it shall be measured to you.
And why do you look at the splinter that is in your brother’s eye, but perceive not the beam that is in your own eye?
Or, how will you say to your brother, Let me pull out the splinter from your eye: and lo; a beam is in your own eye?
Hypocrite! first pull the beam out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to pull the splinter out of your brother’s eye.
Give not that which is holy to dogs, nor throw your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and tear you.
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and you shall find; knock, and it shall be opened to you.
For every one that asks, receives; and he that seeks, finds; and to him that knocks, it shall be opened.
What man is there of you, of whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?
And if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?
If then you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him?
All things, therefore, whatever you would that men should do to you, even so do you to them: for this is the law and the prophets.
Enter in through the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leads to destruction; and many there are that go in through it.
How strait is the gate, and how narrow the way, that leads to life! and few there are that find it.
But beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but within are ravenous wolves.
By their fruits you will know them. Are grapes gathered from thorns, or figs from thistles?
So every good tree produces goodly fruit: but an unsound tree produces diseased fruit.
A good tree can not produce diseased fruit; nor can an unsound tree produce goodly fruit.
Every tree that does not produce goodly fruit, is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Therefore, by their fruits you shall know them.
Not every one that says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out demons, and in thy name done many mighty works?
And then will I profess to them, I never knew you: depart from me, you that work iniquity.
Therefore, whoever hears these words of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man, who built his house on the rock:
and the rain descended, and the torrents came, and the winds blew, and they beat against that house, and it fell not: for it was founded on the rock.
And every one that hears these words of mine, and does them not, shall be likened to a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand.
And the rain descended, and the torrents came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell: and great was its fall.
And it came to pass when Jesus had ended these words, that the multitudes were astonished at his teaching:
for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes.