Come near ye nations to hear, And, ye races, attend,—Let the earth hear, and the fulness thereof, The world and all things produced therefrom:
That Yahweh hath wrath against all the nations, and indignation against all their host,—He hath devoted them to destruction He hath delivered them to slaughter;
And their slain shall be cast out, And their carcases, the stench of them shall ascend,—And, the mountains, shall melt away with their blood.
Then shall be dissolved all the host of the heavens, And the heavens shall roll up as a scroll,—Yea, all their host, shall fade—Like the fading and falling of a leaf from a vine, and Like what fadeth and falleth from a fig-tree.
For my sword hath been sated in the heavens,—Lo! upon Edom, shall it descend, Even on the people whom I have devoted to justice.
A sword, hath Yahweh—Glutted with blood Sated with fat,—With the blood of well-fed lambs and he-goats, With the fat of the kidneys of rams,—For, a sacrifice, hath Yahweh in Bozrah, Yea a great slaughter in the land of Edom;
Then shall buffaloes come down with them, And bullocks with bulls,—So shall their land be soaked with blood, And, their dust, with fat, shall be enriched.
For a day of avenging, hath Yahweh,—A year of requitals for the quarrel of Zion.
Then shall the torrents thereof be turned into pitch, And the dust thereof, into brimstone,—So shall her land become burning pitch:
Neither night nor day, shall it be quenched, To times age-abiding, shall ascend the smoke thereof,—From generation to generation, shall it be waste, Never, never, shall any pass through it:
That the vomiting pelican and the bittern may possess it: And the great owl and the raven, dwell therein; Then will he stretch out over it The line of desolation, and The plummet of emptiness.
Her nobles (but none, are, there)! unto royalty, will call,—All, all her princes, shall become nought.
Then shall come up, in her palaces thorns Nettles and thistles in her fortresses,—And she shall become A home for wild dogs, An enclosure for ostriches;
Then shall criers meet with howlers, And, the shaggy creature, unto his fellow, shall call,—Only, there, shall, the night-spectre, Make her settlement, And find for herself a place of rest:
There, shall, the arrow-snake, Make her nest and lay, And hatch and gather under her shadow,—Only, there, shall be gathered the falcons, every one with her mate.
Seek ye out of the scroll of Yahweh, and read, Not, one from among them, is lacking, None, hath missed, her mate,—For, a mouth, hath, itself commanded, And, his spirit, hath itself gathered them:
Yea he himself, hath cast for them a lot, And his own hand, hath given to them a portion by line,—Unto times age-abiding, shall they possess it, To generation after generation, shall they dwell therein.