And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down away from his brethren,—and turned aside unto a certain Adullamite, whose, name, was Hirah.
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite whose, name, was Shua,—and he took her, and went in unto her;
and she conceived and bare a son,—and he called his name Er.
And she conceived again and bare a son,—and she called his name Onan.
And she, yet again, bare a son, and called his name Shelah,—and she, was at Chezib, when she bare him.
And Judah took a wife, for Er his firstborn,—and, her name, was Tamar.
And it came to pass that Er, Judah’s firstborn was displeasing in the eyes of Yahweh,—so Yahweh put him to death,
Then said Judah to Onan, Go in unto thy brother’s wife, and fulfil the duty of a brother-in-law unto her,—and raise up seed, to thy brother.
And Onan knew that the seed would not be his,—and so although he did go in unto his brother’s wife, yet made he waste upon the ground, so as not to give seed to his brother.
And it was displeasing, in the eyes of Yahweh what he had done,—so he put, him also, to death,
Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter-in-law—Remain a widow in the house of thy father until Shelah my son grow up. For he said, Lest, he also, die, like his brethren. So Tamar went her way, and remained in the house of her father.
And when the days were multiplied, then died Shua’s daughter, Judah’s wife,—and Judah consoled himself and went up unto his sheep shearers, he and Hirah his friend the Adullamite, towards Timnah.
And it was told Tamar saying,—Lo! thy father-in-law is going up towards Timnah, to the shearing of his sheep.
So she put off from her the garments of her widowhood and covered herself with a veil and wrapped herself up, and sat down in the entrance of, Enaim, which is by the way towards Timnah,—for she saw that Shelah had grown up, and she, had not been given him to wife.
And Judah, seeing her, reckoned her to be an unchaste woman,—for she had covered her face.
So he turned aside unto her. by the way, and said Grant it! I pray thee, let me come in unto thee! For he knew not that she was his daughter-in-law. And she said, What wilt thou give me, if thou shouldst come in unto me?
And he said, I, will send a kid of the goats from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give a pledge until thou send it?
And he said—What is the pledge that I shall give thee? And She said—Thy signet-ring, and thy guard, and thy staff that is in thy hand. So he gave them to her and came in unto her and she conceived by him.
Then she arose and went her way, and put off her veil from her,—and put on the garments of her widowhood.
And Judah sent the kid of the goats by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive the pledge at the hand of the woman,—but he found her not.
So he asked the men of her place saying. Where is the devotee, she that was in Enaim, by the way? And they said,—There hath been here no devotee.
Then returned he unto Judah, and said—I found her not,—moreover also, the men of the place said, There hath been here no devotee.
And Judah said: Thou must take it to her, lest we become a contempt,—lo! I sent this kid, and, thou, hast not found her.
And it came to pass that about three months after, it was told Judah, saying—Tamar thy daughter-in-law hath been guilty of unchastity, moreover also lo! she hath conceived by unchastity. Then said Judah, Bring her forth and let her be burnt.
When, she, was about to be brought forth, then, she herself, sent unto her father-in-law saying, By the man to whom these belong, have I, conceived! And she said—Examine, I pray thee, to whom belong the signet-ring, and the guard, and the staff—these!
So Judah examined them and said—More righteous than I! forasmuch, as I had not given her to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more.
And, it came to pass at the time of her travail, that lo! twins, were in her womb.
And it came to pass when she was in travail, that one put forth a hand,—so the midwife took and bound upon his hand a crimson thread, saying—This came first!
And so it was that, no sooner had he withdrawn his hand, than lo! his brother had come. And she said, Wherefore hast thou made for thyself a breach? So his name was called Perez.
And afterwards, came his brother, on whose hand was the crimson thread,—so his name was called, Zerah.