AND arising, he went from thence into the coasts of Judea, through the country on the other side of the Jordan; and again the multitudes came together unto him; and as his custom was, he again taught them.
And the Pharisees coming to him, put a question to him, Is it lawful for a husband to put away his wife? tempting him.
He answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?
They said, Moses permitted to write a bill of divorce, and to put her away.
Then Jesus answering said unto them, For the hardness of your hearts he wrote you that ordinance.
But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female;
and said, For this cause shall a man forsake father and mother, and shall adhere to his wife;
and they two shall be one flesh: so that they are no more two, but one flesh.
What therefore God hath yoked together, let no man separate.
And in the house the disciples again asked him of this matter.
And he said unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her:
and if a wife put away her husband, and marrieth another, she committeth adultery.
And they brought unto him little children, that he should touch them: but his disciples rebuked those who brought them.
But when Jesus saw it, he felt indignation, and said to them, Permit little children to come to me, and hinder them not; for of such is the kingdom of heaven.
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in nowise enter into it.
And he took them in his arms, and laying his hand upon them, gave them his benediction.
And as he went out to the road, a person ran to him, and kneeling down, asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
Then said Jesus unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, even God.
Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery; Do not murder; Do not steal; Do not bear false witness; Honour thy father and mother.
Then he replying, said, Master, all these things have I observed from my youth.
Then Jesus looking upon him, loved him, and said to him, In one thing thou art defective: go, sell all that thou hast, and give to the poor; and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up thy cross, and follow me.
And groaning over this speech, he went away sorrowful: for he had many estates.
And Jesus looking round, said to his disciples, How difficultly shall they who have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
Then his disciples were astonished at these words. But Jesus again addressing them, said unto them, Children, how difficult is it for those who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And they were exceedingly amazed, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved?
And Jesus looking upon them, said, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible.
And Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee.
Then Jesus in reply said, Verily I say unto you, there is no man who hath left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake and the Gospel’s,
who shall not receive an hundred-fold more now, at this very time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecution, and in the world to come life everlasting.
But many first, will be last; and the last, first.
And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus was advancing before them: and they were astonished; and followed him full of fear. And again taking the twelve aside, he began to tell them what things were about to befall him:
For, lo! said he, we are going up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man will be betrayed to the chief priests, and to the scribes; and they will condemn him to death, and will deliver him to the Gentiles:
and they will insult him, and scourge him, and spit upon him, and kill him: and the third day he shall rise again.
And James and John the sons of Zebedee came to him, saying, Master, we desire that thou shouldst do for us whatsoever we request.
He said unto them, What will ye that I should do for you?
They say unto him, Grant us to sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left, in thy glory.
Then Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink of the cup which I drink? and be baptised with the baptism with which I am baptised?
And they said unto him, We are able. Then said Jesus unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup of which I drink; and be baptised with the baptism with which I am baptised:
but to sit on my right-hand, and on my left, is not mine to give; but to those for whom it is prepared.
And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant against James and John.
But Jesus called them, and said to them, Ye know that they who appear to rule over the Gentiles, lord it over them; and their great men exercise dominion over them.
But it shall not be so with you: but whosoever will be great among you let him be your servant:
and whosoever will be first, let him be the servant of all.
For the Son of man came not to be waited upon, but to be a servant, and to give his life a ransom for many.
And they came to Jericho. And as he was going out of Jericho with his disciples, and a great multitude, Bartimeus, the blind, the son of Timeus, sat by the road-side begging:
and hearing that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by, he began to cry out, and say, O Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me!
And many chid him, that he should be silent: but he cried out so much the more, Son of David, have mercy on me!
And Jesus stood still, and ordered him to be called: and they call the blind man, saying to him, Cheer up, arise; he calleth thee.
Then casting off his cloak, he arose, and came to Jesus.
And Jesus addressing him, said, What dost thou wish that I should do for thee? And the blind man said to him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight!
Then said Jesus unto him, Go thy way: thy faith hath saved thee. And immediately he received sight, and followed Jesus in the road.