WHEREFORE, my brethren, beloved, and very dear to me, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, O beloved.
I beseech Euodias, and I beseech Syntiche to be of one mind in the Lord.
And I beseech thee also, my genuine associate, assist those women who laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and my other fellow-labourers, whose names are in the book of life.
Rejoice in the Lord always; again I say, Rejoice.
Let your moderation be known unto all men.   The Lord is at hand.
Be not anxious about any thing, but in every case by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God.
And the peace of God which surpasseth all comprehension, shall guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are serious, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are amiable, whatsoever things are laudable, if there be any virtue, or any thing praise-worthy, pay attention to these things.
Whatsoever things also ye have learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, these practise, and the God of peace shall be with you.
Now I rejoiced greatly in the Lord, that now once more your thoughtful attention about me hath again sprung up, to which also your mind had been disposed, but ye had not found the opportunity.
Not that I mention this with a view to my indigence: for I have learned in whatever circumstances I am, to be content.
I know how to be abased, and I know how to abound; in every state and in all situations I am instructed either to be full or famishing, either to enjoy abundance, or to suffer want:
I am enabled for all things by Christ who strengtheneth me.
Nevertheless ye have done nobly in your communications to me during my affliction.
But know also, Philippians, that at my first preaching the gospel, when I went from Macedonia, no church communicated to me in the way of giving and receiving but ye alone.
For in Thessalonica also ye sent me once, yea twice, a supply for my want.
Not that I am anxious for a gift; but I am anxious to see fruit abounding on your account.
But I have now all things, and abound: I am full, having received from Epaphroditus your bounty, an odour of sweet smell, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God.
But my God will fully supply all your want, according to his riches in glory, by Christ Jesus.
Now to God, even our Father, be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
All the saints salute you, specially those who are of Caesar’s household.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.   Unto the Philippians, written from Rome by Epaphroditus. \p