What will we say then? We continue in sin so that grace may abound?
May it not happen! How will we who died to sin, still live in it?
Or are ye ignorant that as many as were immersed into Christ Jesus were immersed into his death?
We were buried therefore with him through the immersion into death, so that as Christ was raised up from the dead through the glory of the Father, so also we may walk in newness of life.
For if we have become co-planted in the likeness of his death, then we will also be of the resurrection.
Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be inactivated, no longer to enslave us to sin.
For he who has died has been made righteous away from sin.
And if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him,
knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more. Death no more has dominion over him.
For that he died, he died to sin once, but that he lives, he lives to God.
So also ye, reckon yourselves to be indeed dead to sin, but living to God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body in order to obey it, in its lusts.
And do not present your body-parts as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God, as living out of the dead, and your body-parts as instruments of righteousness to God,
for sin will not have dominion over you. For ye are not under law, but under grace.
What then? May we sin, because we are not under law but under grace? May it not happen!
Know ye not, that to what ye present yourselves as bondmen for obedience, ye are bondmen to what ye obey, whether of sin for death, or of obedience for righteousness?
But thanks to God, that ye were bondmen of sin, but ye obeyed from the heart a model of doctrine for which ye were delivered.
And having been set free from sin, ye were made servile to righteousness
(I speak man-like because of the weakness of your flesh). For as ye presented your body-parts servile to uncleanness, and to lawlessness for lawlessness, so now present your body-parts servile to righteousness for sanctification.
For when ye were bondmen of sin, ye were uninhibited by righteousness.
What fruit therefore did ye have then, of which things ye are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death.
But now having been made free from sin, and having become servile to God, ye have your fruit for sanctification, and the end, eternal life.
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.