Elihu also proceeded, and said,
Allow me a little, and I will show thee. For I have yet somewhat to say on God's behalf.
I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my maker.
(For truly my words are not false.) He who is perfect in knowledge is with thee.
Behold, God is mighty, and does not despise. He is mighty in strength of understanding.
He does not preserve the life of the wicked, but gives to the afflicted their right.
He does not withdraw his eyes from the righteous, but he sets them forever with kings upon the throne, and they are exalted.
And if they be bound in fetters, and be taken in the cords of afflictions,
then he shows them their work, and their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly.
He also opens their ear to instruction, and commands that they return from iniquity.
If they hearken and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
But if they do not hearken, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.
But those who are godless in heart lay up anger. They do not cry for help when he binds them.
They die in youth, and their life perishes among the unclean.
He delivers the afflicted by their affliction, and opens their ear in oppression.
Yea, he would have allured thee out of distress into a broad place, where there is no confinement, and that which is set on thy table would be full of fatness.
But thou have fulfilled the judgment of the wicked. Judgment and justice take hold,
and there shall be wrath upon the impious because of the ungodliness of bribes which the unrighteous receive.
Will thy cry not avail in distress, or all the forces of strength?
Do not desire the night, when peoples are cut off in their place.
Take heed. Do not turn to iniquity, for thou have fixed on this because of affliction.
Behold, God does loftily in his power. Who is a teacher like him?
Who has enjoined him his way? Or who can say, Thou have wrought unrighteousness?
Remember that thou magnify his work, of which men have sung.
All men have looked on it. Man beholds it afar off.
Behold, God is great, and we do not know him. The number of his years is unsearchable.
For he draws up the drops of water, which distil in rain from his vapor,
which the skies pour down and drop upon man abundantly.
Yea, can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, the thunderings of his pavilion?
Behold, he spreads his light around him, and he covers the bottom of the sea.
For by these he judges the peoples. He gives food in abundance.
He covers his hands with the lightning, and gives it a command that it strike the mark.
The noise of it tells concerning him. The cattle also concerning the storm that comes up.