O God of the fathers, and  Lord who keep your mercy,
Who made all things  by your word;

And by your wisdom you formedst man,
That he should have dominion over the creatures that were made by you,

And rule the world in holiness and righteousness,
And execute judgement in uprightness of soul;

Give me wisdom, her that sits by you on your  throne;
And reject me not from among your  servants:

Because I am your bondman and the son of your handmaid,
A man weak and short-lived,
And of small power to understand judgement and laws.

For even if a man be perfect among the sons of men,
Yet  if the wisdom that comes from you be not with him, he shall be held in no account.

You did choose me before my brethren  to be king of your people,
And to do judgement for your sons and daughters.

You gave command to build a sanctuary in your holy mountain,
And  an altar in the city of your  habitation,
A copy of the holy tabernacle which you prepared beforehand from the beginning.

And with you is wisdom, which knows your works,
And was present when you were making the world,
And which understands what is pleasing in your eyes,
And what is right  according to your commandments.

Send her forth out of the holy heavens,
And from the throne of your glory bid her come,
That being present with me she may toil with me,
And that  I may learn what is well-pleasing before you.

For she knows all things and has understanding thereof,
And in my doings she shall guide me in ways of  soberness,
And she shall guard me in her glory.

And so  shall my works be acceptible,
And I shall judge your people righteously,
And I shall be worthy of my father’s  throne.

For what man shall know the counsel of God?
Or who shall conceive what the Lord willeth?

For the thoughts of mortals are  timorous,
And our devices are prone to fail.

For a corruptible body weighs down the soul,
And the earthy frame lies heavy on a mind that  is full of cares.

And hardly do we  divine the things that are on earth,
And the things that are close at hand we find with labor;
But the things that are in the heavens who ever yet  traced out?

And who ever  gained knowledge of your counsel, except you  gave wisdom,
And sent your holy spirit  from on high?

And it was thus that the ways of them which are on earth were corrected,
And men were taught the things that are pleasing to you;
And through wisdom were they saved.
