NOW at that time Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth;
when a certain man who was lame from his mother’s womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple called Beautiful, to ask alms of those who were entering into the temple;
who seeing Peter and John just going into the temple, asked to receive alms.
Then Peter fixing his eves stedfastly on him with John, said, Look on us.
So he attentively regarded them, expecting to receive something from them.
Then said Peter, I have neither silver nor gold; but what I have, that I give thee: By the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarean, arise, and walk!
And taking him by the right hand, he raised him up: and immediately his feet and ancles were restored to strength.
And springing up he stood on his feet, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
And all the people beheld him walking and praising God:
and they took notice of him, that it was the same person who had sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with astonishment and amazed at what had happened to him.
But as the lame man that was cured held fast Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them into the portico called Solomon’s, in vast amazement.
Then Peter observing it, addressed himself to the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why gaze ye upon us, as if by our own power or piety we had enabled this man to walk?
The God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he had determined to release him.
But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and besought that a man, a murderer, might as a favour be given unto you;
but ye slew the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead: of which we are witnesses.
And through faith in his name hath his name restored this man to strength, whom ye behold and know: yea, the faith which is by him hath given him this perfect soundness in the sight of you all.
And now, brethren, I know that through ignorance ye did this deed, as did also your rulers.
But the things which God before announced by the mouth of all his prophets, that Messiah should suffer, he hath thus fulfilled.
Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when refreshing seasons shall come from the presence of the Lord;
and he will send Jesus Christ, who was before preached unto you:
whom the heaven indeed must receive, until the times of restoration of all things, which God hath spoken of by the mouth of all his holy prophets from the beginning of the world.
For Moses truly said unto the fathers, “A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you from among your brethren, like myself; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall speak to you.
But it shall come to pass, that every soul which will not hearken to that prophet, shall be utterly exterminated from amidst the people.”
And all the prophets indeed from Samuel, and those who succeeded him, as many as have spoken, have also foretold those days.
Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying unto Abraham, And “in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed.”
Unto you in the first instance, hath God, after raising up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you, to the end that every one of you should turn away from your iniquities.