And he brought me out into the outer court northward. And he brought me into the room that was across from the separate area, which was in front of the building to the north.
To the face of its length was a hundred cubits, toward the north door, and fifty cubits wide.
Across from the twenty cubits which were to the inner court, and opposite the pavement which was to the outer court, was gallery on the face of gallery, in three stories.
And before the rooms was a walk ten cubits wide, to the inside, a way of one cubit. And their doors were toward the north.
And the upper rooms were shorter, for the galleries used up more space than the lower and middle ones in the building.
For they were in three stories , and there were no columns to them like the columns of the courts. So the third was made narrower than the lower and middle stories from the ground.
And the wall that was outside near the rooms the way of the outer court, on the face of the rooms, its length was fifty cubits.
For the length of the rooms that were in the outer court was fifty cubits. And, behold, in the face of the temple was a hundred cubits.
And under these rooms was the entrance on the east side as one goes into them from the outer court.
In the width of the wall of the court eastward, to the face of the separate area, and to the face of the building were rooms.
And the way before them looked like the rooms which were northward, as their length, so their width. And all their exits were as their patterns and as their doors.
And as the doors of the rooms that were southward, there was a door in the head of the way, the way directly in the face of the wall, the way of the east, as one enters them.
And he said to me, The north rooms, the south chambers which are to the face of the separate area, they are holy rooms, there where the priests shall eat, who approach to Jehovah, the holiest of the holy things . There they shall lay the holiest of the holy things , even the food offering and the sin offering, and the guilt offering. For the place is holy.
When the priests enter, then they shall not go out of the sanctuary into the outer court, but they shall lay their clothes there by which they minister by them, for they are holy. They shall put on other clothes and shall approach to that which is for the people.
And he finished measuring the inner house. And he brought me forth the way of the gate whose face is eastward, and measured all around.
He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed, all around.
He measured the north side, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed, all around.
He measured the south side, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
He turned to the west side, measuring five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
By the four sides he measured it. It had a wall all around, five hundred reeds long, and five hundred wide, to separate between the holy and the common.