The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,
So speaks the LORD God of Israel, saying, Write all the words that I have spoken to you in a book.
For, lo, the days come, says the LORD, that I will bring again the captivity of My people Israel and Judah, says the LORD. And I will cause them to return to the land that I gave their fathers, and they shall possess it.
And these are the words that the LORD spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah.
For so says the LORD, We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace.
Ask now, and see whether a man is giving birth? Why do I see every man with his hands on his loins, like a woman in labor, and all faces are turned into paleness?
Alas! For that day is great, so that none is like it; it is even the time of Jacob's trouble; but he shall be saved out of it.
For it shall be in that day, says the LORD of hosts, I will break his yoke from your neck and will burst your bonds. And strangers shall no longer enslave him,
but they shall serve the LORD their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up to them.
And you, O My servant Jacob, do not fear, says the LORD. Do not be terrified, O Israel. For lo, I will save you from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity. And Jacob shall return, and shall be in rest, and be quiet, and none shall make him afraid.
For I am with you, says the LORD, to save you. Though I make a full end of all nations where I have scattered you, yet I will not make a full end of you; but I will correct you in measure, and will not leave you entirely unpunished.
For so says the LORD, Your break cannot be cured, and your wound is grievous.
There is none to plead your cause; for your ulcer there are no healing medicines for you.
All your lovers have forgotten you; they do not seek you. For I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, for the greatness of your iniquity; because your sins are many.
Why do you cry over your crushing? Your pain is incurable, for the greatness of your iniquity; because your sins are many, I have done these things to you.
So all those who devour you shall be devoured; and all your enemies, every one of them, shall go into captivity. And they who rob you shall be robbed, and all who strip you I will strip.
For I will give health back to you, and will heal you of your wounds, says the LORD; because they called you an outcast, saying, This is Zion; no one is seeking for her.
So says the LORD: Behold, I will bring again the captivity of Jacob's tents, and will have mercy on his dwelling places. And the city shall be built on her own hill, and the palace shall remain in its own place.
And out of them shall come thanksgiving, and the voice of those who rejoice. And I will multiply them, and they shall not be few; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.
Also their sons shall be as they were before, and their congregation shall be established before Me, and I will punish all who ill-treat them.
And their rulers shall be of themselves, and their governor shall come from among them; and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach Me. For who is this who pledged his heart to come near to Me? says the LORD.
And you shall be My people, and I will be your God.
Behold, the tempest of the LORD goes forth with fury, a never-ending tempest; it shall fall with pain on the head of the wicked.
The fierce anger of the LORD shall not return until He has done it, and until He has fulfilled the intentions of His heart. In the latter days you shall understand it.