And God said to Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and live there. And make an altar there to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau your brother.
Then Jacob said to his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods among you, and be clean, and change your garments.
And let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make an altar there to God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.
And they gave all the strange gods which were in their hands to Jacob, and the earrings in their ears. And Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.
And they moved. And the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue the sons of Jacob.
And Jacob came to Luz in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people with him.
And he built an altar there and called the place El-bethel, because God appeared to him there when he fled from the face of his brother.
But Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died, and she was buried beneath Bethel, under an oak. And the name of it was called Oak of Weeping.
And God appeared to Jacob again when he came out of Padan-aram and blessed him.
And God said to him, Your name is Jacob. Your name shall not be called Jacob any more, but Israel shall be your name. And He called his name Israel.
And God said to him, I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations shall be from you, and kings shall come out of your loins.
And the land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will give to you, and to your seed after you I will give the land.
And God went up from him in the place where He talked with him.
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where He talked with him, a pillar of stone. And he poured a drink offering on it, and he poured oil on it.
And Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him, Bethel.
And they moved from Bethel. And there was only a length of land to come to Ephrath. And Rachel travailed, and she had hard labor in her bearing.
And it happened when she was in hard labor in her bearing, the midwife said to her, Do not fear, you shall have this son also.
And it happened as her soul was departing (for she died) that she called his name Benoni. But his father called him Benjamin.
And Rachel died and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem.
And Jacob set up a pillar upon her grave. That is the pillar of Rachel's grave to this day.
And Israel moved, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar.
And it happened when Israel lived in that land, Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine. And Israel heard it. And the sons of Jacob were twelve:
The sons of Leah: Reuben, Jacob's first-born, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun.
The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's slave woman: Dan and Naphtali.
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's slave woman: Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob born to him in Padan-aram.
And Jacob came to his father Isaac, to Mamre, to the city of Arba, which is Hebron, where Abraham had lived, and Isaac.
And the days of Isaac were a hundred and eighty years.
And Isaac expired and died, and was gathered to his people, old and satisfied of days. And his sons, Esau and Jacob, buried him.