NOW there were some present at that time who informed him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
And Jesus in reply said to them, Think ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans, because they suffered such things?
I tell you, No: for except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
Or those eighteen, on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them, think ye that they were debtors to divine justice above all the men who dwell at Jerusalem?
I tell you, No: but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
Then he spake this parable: A certain man had a fig-tree planted in his vineyard; and he came, expecting fruit on it, and found none.
Then said he to the vine-dresser, Lo! for three years have I come, expecting fruit on this fig-tree, and find none: cut it down; why doth it render the ground thus useless?
He answering said to him, Sir, let it e’en remain this year, until that I dig around it, and spread some manure:
perhaps it may then produce fruit: but if it does not, afterwards thou shalt cut it down.
And he was teaching in one of the synagogues, on the sabbath.
And, behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and unable to raise herself at all up.
But when Jesus saw her, he called out aloud, and said to her, Woman, thou art delivered from thine infirmity.
And he laid his hands upon her: and instantly she became erect, and glorified God.
Then the ruler of the synagogue, indignant, that on the sabbath Jesus had performed the cure, addressing himself to the multitude, said, There are six days in which work is to be done: on these therefore come and be cured, and not on the sabbath-day.
Then the Lord answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not every one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the manger, and lead him to water?
And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, to be loosed from this bond on the sabbath-day?
And when he had made this speech, all his opposers were covered with shame: and all the multitude rejoiced in all the glorious things which were done by him.
Then said he, To what is the kingdom of God like? and whereunto shall I compare it?
It is like a grain of mustard, which a man took and put into his garden; and it grew, and became a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged on its branches.
And again he said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God?
It is like leaven, which a woman taking, covered up in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.
And he passed through the cities and villages, teaching, and making his way towards Jerusalem.
And a person said to him, Lord, are the saved few? And he said unto them,
Exert all your powers to enter through the strait gate: for many, I tell you, will seek to enter, but will not be able.
When the master of the family shall have arisen, and shut the door, and ye shall begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Master, master, open it for us! and he answering will tell you, I know you not whence ye are:
then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets.
And he will say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.
There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom, and yourselves cast out.
And they shall come from the east, and west, and from north, and south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God.
And, behold, there are last who shall be first, and there are first who shall be last.
The same day came certain Pharisees, saying to him, Depart, and begone from hence: for Herod will kill thee.
And he said to them, Go tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and perform cures today and to-morrow, and on the third day I shall be perfected.
But I must go on to-day and to-morrow, and the day following: for it is impossible that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.
O Jerusalem! Jerusalem! thou that killest the prophets, and stonest those who are sent unto thee; how often would I have collected thy children unto me, just as a hen gathereth her brood under her wings, and ye would not!
Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: verily I say unto you, That ye shall see me no more, till the day come when ye shall say, Blessed is he who cometh in the name of the Lord.