Woe to the destroyer, and you who have not been destroyed; and betrayer, and they have not betrayed you. When you stop destroying, you shall be destroyed. When you stop betraying, they shall betray you.
O LORD, be gracious to us; we have waited for You; be their arm in the mornings; our salvation also in the time of trouble.
At the noise of the tumult the people fled; at the lifting up of Yourself the nations were scattered.
And your spoil shall be gathered as the stripping locust gathers; as the running to and fro of locusts he shall run on them.
The LORD is exalted, for He dwells on high. He has filled Zion with judgment and righteousness.
And He will be the security of your times, and strength of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; the fear of the LORD is his treasure.
Behold, their mighty ones shall cry outside; the messengers of peace shall weep bitterly.
The highways lie waste, the traveler ceases. He has broken the covenant. He has despised the cities. He cared for no man.
The earth mourns and droops. Lebanon is ashamed; Sharon withers like a wilderness; Bashan and Carmel are shaken out.
Now I will rise, says the LORD; now I will be exalted; now I will lift up Myself.
You shall conceive chaff, you shall bring out stubble; your breath, like fire, shall devour you.
And the people shall be like the burnings of lime; like thorns cut up, they shall be burned in the. fire.
You who are far off, hear what I have done; and you near ones, know My might.
The sinners in Zion are afraid; terror has surprised profane ones. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?
He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly; he who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands free from holding bribes, who stops his ear from hearing of blood, and shuts his eyes from seeing evil;
He shall dwell on high; his refuge shall be the strongholds of rocks; bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure.
Your eyes shall see the king in his beauty; they shall behold the land that is very far off.
Your heart shall dwell on terror. Where is the scribe? Where is the one weighing? Where is he who counting the towers?
You shall not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than you can understand; of a foreign tongue that no one understands.
Look on Zion, the city of our holy meetings; your eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet home, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of its stakes shall ever be removed, nor shall any of its cords be broken.
But there the glorious LORD will be to us a place of broad rivers and streams, in which no galley with oars shall go, nor shall mighty ship pass by it.
For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD is our king; He will save us.
Your ropes are loosened, they do not hold the base of the mast; they could not spread the sail. Then the prey of a great spoil shall be divided; the lame take the prey.
And an inhabitant, the people who live in it shall not say, I am sick; iniquity is taken away.