And being saved, then they knew that the island was called Melita.
And the foreigners showed us not the common kindness. For they kindled a fire and welcomed all of us, because of the rain coming on, and because of the cold.
And Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laying them on the fire, a viper came out of the heat and fastened on his hand.
And when the foreigners saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, being saved from the sea, Justice has not allowed to live.
Then indeed he shook off the creature into the fire, suffering no harm.
But they expected him to be about to become inflamed, or to fall down dead suddenly, But over much time expecting and seeing nothing amiss happening to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
In the quarters about that place were lands to the chief of the island, whose name was Publius. Welcoming us, he lodged us courteously three days.
And it happened the father of Publius was lying down, suffering fevers and dysentery; to whom Paul entered in, and praying and laying on his hands, he healed him.
Then this taking place, the rest who were having infirmities in the island also came, and were healed.
They also honored us with many honors. And on our setting sail, they laid on the things of our needs.
And after three months we sailed in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, an Alexandrian with an ensign, The Twin Brothers.
And landing at Syracuse, we stayed three days.
Going around from there we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day a south wind coming on, we came to Puteoli on the second,
where finding brothers, we were asked to stay seven days. And so we went toward Rome.
And the brothers from there hearing of us, they came to meet us as far as the market-place of Appius, and Three Taverns. Seeing them, thanking God, Paul took courage.
And when we came into Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the camp commander. But Paul was allowed to dwell by himself, with a soldier guarding him.
And after three days it happened that Paul called together those being chief of the Jews. And they coming together, he said to them, Men, brothers, I did nothing against the people or customs of our fathers. I was delivered a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans
who, examining me, were of a mind to let me go because there was no cause of death in me.
But the Jews speaking against it, I was constrained to appeal to Caesar; not as having anything to accuse my nation.
For this cause, then, I called for you, to see and to speak with you. For I have this chain around me for the hope of Israel.
And they said to him, We neither received letters out of Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers who came declared or spoke anything evil of you.
But we think it right to hear from you what you think. For truly as concerning this sect, it is known to us that it is spoken against everywhere.
And they having appointed him a day, many came to him in his lodging; to whom he expounded, testifying the kingdom of God, and persuading them the things concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses and out of the prophets, from morning until evening.
And some indeed believed the things that were said, others did not believe.
And disagreeing with one another, they were let go, Paul saying one word: Well did the Holy Spirit speak through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers,
saying, "Go to this people and say: Hearing you shall hear and shall not understand; and seeing you shall see and not perceive.
For the heart of this people was fattened, and they have heard with their ears dully; and they closed their eyes; lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them."
Therefore be it known to you that the salvation of God is sent to the nations, and they will hear.
And he having said these words, the Jews departed, having much discussion amongst themselves.
And Paul remained two years in his own hired house. And he welcomed all who came in to him,
proclaiming the kingdom of God, and teaching those things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all freedom, and without hindrance.