Hear ye this—O house of Jacob, Ye who call yourselves by the name of Israel, Yea from the waters of Judah, came they forth,—Who swear by the name of Yahweh, And, by the God of Israel, call to remembrance—Not in truth, nor in righteousness;
For of the holy city, do they call themselves, And on the God of Israel, do they stay themselves,—Yahweh of hosts, is his name.
Things in advance, of old, I declared, Yea out of mine own mouth, came they forth, that I might let them be known,—Suddenly, I wrought and they came to pass.
Because I knew that—Obstinate, thou wast,—And, a sinew of iron, was thy neck, And thy brow, brazen,
therefore told I thee—in time past, Ere yet it came, I let thee hear,—Lest thou shouldest say Mine idol wrought them, Yea, my carved image and my molten image, commanded them!
Thou hast heard—see it whole, And will, ye, not tell? I have let thee hear new things—from the present time, Even secrets which ye knew not.
Now, are they created, and not in time past, And, before to-day, thou hadst not heard of them,—Lest thou shouldest say, Lo! I knew them!
Nay! thou hadst not heard, Nay! thou hadst not known, Nay! in time past, thine ear, was not opened,—For I knew that thou, wouldst be treacherous, Yea a transgressor from birth, hast thou been called.
For the sake of mine own Name, will I defer mine anger, And for my praise, will I restrain myself towards thee,—So as not to cut thee off.
Lo! I have refined thee, but not as silver,—I have tested thee, in a smelting-pot of affliction.
For mine own sake—for mine own sake, will I effectually work For how should it be profaned? And, my glory—to another, will I not give.
Hearken unto me O Jacob, And Israel, my called one,—I, am, the Same I, the first, yea, I, the last:
Surely, mine own hand, founded the earth, And, my right hand, stretched out the heavens,—While I was calling unto them, they stood forth, at once
Assemble yourselves—all of you and hear, Who among them, hath told these things? he whom Yahweh loveth, will execute—His pleasure, on Babylon, And his stroke on the Chaldeans.
I—I, have spoken, Yea I have called him,—I have brought him in, and he shall make prosperous his way.
Draw ye near unto me—hear ye this, Not in advance in secret, have I spoken, From the very time it cometh into being, there, am I,—And, now, My Lord Yahweh hath sent me and his spirit.
Thus saith Yahweh—Thy Redeemer, The Holy One of Israel,—I—Yahweh, am thy God, Teaching thee to profit, Guiding thee in the way thou shouldest go.
Oh! that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments,—Then had been, like a river, thy prosperity, And, thy righteousness, like the waves of the sea:
Then had been, like the sand, thy seed, And, the offspring of thy body, like the grains thereof,—Neither cut off nor destroyed had been his name from before me.
Come ye forth out of Babylon, Flee from among the Chaldeans, With triumphant voice, tell ye—let this be heard, Let it go forth as far as the end of the earth,—Say ye—Yahweh hath redeemed his servant Jacob!
And they thirsted not, when, through dry places, he led them, Waters out of the rock, caused he to flow out to them,—Yea be cleft a rock and, there gushed out waters:
No well-being, saith Yahweh to the lawless,