Come, now, you rich men, weep and lament for your miseries that are coming upon you.
Your wealth is corrupted, and your garments are moth-eaten:
your gold and your silver are covered with rust; and their rust will be a testimony against you, and will eat your flesh as fire. You have heaped up treasures in the last days.
Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped your fields, which has been unjustly withheld by you, cries out: and the cries of those who have reaped, have entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts.
You have lived in pleasure on the earth, and been wanton; you have nourished your hearts, as in a day of slaughter.
You have condemned and killed the Just One: and he does not set himself against you.
Be patient, therefore, brethren, till the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer looks for the precious fruit of the earth, and waits patiently for it, till he receives the early and the latter rain.
Be you also patient, establish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draws near.
Indulge not in complaints against one another, brethren, lest you be condemned: behold, the judge stands before the door.
Take, my brethren, the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord, as an example of suffering evil, and of patience.
Behold, we count those happy who endure. You have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the final dealing of the Lord, that the Lord is very compassionate and merciful.
But above all things, my brethren, swear not, either by heaven, or by the earth, or with any other oath: but let your yes, be yes, and your no, be no, lest you fall into condemnation.
Is any one among you afflicted? let him pray. Is any one cheerful? let him sing praise.
Is any one among you sick? let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil, in the name of the Lord.
And the prayer of faith shall save the sick; and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, they shall be forgiven him.
Confess your faults one to another, and pray for one another, that you may be restored to health: the fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much.
Elijah was a man with passions like our own; and he earnestly prayed that it might not rain; and it did not rain on the land for three years and six months.
And he prayed again; and the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth its fruit.
Brethren, if any among you should err from the truth, and one should turn him back,
let him know that he who turns back a sinner from the error of his way, will save a soul from death, and cover a multitude of sins.