And when anyone offers an oblation of a meal offering to Jehovah, his oblation shall be of fine flour, and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense on it.
And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests, and he shall take out of it his handful of the fine flour of it, and of the oil of it, with all the frankincense of it. And the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And that which is left of the meal offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'. It is a thing most holy of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire.
And when thou offer an oblation of a meal offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
And if thy oblation be a meal offering of the baking-pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
Thou shall part it in pieces, and pour oil in it. It is a meal offering.
And if thy oblation be a meal offering of the frying-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
And thou shall bring the meal offering that is made of these things to Jehovah, and it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the altar.
And the priest shall take up from the meal offering the memorial of it, and shall burn it upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And that which is left of the meal offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'. It is a thing most holy of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire.
No meal offering, which ye shall offer to Jehovah, shall be made with leaven, for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, as an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
As an oblation of first-fruits ye shall offer them to Jehovah, but they shall not come up for a sweet savor on the altar.
And every oblation of thy meal offering thou shall season with salt, nor shall thou allow the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meal offering. With all thine oblations thou shall offer salt.
And if thou offer a meal offering of first-fruits to Jehovah, thou shall offer for the meal offering of thy first-fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, crushed grain of the fresh ear.
And thou shall put oil upon it, and lay frankincense on it. It is a meal offering.
And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the crushed grain of it, and part of the oil of it, with all the frankincense of it. It is an offering made by fire to Jehovah.