In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth;
and the earth being without form and empty, and darkness on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moving gently on the face of the waters,
then God said, Let light be! And there was light.
And God saw the light, that it was good, and God separated between the light and darkness.
And God called the light, Day. And He called the darkness, Night. And there was evening, and there was morning the first day.
And God said, Let an expanse be in the midst of the waters, and let it divide between the waters and the waters.
And God made the expanse, and He separated between the waters which were under the expanse and the waters which were above the expanse. And it was so.
And God called the expanse, Heavens. And there was evening, and there was morning the second day.
And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be collected to one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so.
And God called the dry land, Earth. And He called the collection of the waters, Seas. And God saw that it was good.
And God said, Let the earth sprout tender sprouts, the plant seeding seed, the fruit tree producing fruit according to its kind, whichever seed is in it on the earth. And it was so.
And the earth bore tender sprouts, the plant seeding seed according to its kind, and the fruit tree producing fruit according to its kind, whichever seed is in it. And God saw that it was good.
And there was evening, and there was morning the third day.
And God said, Let luminaries be in the expanse of the heavens, to divide between the day and the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and years.
And let them be for luminaries in the expanse of the heavens, to give light on the earth. And it was so.
And God made the two great luminaries: the great luminary to rule the day, and the small luminary and the stars to rule the night.
And God set them in the expanse of the heavens, to give light on the earth,
and to rule over the day and over the night; and to divide between the light and the darkness. And God saw that it was good.
And there was evening, and there was morning the fourth day.
And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarmers having a soul of life; and let the birds fly over the earth, on the face of the expanse of the heavens.
And God created the great sea animals, and all that creeps, having a living soul, which swarmed the waters, according to its kind; and every bird with wing according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas; and let the birds multiply in the earth.
And there was evening, and there was morning the fifth day.
And God said, Let the earth bring forth the soul of life according to its kind: cattle, and creepers, and its beasts of the earth, according to its kind. And it was so.
And God made the beasts of the earth according to its kind, and cattle according to its kind, and all creepers of the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
And God said, let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness; and let them rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over all the creepers creeping on the earth.
And God created the man in His own image; in the image of God He created him. He created them male and female.
And God blessed them; and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over birds of the heavens, and over all beasts creeping on the earth.
And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant seeding seed which is on the face of all the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree seeding seed; it shall be food for you.
And to every beast of the earth, and to all birds of the heavens, and to every creeper on the earth which has in it a living soul, every green plant is for food. And it was so.
And God saw everything that He had made and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning the sixth day.