Surely God is good to Israel, to such as are pure in heart.
But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had well nigh slipped.
For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
For there are no pangs in their death, but their strength is firm.
They are not in trouble as other men, nor are they plagued like other men.
Therefore pride is as a chain around their neck. Violence covers them as a garment.
Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish.
They scoff, and in wickedness utter oppression. They speak loftily.
They have set their mouth in the heavens, and their tongue walks through the earth.
Therefore his people return here, and waters of a full cup are drained by them.
And they say, How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?
Behold, these are the wicked, and those who always prosper. They have possessed wealth.
Surely in vain I have cleansed my heart, and washed my hands in innocence,
for all the day long I have been plagued, and chastened every morning.
If I had said, I will speak thus, behold, I would have dealt treacherously with the generation of thy sons.
When I thought how I might understand this, it was too painful for me,
until I went into the sanctuary of God, and considered their latter end.
Surely thou set them in slippery places. Thou cast them down to destruction.
How they have become a desolation in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors.
As a dream from awakening, O Lord, when thou waken, thou will despise their form.
For my soul was grieved, and I was pricked in my heart.
So I was brutish, and ignorant. I was a beast before thee.
Nevertheless I am continually with thee. Thou have held my right hand.
Thou will guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
Whom have I in heaven? And there is none upon earth that I desire besides thee.
My flesh and my heart fails, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
For, lo, those who are far from thee shall perish. Thou have destroyed all those who go a whoring from thee.
But it is good for me to draw near to God. I have made the lord Jehovah my refuge, that I may tell of all thy works.