A man who hardens his neck when reproved shall be suddenly broken, and there will be no healing.
When the righteous increase, the people rejoice; when the wicked rule, the people sigh.
He who loves wisdom gladdens his father, but a feeder of harlots wastes wealth.
A king establishes a land by justice, but he taking bribes tears it down.
A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his steps.
A snare is in the transgression of an evil man, but the righteous sing and rejoice.
The righteous attends to the cause of the weak; the wicked does not discern knowledge.
Scornful men puff against a city, but the wise turn away anger.
If a wise man disputes with a foolish man, either he shakes, or laughs, and there is no rest.
Men of blood hate the blameless, but the upright seek his soul.
A fool brings out all of his spirit, but holding back, the wise quiets it.
To a ruler who listens to lying words, all his ministers are wicked.
The poor and the injurious man meet together. Jehovah enlightens the eyes of both.
A king that truly judges the weak shall have his throne established forever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a boy sent off causes shame to his mother.
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increases; but the righteous shall see their fall.
Correct your son, and you will get rest, and it will give delight to your soul.
Where there is no vision, the people are unrestrained. But blessed is he, the keeper of the law.
A servant is not corrected by words; though he discerns, there is no answer.
Do you see a man hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than of him.
He pampering his servant from youth, even afterwards in his days he shall be his successor.
An angry man stirs up contention, and a furious one abounds in transgression.
The pride of man brings him low, but the humble of spirit takes hold of honor.
He who shares with a thief hates his soul; he hears an oath, but does not tell it .
The fear of man brings a snare, but he trusting Jehovah is set on high.
Many seek the face of the ruler, but the judgment of each man is from Jehovah.
An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, and the upright of way are an abomination to the wicked.