And it happened on the eighth day. Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel.
And he said to Aaron, Take a young calf for a sin offering, and a ram without blemish for a burnt offering, and offer before the LORD.
And speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Take a kid of the goats for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb of the first year, all without blemish, for a burnt offering.
Also take a young bull and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD, and a food offering mixed with oil. For today the LORD will appear to you.
And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tabernacle of the congregation. And all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD.
And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commanded that you should do. And the glory of the LORD shall appear to you.
And Moses said to Aaron, Go to the altar, and offer your sin offering and your burnt offerings, and make an atonement for yourself and for the people. And offer the offering of the people, and make an atonement for them, even as the LORD commanded.
Aaron then went to the altar and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him. And he dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar.
But he burned the fat and the kidneys and the fold above the liver of the sin offering on the altar, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And he burned the flesh and the hide with fire outside the camp.
And he killed the burnt offering. And Aaron's sons presented to him the blood, which he sprinkled all around on the altar.
And they presented the burnt offering to him, with the pieces of it, and the head. And he burned them on the altar.
And he washed the inward parts and the legs, and burned them on the burnt offering on the altar.
And he brought the people's offering. And he took the goat, the sin offering for the people, and killed it and offered it for sin as the first.
And he brought the burnt offering and offered it according to the ordinance.
And he brought the food offering and took a handful of it, and burned it on the altar besides the burnt sacrifice of the morning.
He also killed the young bull and the ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings for the people. And Aaron's sons presented to him the blood, which he sprinkled on the altar all around.
And they brought the fat of the young bull and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the inward parts, and the kidneys, and the fold above the liver.
And they put the fat on the breasts, and he burned the fat on the altar.
And the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron waved for a wave offering before the Lord, as Moses commanded.
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them, and came down from offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and peace offerings.
And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation, and came out and blessed the people. And the glory of the LORD appeared to all the people.
And there came a fire out from before the LORD, and burned up the burnt offering and the fat on the altar. And all the people saw and shouted and fell on their faces.