Better is a dry piece of bread, and quietness with it, than a house full of sacrifices with fighting.
A servant who acts prudently shall rule over a son who causes shame, and he shall have part of the inheritance among the brothers.
The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, but Jehovah tries the hearts.
An evildoer gives heed to false lips; a liar listens to a tongue of evil desire.
Whoever scorns the poor reviles his Maker, he who rejoices at calamity shall not be innocent.
Grandsons are the crown of old men, and the glory of sons are their fathers.
An arrogant lip is not fitting for a fool, much less are lying lips for a noble.
A bribe is a precious stone in the eyes of him who possesses it; everywhere he turns, he is prudent.
He who covers a transgression seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates friends.
A reproof enters more into a wise man than a hundred stripes into a fool.
A rebel seeks evil, so a cruel messenger is sent against him.
Let a bear bereaved of her cubs meet a man, rather than a fool in his foolishness.
Whoever rewards evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
The beginning of strife is like the releasing of water, therefore leave off fighting before it breaks out.
He who justifies the wicked, and he who condemns the just, even both of them are disgusting to Jehovah.
Why is there hire in a fool's hand to get wisdom, and there is no heart for it ?
A friend loves at every time, but a brother is born for the time of trouble.
A man lacking heart strikes the palm, he pledges in the presence of his friend.
He loving strife loves rebellion, he who exalts his door seeks shattering.
One crooked of heart does not find good, and he who is perverse in his tongue falls into evil.
He who fathers a fool has sorrow for it; yea, the father of a fool has no joy.
A cheerful heart makes good healing, but a stricken spirit dries the bone.
The wicked takes a bribe out of the bosom to pervert the paths of justice.
With the face of the wise is wisdom, but a fool's eyes are in the ends of the earth.
A foolish son is a vexation to his father, and bitterness to her who bore him.
And it is not good to punish the just, to strike leaders for uprightness.
He who restrains his words knows knowledge, and one rare of spirit is a man of understanding.
Even a fool who is silent is counted wise, he who shuts his lips is counted as understanding.