To the Chief Musician, on the deer of the dawn. A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why have You forsaken me, and are far from my deliverance, and from the words of my groaning?
O my God, I cry in the daytime, but You do not answer; and in the night, and am not silent.
But You are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel.
Our fathers trusted in You; they trusted, and You delivered them.
They cried to You, and were delivered; they trusted in You, and were not ashamed.
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised by the people.
All who see me laugh me to scorn; they shoot out the lip; they shake the head, saying,
He trusted on the LORD; let Him deliver him; let Him rescue him, since He delights in him!
For You are He who took me out of the womb, causing me to trust when I was on my mother's breasts.
I was cast on You from the womb; You are my God from my mother's belly.
Be not far from me; for trouble is near, for there is none to help.
Many bulls have circled around me; strong bulls of Bashan have surrounded me.
They opened wide their mouths on me, like a ripping and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are spread apart; my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue clings to my jaws;
and You have brought me into the dust of death. For dogs have circled around me; the band of spoilers have hemmed me in, piercers of my hands and my feet.
I can count all my bones; they look and stare at me.
They divide my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing.
But You, O LORD, be not far from me; O my strength, hurry to help me!
Deliver my soul from the sword, my only one from the dog's hand.
Save me from the lion's mouth; from the wild oxen's horns. You have answered me.
I will declare Your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise You.
You who fear the LORD, praise Him; all of you, the seed of Jacob, glorify Him; and fear Him all the seed of Israel.
For He has not despised nor hated the affliction of the afflicted; and He has not hidden His face from him, but when he cried to Him, He heard.
My praise shall be of You in the great congregation; I will pay my vows before the ones who fear Him.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek the LORD shall praise Him; your heart shall live forever.
All the ends of the world shall remember and turn to the LORD; and all the families of the nations shall worship before You.
For the kingdom is the LORD's; and He is the ruler among the nations.
All the fat ones on the earth shall eat and worship; all those who go down to the dust shall bow before Him; and none can keep alive his own soul.
A seed shall serve Him; it shall be spoken of the LORD to the coming generation.
They shall come, and shall declare His righteousness to a people that shall yet be born, that He has done this.