Then came up Nahash the Ammonite, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead,—and all the man of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Solemnise with us a covenant, that we may serve thee.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, Hereby, will I solemnise [a covenant] with you by digging out for you, every one’s right eye,—and laying it for a reproach, upon all Israel.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him—Give us a respite of seven days, that we may send messengers throughout all the bounds of Israel,—and then, if there is none to save us, we will come out unto thee.
And, when the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake the words in the ears of the people, all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
But lo! Saul, came in, following the oxen, out of the field, and Saul said, What aileth the people, that they should weep? Then were recounted to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And the Spirit of God came suddenly upon Saul, when he heard these words,—and his anger raged furiously.
So he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent throughout all the bounds of Israel by the hand of messengers—saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul, and after Samuel, so, shall it be done unto his oxen. Then felt the dread of Yahweh, upon the people, and they came forth, as one man.
And, when he numbered them in Bezek, the sons of Israel were found to be—three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
So they said unto the messengers who had come—Thus, shall ye surely say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, shall ye have deliverance, about the time the son is hot. And, when the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, they rejoiced.
So the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow, will we come out unto you,—Then shall ye do with us, according to all that is good in your eyes.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three companies, and they entered into the midst of the host, during the morning watch, and smote Ammon until the day was hot. And it came to pass that, they who were left, were scattered, so that there were not left among them, two together.
Then said the people unto Samuel, Who is he that was saying, Shall, Saul, reign over us? Give up the men, that we may put them to death.
But Saul said, There shall not be put to death a man, this day,—for, to-day, hath Yahweh wrought deliverance in Israel.
Then said Samuel unto the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal,—and let us there renew the kingdom.
So all the people went to Gilgal, and made Saul king there, before Yahweh, in Gilgal, and offered there sacrifices of peace-offerings before Yahweh,—and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced there, exceedingly.