After these things, withdrawing from Athens, he came unto Corinth;
and, finding a certain Jew, by name Aquila, of Pontus by birth,—lately come from Italy, and Priscilla his wife, because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to be leaving Rome, he came unto them,
and, because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought, for they were tent-makers by their trade.
And he began reasoning in the synagogue every sabbath, and was persuading both Jews and Greeks.
When, however, both Silas and Timothy had come down from Macedonia, Paul began to be urged on in the word, bearing full witness unto the Jews that, Jesus, was, the Christ.
But, as they began opposing and defaming, shaking out his garments, he said unto them—Your blood, be upon your own head! Pure, am, I: henceforth, unto the nations, will I go.
And, removing from thence, he came into the house of a certain man by name Titius Justus, who worshipped God, whose house was adjoining unto the synagogue.
But, Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, with all his house. And, many of the Corinthians, hearing, were believing, and being immersed.
And the Lord said by night, through means of a vision, unto Paul—Be not afraid! but be speaking,—and do not hold thy peace;
Inasmuch as, I, am with thee, and, no one, shall set upon thee to harm thee; inasmuch as I have much people in this city.
And he remained a year and six months, teaching among them the word of God.
But, when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews, with one accord, set upon Paul, and led him unto the judgment-seat,
saying—Contrary to the law, is this one seducing men to be worshipping God.
But, as Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews—If, indeed, it had been some wrong or wicked recklessness, O Jews, with reason, in that case, should I have been bearing with you.
If, however, they are questions concerning discourse, and names, and law, that which ye have, ye shall see to it, yourselves; A judge of these things, I, am not disposed to be.
And he drove them from the judgment-seat.
But they all, laying hold of Sosthenes the ruler of the synagogue, began to strike him before the judgment-seat; and, for none of these things, did Gallio care.
Paul, however, still further abiding a good many days with the brethren, bidding them adieu, set sail for Syria; and, with him, Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchreae, for he had a vow.
And they came down to Ephesus; and, as for them, he left them there,—but, himself entering into the synagogue, he reasoned with the Jews.
And, when they requested him for a longer time to abide, he consented not;
but, bidding them adieu, and saying—Again, will I return unto you, God willing, he sailed away from Ephesus;
and, putting in at Caesarea, going up and saluting the assembly, went down unto Antioch;
and, spending some time, he went forth, passing through, in order, the country of Galatia and Phrygia, confirming all the disciples.
But, a certain Jew, Apollos by name, an Alexandrian by birth, a learned man, came down to Ephesus, being, mighty, in the Scriptures.
The same, had been orally taught the way of the Lord, and, being fervent in his spirit, began speaking and teaching accurately, the things concerning Jesus,—properly knowing, only the immersion of John.
The same, also began speaking boldly in the synagogue; and Priscilla and Aquila, hearing him, took him unto them, and, more accurately, expounded unto him the way of God.
And, he being minded to pass through into Achaia, the brethren urgently wrote unto the disciples to welcome him,—who, arriving, was very useful unto them who had believed, with his gift;
for, with great force, began he confuting the Jews, publicly, shewing by the Scriptures that Jesus was, the Christ.