Bvt now they that are yonger then I, mocke me: yea, they whose fathers I haue refused to set with the dogges of my flockes.
For whereto shoulde the strength of their handes haue serued mee, seeing age perished in them?
For pouertie and famine they were solitary, fleeing into the wildernes, which is darke, desolate and waste.
They cut vp nettels by the bushes, and the iuniper rootes was their meate.
They were chased forth from among men: they shouted at them, as at a theefe.
Therfore they dwelt in the clefts of riuers, in the holes of the earth and rockes.
They roared among the bushes, and vnder the thistles they gathered themselues.
They were the children of fooles and the children of villaines, which were more vile then the earth.
And now am I their song, and I am their talke.
They abhorre me, and flee farre from mee, and spare not to spit in my face.
Because that God hath loosed my corde and humbled mee, they haue loosed the bridle before me.
The youth rise vp at my right hand: they haue pusht my feete, and haue trode on me as on the paths of their destruction.
They haue destroyed my paths: they tooke pleasure at my calamitie, they had none helpe.
They came as a great breach of waters, and vnder this calamitie they come on heapes.
Feare is turned vpon mee: and they pursue my soule as the winde, and mine health passeth away as a cloude.
Therefore my soule is nowe powred out vpon me, and the dayes of affliction haue taken holde on me.
It pearceth my bones in the night, and my sinewes take no rest.
For the great vehemencie is my garment changed, which compasseth me about as the colar of my coate.
He hath cast me into the myre, and I am become like ashes and dust.
Whe I cry vnto thee, thou doest not heare me, neither regardest me, when I stand vp.
Thou turnest thy selfe cruelly against me, and art enemie vnto mee with the strength of thine hand.
Thou takest me vp and causest mee to ride vpon the winde, and makest my strength to faile.
Surely I knowe that thou wilt bring mee to death, and to the house appoynted for all the liuing.
Doubtles none can stretch his hand vnto the graue, though they cry in his destruction.
Did not I weepe with him that was in trouble? was not my soule in heauinesse for the poore?
Yet when I looked for good, euill came vnto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkenesse.
My bowels did boyle without rest: for the dayes of affliction are come vpon me.
I went mourning without sunne: I stood vp in the congregation and cryed.
I am a brother to the dragons, and a companion to the ostriches.
My skinne is blacke vpon me, and my bones are burnt with heate.
Therefore mine harpe is turned to mourning, and mine organs into the voyce of them that weepe.