Let brotherly love continue.
Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for, by this means, some have unconsciously entertained angels.
Remember those who are in bonds, as if you yourselves had been bound, and those who suffer affliction, since you yourselves are in the body.
Marriage is honorable among all men, and the bed undefiled; but lewd men and adulterers God will judge.
Let there be no money-loving disposition; be content with such things as you have. For he has said: I will never leave you, nor will I ever forsake you.
So, then, we may boldly say: The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man will do to me.
Remember those who rule over you, who have spoken to you the word of God: attentively consider the result of their conduct, and imitate their faith.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, and to-day, and forever.
Be not carried away by various and strange teachings: for it is good that the heart be strengthened with grace, not with meats, which have not profited those who were occupied with them.
We have a sacrifice, of which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat.
For the bodies of those animals whose blood, shed for sin, is carried by the high priest into the holiest, are burned without the camp.
Wherefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.
Therefore, let us go forth to him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
For here we have no abiding city, but we seek one to come.
Through him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name.
But forget not to do good, and to be liberal: for with such, sacrifices God is well pleased.
Obey those who rule over you, and be submissive: for they watch for your souls, as those who must give an account; that they may do this with joy, and not with grief: for that would be fatal to you.
Pray for us: for we trust that we have a good conscience, willing to live honorably in all things.
And I the more earnestly entreat you to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
Now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, the great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the eternal covenant,
perfect you in every good work, in order that you may do his will, working in you that which is acceptable in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory from age to age. Amen.
I beseech you, brethren, bear with my word of exhortation: for I have written to you in few words.
Know that our brother Timothy is set at liberty, with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
Salute all your rulers, and all the saints. The saints of Italy salute you.   Grace be with you all. Amen.
