And when a person sins, and hears the voice of swearing, and he is a witness, or has seen, or has known, if he does not reveal it, then he shall bear his iniquity.
Or if a soul touches any unclean thing, or the unclean dead body of an animal, or the unclean dead body of livestock, or the dead body of unclean swarming things, it being hidden from him that he is unclean and is guilty,
or if he touches the uncleanness of man, any of his uncleanness by which he is unclean, and it is hidden from him, and he knows, then he is guilty.
Or if a person swears, speaking rashly with the lips, to do evil, or to do good, anything which the man speaks rashly with an oath. and it is hidden from him, and he knows, then he is guilty of one of these.
And it shall be when he is guilty of one of these, then he shall confess that in which he has sinned.
And he shall bring his guilt offering to Jehovah for his sin which he has sinned, a female out of the flock, a lamb, or a doe of the goats, for a sin offering. And the priest shall atone for him regarding his sin.
And if his hand does not reach to a lamb, then he shall bring his guilt offering, he who has sinned, two turtledoves, or two offspring of a dove, to Jehovah; one for a sin offering, and one for a burnt offering.
And he shall bring them to the priest, who shall bring near for a sin offering first. And he shall nip off its head from its neck, but shall not divide it .
And he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar, and that which remains of the blood shall be drained at the base of the altar; it is a sin offering.
And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering, as by decree. And the priest shall atone for him, because of his sin which he has sinned; and it shall be forgiven him.
And if his hand cannot reach to two turtledoves, or two offspring of a dove, then he who sinned shall bring his offering, a tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall not put oil on it, nor put frankincense on it; for it is a sin offering.
And he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take from it his full handful, the memorial offering, and shall burn it as incense on the altar, on the fire offering of Jehovah; it is a sin offering.
And the priest shall atone for him, for his sin which he sinned from one of these; and it shall be forgiven him. And it shall be for the priest as a food offering.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses saying:
If a person commits a trespass and sins in ignorance against the holy things of Jehovah, then he shall bring his guilt offering to Jehovah, a ram, a perfect one out of the flock, at your evaluation in silver shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary, for a guilt offering.
And he shall make good that in which he sinned against the holy thing, and he shall add its fifth part to it, and give it to the priest. And the priest shall atone for him with the ram of the guilt offering; and it shall be forgiven him.
And if a person sins, and he has done that which is not to be done from any one of all the commands of Jehovah, and does not know, and he is guilty, and bears his iniquity,
then he shall bring a ram, a perfect one from the flock, at your evaluation for a guilt offering to the priest. And the priest shall atone for him, for his sin of ignorance which he erred, and he did not know; and it shall be forgiven him.
It is a guilt offering; truly he is guilty before the face of Jehovah.