And he made the altar for the ascending-sacrifice of acacia wood,—five cubits, the length thereof and, five cubits, the breadth thereof foursquare, and, three cubits, the height thereof.
And he made the horns thereof, upon the four corners thereof, of the same, were the horns thereof,—and he overlaid it with bronze.
And he made all the utensils of the altar—the pans and the shovels, and the sprinkling bowls, the flesh-hooks and the fire-pans,—all the utensils thereof, made he of bronze.
And he made to the altar a grating, of network of bronze,—under the margin thereof beneath as far as the midst thereof.
And he cast four rings in the four corners to the grating of bronze,—as receptacles for the staves,
And he made the staves of acacia wood,—and overlaid them with bronze.
And he brought the staves into the rings, upon the sides of the altar, to lift it therewith,—hollow with boards, did he make it.
And he made the laver of bronze, and the stand thereof of bronze,—with the mirrors of the female hosts who did service at the opening of the tent of meeting.
And he made the court,—on the south side southward, the hangings of the court of fine twined linen, a hundred cubits;
their pillars, twenty, and their sockets twenty, of bronze,—the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods, of silver:
and, on the north side, a hundred cubits, their pillars, twenty, and, their sockets twenty, of bronze,—the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods, of silver.
And on the west side, hangings, fifty cubits, their pillars, ten, and, their sockets, ten,—and, the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods, of silver.
And on the east side towards the dawn, fifty cubits:
hangings, fifteen cubits, for the side-piece,—their pillars, three, and, their sockets three;
and, for the second sidepiece on this side and on that of the gate of the court, hangings, fifteen cubits,—their pillars three, and their sockets, three.
All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen.
And, the sockets for the pillars, were of bronze, the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods of silver,—and the overlaying of their capitals, was silver,—and, they themselves, were filleted with silver, even all the pillars of the court,
And, the screen of the gate of the court was the work of an embroiderer, blue and purple and crimson, and fine-twined linen,—and, twenty cubits, in length, and the height, according to the breadth, of five cubits, to match the curtains of the court;
and, their pillars, were four, and, their sockets, four, of bronze,—their hooks, of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their connecting-rods, of silver.
And, all the pins for the habitation, and for the court round about, of bronze.
These, are the details of the habitation—the habitation of testimony, which were detailed at the bidding of Moses,—the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest.
So then Bezaleel son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that Yahweh had commanded Moses.
And, with him, was Oholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an artificer and skilful weaver,—and an embroiderer—in blue, and in purple and in crimson and in fine linen.
As for all the gold that was used for, the work, in all the construction of the sanctuary, it came to pass that the gold of the wave-offering was nine-and-twenty talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels by the shekel of the sanctuary.
And, the silver of them who were numbered of the assembly, was one hundred talents,—and one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five shekels by the shekel of the sanctuary;
a bekah per head, that is a half shekel, by the shekel of the sanctuary, for all that passed over to them who had been numbered, from twenty years old and upwards, for six hundred and three thousand, and five hundred and fifty.
And it came to pass that the hundred talents of silver were used for casting the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the veil,—one hundred sockets with the hundred talents a talent for a socket.
And with the thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five, made the hooks for the pillars,—and overlaid their capitals and united them with connecting-rods.
And the bronze of the wave-offering, was seventy talents,—and two thousand and four hundred shekels.
And he made therewith, the sockets for the opening of the tent of meeting, and the altar of bronze and the grating of bronze which pertained thereto,—and all the utensils of the altar,
and the sockets for the court round about, and the sockets for the gate of the court,—and all the pins for the habitation and all the pins for the court round about.