And it came to pass, when Yahweh was about to take up Elijah in a storm into the heavens, that Elijah departed, with Elisha, from Gilgal.
Then said Elijah unto Elisha—Tarry here, I pray thee, for, Yahweh, hath sent me as far as Bethel. And Elisha said, By the life of Yahweh and by the life of thine own soul, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel.
And the sons of the prophets who were in Bethel came forth unto Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that, to-day, Yahweh is taking away thy lord, from thy head? And he said—I also, know, be silent.
Then Elijah said to him—Elisha, I pray thee, tarry here, for, Yahweh, hath sent me to Jericho. And he said—By the life of Yahweh and by the life of thine own soul, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho.
Then drew near the sons of the prophets who were in Jericho, unto Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that, to-day, Yahweh is taking away thy lord from thy head? And he said—I also, know; be silent.
And Elijah said to him—Tarry here, I pray thee, for, Yahweh, hath sent me to the Jordan. And he said—By the life of Yahweh and by the life of thine own soul, I will not leave thee. So they two, went on.
But, fifty men of the sons of the prophets, came, and stood over against them, afar off,—and, they two, stood by the Jordan.
Then Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and smote the waters, and they were divided, hither and thither,—so that they two, passed over, on dry ground.
And it came to pass, as they went over, that, Elijah, said unto Elisha—Ask, what I shall do for thee, ere yet I be taken from thee. And Elisha said, Let there be, I pray thee, a double portion of thy spirit upon me.
And he said—Thou hast asked a hard thing,—if thou see me when taken from thee, thou shall have it, so, but, if not, thou shalt not have it.
And it came to pass, as they were going on and on and talking, that lo! there was a chariot of fire, with horses of fire, which parted, those two, asunder,—and Elijah went up in a storm, into the heavens.
And, as soon as Elisha saw it, he, began crying out—My father! my father! The chariots of Israel, and the horsemen thereof! But, when he could see him no longer, he took hold of his clothes, and rent them in two pieces.
Then took he up the mantle of Elijah, which had fallen from him,—and returned and stood, on the brink of the Jordan;
and took the mantle of Elijah which had fallen from him, and smote the waters, and said, Where is Yahweh, the God of Elijah? And, when, he also, smote the waters, they were divided, hither and thither, and Elisha, passed over.
And, when the sons of the prophets who were in Jericho, over against him, saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah, resteth, on Elisha. So they came to meet him, and bowed themselves down to him, to the ground.
Then said they unto him—Lo! we pray thee, there are with thy servants fifty men, sons of valour—let them go, we pray thee, and seek thy lord, lest the Spirit of Yahweh have borne him away, and cast him on one of the mountains, or into one of the valleys. And he said—Ye shall not send.
But, when they urged him until he was ashamed, he said—Send. So they sent fifty men, and made search three days, but found him not.
And, when they came back unto him, he, having tarried at Jericho, he said unto them, Did I not say unto you, Do not go?
And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Lo! we pray thee, the situation of the city, is good, as, my lord, seeth,—but, the waters, are bad, and, the land, apt to miscarry.
And he said—Bring me a new bowl, and put therein, salt. So they brought it unto him;
and he went forth unto the spring of the waters, and cast therein, saith,—and said—Thus, saith Yahweh, I have healed these waters; there shall come from thence, no longer, death or aptness to miscarry.
So the waters were healed, [as they remain] unto this day,—according to the word of Elisha which he spake.
And he went up from thence, to Bethel,—and, as he was going up on the way, some lads, came forth, out of the city, and made mockery of him, and said to him, Go up, bald head! Go up, bald head!
And, when he turned round and saw them, he cursed them, in the name of Yahweh,—and there came forth two she-bears out of the wood, and tare, of them, forty-two youths.
And he went from thence, unto Mount Carmel,—and, from thence, he returned, to Samaria.