Let, every soul, unto protecting authorities be in subjection; for there is no authority save by God, and, they that are in being, have by God been arranged,—
So that, he who rangeth himself against the authority, against the arrangement of God opposeth himself, and, they who oppose, shall unto themselves a sentence of judgment receive.
For, they who bear rule, are not a terror unto the good work but unto the evil. Wouldst thou not be afraid of the authority? That which is good, be thou doing, and thou shall have praise of the same;
For, God’s minister, is he unto thee for that which is good. But, if, that which is evil, thou be doing, be afraid! For, not in vain, the sword he beareth; for, God’s minister, he is,—an avenger, unto anger, to him who practiseth what is evil.
Wherefore it is necessary to be in subjection,—not only because of the anger, but also because of the conscience;
For, because of this, are ye paying tribute also,—for, God’s ministers of state, they are, unto this very thing, giving constant attendance.
Render unto all their dues,—unto whom tribute, tribute, unto whom tax, tax, unto whom fear, fear, unto whom honour, honour.
Nothing to any, be owing—save to be loving one another; for, he that loveth his neighbour, hath given to, law, its fulfillment.
For, this—Thou shall not commit adultery, Thou shall not commit murder, Thou shall not steal, Thou shall not covet, and if there is any different commandment, in this word, is summed up, [namely]—Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
Love, unto one’s neighbour, worketh not ill; Law’s fullness, therefore, is, love.
And, this besides,—knowing the season—that it is an hour already for you out of sleep to be wakened; for, now, is our salvation nearer than when we believed:
The night, is far spent and, the day, hath drawn near; let us, then, cast off the works of darkness, [and] let us put on the armour of light,—
As in daytime, becomingly let us walk: not in revellings and in drunken bouts, not in chamberings and in wanton deeds, not in strife and envy;—
But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and, for the flesh, take not forethought to fulfil its covetings.