And David made houses for himself in the City of David, and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched a tent for it.
Then David said, No one ought to carry the ark of God except the Levites, for God has chosen them to carry the ark of God, and to minister to Him forever.
And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the LORD to its place which He had prepared for it.
And David gathered the sons of Aaron, and the Levites.
From the sons of Kohath: Uriel the chief, and a hundred and twenty of his brothers.
From the sons of Merari: Asaiah the chief, and two hundred and twenty of his brothers.
From the sons of Gershom: Joel the chief, and a hundred and thirty of his brothers.
From the sons of Elizaphan: Shemaiah the chief and two hundred of his brothers.
From the sons of Hebron: Eliel the chief and eighty of his brothers.
From the sons of Uzziel: Amminadab the chief and a hundred and twelve of his brothers.
And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab.
And he said to them, You are the heads of the fathers of the Levites. Sanctify yourselves, you and your brothers, so that you may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel to the place which I have prepared for it.
For because you did not do it at the first, the LORD our God made a break on us, since we did not seek Him in due order.
And the priests and the Levites made themselves pure in order to bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel.
And the sons of the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders, with the staves on it, as Moses commanded according to the word of the LORD.
And David spoke to the chief of the Levites to choose their brothers to be the singers with instruments of music, lyres, and harps, and cymbals, sounding by lifting the voice with joy.
And the Levites chose Heman the son of Joel, and of his brothers, Asaph the son of Berechiah. And from the sons of Merari their brothers, was Ethan the son of Kushaiah.
And with them were their brothers of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the gatekeepers.
And the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan were chosen to sound with cymbals of bronze;
and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with harps set to Alamoth.
And Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, were to lead with lyres on the octave.
And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song. He instructed about the song, because he was skillful.
And Berechiah and Elkanah were gatekeepers for the ark.
And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, blew with the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obed-edom and Jehiah were gatekeepers for the ark.
And it happened, David and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the house of Obed-edom with joy.
And it happened as God helped the Levites who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD, they offered seven bulls and seven rams.
And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites who carried the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the song with the singers. David also had on him an ephod of linen.
And all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding aloud with harps and lyres.
And it happened as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the City of David, Michal the daughter of Saul, looking out a window, saw king David dancing and playing. And she despised him in her heart.