And it happened, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
And you, son of man, so says the Lord Jehovah to the land of Israel: An end! The end has come on the four corners of the land.
The end is now on you, and I will send My anger on you and will judge you according to your ways and will lay on you all your abominations.
And My eye shall not spare you, and I will not have pity. But I will lay your ways on you, and your abominations shall be in your midst, and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
So says the Lord Jehovah: An evil! An only evil! Behold, it has come!
An end has come, the end has come! It has awakened against you, behold, it has come!
The encirclement has come to you, O dwellers of the land. The time has come, the day of tumult is near, and not a shout of the hills.
I will soon pour out My fury on you and fulfill My anger on you. And I will judge you according to your ways and will put on you all your abominations.
And My eye shall not spare, and I will not have pity; I will put on you according to your ways and your abominations that are in your midst. And you shall know that I am Jehovah who strikes.
Behold the day! Behold, it has come, the encirclement has gone out, the rod has blossomed, and pride has budded.
Violence has risen for a rod of wickedness. None of them shall remain , even none of their multitude, and none of their riches, and none eminent among them.
The time has come, the day has arrived. Do not let the buyer rejoice, and do not let the sellers mourn, for wrath is on all her multitude.
For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they still are among the living (for the vision is to all her multitude, and it shall not return); and a man shall not hold his life strong in his iniquity.
They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready, but no one goes to the battle, for My wrath is on all her multitude.
The sword is outside, and the plague, and the famine are inside. He who is in the field shall die with the sword. And he who is in the city, famine and plague shall devour him.
But if their fugitives shall escape, then they shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, each for his iniquity.
All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall go as water.
They shall also gird on sackcloth, and trembling shall cover them. And shame shall be on all faces, and baldness on all heads.
They shall throw their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be an impure thing. Their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of Jehovah. They shall not satisfy their soul, and they shall not fill their bowels, for their iniquity has become a stumbling-block for them .
And the beauty of His ornament, He set it in majesty. But they made it the images of their abominations, and of their hateful things. Therefore, I have put it to them as an impure thing.
And I will also give it into the hand of the strangers for a prize, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil. And they shall defile it.
I also will turn My face from them, and they shall defile My hidden place . And violent ones shall enter into it and defile it.
Take the chain, for the land is full of bloody judgments, and the city is full of violence.
And I will bring the most evil of the nations, and they shall possess their houses. And I will make cease the pomp of the strong ones, and their holy places shall be defiled.
Anguish comes! And they shall seek peace, but none shall be .
Disaster on disaster shall come, and rumor to rumor shall be. And they shall seek a vision from the prophet, but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders.
The king shall mourn, and the ruler shall be clothed with despair. And the hands of the people of the land shall be terrified. According to their way, I will do to them, and according to their judgments, I will judge them. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.