But, on the first day of the week, Mary the Magdalene, cometh early, while it is yet, dark, unto the tomb,—and beholdeth the stone, already taken away out of the tomb.
She runneth, therefore, and cometh unto Simon Peter, and unto the other disciple whom Jesus dearly loved, and saith unto them—They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we know not where they have laid him.
Peter, therefore, went out, and the other disciple,—and they were going unto the tomb;
and the two were running together, and, the other disciple, outran Peter, and came first unto the tomb;
and, stooping aside, beholdeth, lying, the linen-bandages, nevertheless, he entered not.
So Simon Peter also cometh, following him, and entered into the tomb, and vieweth the linen-bandages lying,—
and the napkin, which was upon his head, not, with the linen-bandages, lying, but apart, folded up into one place.
Then, entered, therefore, the other disciple also, who had come first unto the tomb, and he saw and believed.
For, not yet, knew they the Scripture, that he must needs, from among the dead, arise.
The disciples, therefore, departed again, by themselves.
Howbeit, Mary, remained standing against the tomb, outside, weeping. So then, as she wept, she stooped aside into the tomb,
and beholdeth two messengers, in white garments, sitting, one at the head, and the other at the feet, where had been lying the body of Jesus.
And, they, say unto her—Woman! why weepest thou? She saith unto them—They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.
These things saying, she turned round, and seeth Jesus standing, and knew not that it was, Jesus.
Jesus saith unto her—Woman! why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing he was, the gardener, saith unto him—Sir! If, thou, hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him; and, I, will take him away.
Jesus saith unto her—Mary! She, turning saith unto him, in Hebrew—Rabboni! which meaneth, Teacher.
Jesus saith unto her—Be not detaining me, for, not yet, have I ascended unto the Father; but be going unto my disciples, and say unto them—I am ascending unto my Father and your Father, and my God and your God.
Mary the Magdalene cometh, bringing tidings unto the disciples—I have seen the Lord! and that these things he had said unto her.
It being late, therefore, on that day, the first of the week,—and, the doors, having been made fast where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came, and stood in the midst, and saith unto them—Peace be unto you!
and, this, saying he pointed out both his hands and his side unto them. The disciples, therefore, rejoiced, seeing the Lord.
Jesus, therefore, said unto them, again,—Peace be unto you! Just as, my Father, sent me forth, I, also, send you.
And, this, saying, he breathed strongly, and saith unto them—Receive ye Holy Spirit:—
Whosesoever sins ye shall remit, they are remitted unto them, whosesoever ye shall retain, they are retained.
But, Thomas, one of the twelve, the one called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
The other disciples, therefore, were saying unto him—We have seen the Lord! But, he, said unto them—Except I see, in his hands, the print of the nails, and press my finger into the print of the nails, and press my hand into his side, in nowise will I believe.
And, eight days after, his disciples again were within, and Thomas with them. Jesus cometh—the doors having been made fast—and stood in the midst, and said—Peace be unto you!
Then, saith he unto Thomas—Reach thy finger hither, and see my hands, and reach thy hand, and press into my side,—and become not disbelieving, but believing.
Thomas answered, and said unto him—My Lord, and my God!
Jesus saith unto him—Because thou hast seen me, hast thou believed? Happy, they who have not seen, and yet have believed!
Many other signs, doubtless, did Jesus, in presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;
but, these, are written, that ye may believe that, Jesus, is, the Christ, the Son of God; and that, believing, ye may have life in his name.