And it came to pass, when Jehovah would take up Elijah by a whirlwind into heaven, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.
And Elijah said to Elisha, Remain here, I pray thee, for Jehovah has sent me as far as Bethel. And Elisha said, As Jehovah lives, and as thy soul lives, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel.
And the sons of the prophets who were at Bethel came forth to Elisha, and said to him, Do thou know that Jehovah will take away thy master from thy head today? And he said, Yes, I know it; hold ye your peace.
And Elijah said to him, Elisha, remain here, I pray thee, for Jehovah has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As Jehovah lives, and as thy soul lives, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho.
And the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho came near to Elisha, and said to him, Do thou know that Jehovah will take away thy master from thy head today? And he answered, Yes, I know it; hold ye your peace.
And Elijah said to him, Remain here, I pray thee, for Jehovah has sent me to the Jordan. And he said, As Jehovah lives, and as thy soul lives, I will not leave thee. And the two went on.
And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood opposite them afar off. And the two stood by the Jordan.
And Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and struck the waters, and they were divided here and there, so that the two went over on dry ground.
And it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee before I am taken from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me.
And he said, Thou have asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so to thee, but if not, it shall not be so.
And it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, which divided them both apart. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen of it! And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes, and tore them in two pieces.
He also took up the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of the Jordan.
And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and struck the waters, and said, Where is Jehovah, the God of Elijah? And when he also had smitten the waters, they were divided here and there, and Elisha went over.
And when the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho opposite him saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha. And they came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.
And they said to him, Behold now, there are fifty strong men with thy servants. Let them go, we pray thee, and seek thy master, lest the Spirit of Jehovah has taken him up, and cast him upon some mountain, or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall not send.
And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. Therefore they sent fifty men. And they sought three days, but did not find him.
And they came back to him while he remained at Jericho. And he said to them, Did I not say to you, Do not go?
And the men of the city said to Elisha, Behold, we pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees, but the water is bad, and the ground barren.
And he said, Bring me a new cruse, and put salt therein. And they brought it to him.
And he went forth to the spring of the waters, and cast salt therein, and said, Thus says Jehovah, I have healed these waters. There shall not be from there any more death or barren land.
So the waters were healed to this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spoke.
And he went up from there to Bethel. And as he was going up by the way, there came forth young lads out of the city, and mocked him, and said to him, Go up, thou baldhead; go up, thou baldhead.
And he looked behind him and saw them, and cursed them in the name of Jehovah. And there came forth two she-bears out of the wood, and tore forty-two lads of them.
And he went from there to mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.