And the sons of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah when Ehud was dead.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin the king of Canaan, who ruled in Hazor. And his army commander was Sisera; and he lived in Harosheth of the nations.
And the sons of Israel cried to Jehovah, for he had nine hundred chariots of iron. And he mightily oppressed the sons of Israel twenty years.
And Deborah the wife of Lapidoth, a woman prophetess, was judging Israel at that time.
And she lived under the palm tree of Deborah, between Ramah and Bethel, in the hills of Ephraim. And the sons of Israel went up to her for judgment.
And she sent and called for Barak, the son of Abinoam, out of Kadesh in Naphtali, and said to him, Has not Jehovah the God of Israel commanded? Go and draw toward Mount Tabor, and take ten thousand men of the sons of Naphtali, and of the sons of Zebulun with you.
And I will draw to you at the Kishon River Sisera the army commander of Jabin, and his chariots, and his multitude, and shall give him into your hands.
And Barak said to her, If you go with me, then I will go. And if you will not go with me, I will not go.
And she said, I will certainly go with you; only, your glory shall surely not be on the way which you are going, for Jehovah shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah rose up and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh. And he went up with ten thousand men at his feet. And Deborah went up with him.
And Heber the Kenite had broken away from the Kenites, he being of the children of Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses. And he pitched his tent by the oak in Zaanaim, near Kedesh.
And they told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam had gone up to Mount Tabor.
And Sisera mustered all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people with him, from Harosheth of the nations, to the Kishon River.
And Deborah said to Barak, Rise up, for this is the day in which Jehovah has given Sisera into your hand. Has not Jehovah gone out before you? And Barak went down from Mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And Jehovah routed Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the army, by the mouth of the sword, before Barak. And Sisera came down from the chariot and fled on his feet.
And Barak pursued the chariots and went after the army, to Harosheth of the nations. And all the army of Sisera fell by the mouth of the sword; there was not even one left.
And Sisera fled on his feet to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite. For there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, Turn in, my lord; turn in to me; do not fear. And he turned in to her into the tent; and she covered him with a rug.
And he said to her, Please give me a little water to drink, for I am thirsty. And she opened a skin of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And he said to her, Stand at the door of the tent, and it shall be if anyone comes in and asks you, and says, Is there a man here? Then you shall way, There is not.
And Jael the wife of Heber took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand, and went to him quietly. And she drove the peg into his temple, and she beat it into the ground. And he had been fast asleep, and faint; and he died.
And, behold, as Barak followed Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said to him, Come, and I will show you the man whom you are seeking. And he came in to her, and, behold! Sisera had fallen dead with the peg in his temple.
And on that day God humbled Jabin the king of Canaan before the sons of Israel.
And the hand of the sons of Israel went on, going on and pressing hard on Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had cut off Jabin the king of Canaan.