Let brotherly love continue.
Be not forgetful to entertain strangers; for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.
Remember those in bonds, as bound with them; those in distress, as being yourselves also in the body.
Let marriage be honored in all respects, and the bed be undefiled; but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Let your disposition be without covetousness, and be content with what ye have; for he hath said, "I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee;"
so that we boldly say, "The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear; what shall man do to me?"
Remember your leaders, who spoke to you the word of God; and considering well the end of their manner of life, imitate their faith.
Jesus Christ is yesterday and to-day the same, and for ever.
Be not carried aside with various and strange teachings; for it is good that the heart be established with grace, not with meats, in which those who walked were not profited.
We have an altar, of which they cannot eat who serve the tabernacle.
For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high-priest are burned without the camp.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.
Let us then go forth to him without the camp, bearing his reproach;
for here we have no abiding city, but are seeking that which is to come.
Through him therefore let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips giving thanks to his name.
But works of kindness and liberality forget not; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Obey your leaders, and submit yourselves to them; for they keep watch in behalf of your souls, as those who must give an account; that they may do this with joy, and not with grief; for this is not for your advantage.
Pray for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring in all things to conduct ourselves well;
but I the more earnestly entreat you to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
Now may the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great Shepherd of the sheep through the blood of an everlasting covenant, even our Lord Jesus,
make you perfect in every good work, to do his will, doing in you that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever. Amen.
But I beseech you, brethren, bear with the word of my exhortation; for I have written to you in few words.
Know that the brother Timothy hath been set at liberty, with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
Salute all your leaders, and all the saints. Those from Italy salute you.
Grace be with you all. Amen.