Send a lamb to the ruler of the land, from the rock of the desert to the mount of the daughter of Zion.
For it is as a fleeing bird cast out of the nest; the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon.
Take counsel; do judgment; make your shadow as the night in midday; hide the outcasts; do not uncover the fugitive!
Let My outcasts tarry with you, Moab. Be a hiding place to them from the face of the destroyer. For the exacter has ceased, destruction has failed; the trampler is ended out of the land.
And in mercy the throne shall be founded; and he shall sit on it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging and seeking justice, and swift in righteousness.
We have heard of the pride of Moab, very proud; of his pride, his arrogance, and his rage; not so are his babblings.
So Moab shall howl for Moab; everyone shall howl; all of it shall howl for the foundations of Kir-hareseth; surely they are stricken.
For the fields of Heshbon droop, the vine of Sibmah. The masters of the nations have crushed its choice plants. They have come to Jazer; they wander in the desert; her branches are spread out; they have crossed the sea.
On account of this I will weep with the weeping of Jazer, the vine of Sibmah; I will drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh; for shouting has fallen on your fruit and on your harvest.
And gladness and joy is gathered up from the fruitful field; and there is no singing and no shouting in the vineyards; the treaders shall not tread out wine in the presses; I have made the exultation to cease.
For this reason my belly shall sound like a harp for Moab, and my inward parts for Kir-haresh.
And it shall be, when it is seen that Moab shall be wearied on the high place, then he shall come to his shrine to pray, and he shall not be able.
This is the word that Jehovah had spoken to Moab from that time.
But now Jehovah has spoken, saying, Within three years, as the years of a hireling, then the glory of Moab will be abased, with all the great host; and the remnant shall be few; small, not mighty.