Thou therefore. Son of man, Prophesy unto the mountains of Israel,—and thou shalt say, Ye mountains of Israel Hear ye the word of Yahweh.
Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh, Because the enemy hath said concerning you Aha! Even the high places of age-past times, for a possession have become ours
Therefore, prophesy, and thou shalt say, Thus saith My Lord Yahweh-Because even because they have desolated and panted for you on every side That ye should become a possession to the rest of the nations, And ye have come up into the talk of the tongue and the slander of the people
Therefore ye mountains of Israel, hear ye the word of My Lord Yahweh,— Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh, To the mountains and to the hills, to the channels and to the valleys, and to the desolate waste places and to the cities that are forsaken, which have become a prey and a derision, to the rest of the nations which are on every side:
Therefore, Thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh, Surely in the fire of my jealousy, have I spoken against the rest of the nations and against Edom all of it,— Who have given my land to themselves for a possession, In the rejoicing of all the heart In contempt of soul, To make of its produce a prey.
Therefore prophesy, concerning the soil of Israel,—and say to the mountains and to the hills to the channels and to the valleys, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Behold me! In my jealousy and in mine indignation, have I spoken, Because the insult of the nations, ye have borne;
Therefore Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, I myself have lifted my hand,- Surely the nations which are yours round about, they their own shame, shall bear:
But ye O mountains of Israel Your boughs, shall ye shoot forth, And your fruit, shall ye bear For my people Israel, For they have drawn near to enter.
For lo! I am towards you, Therefore will I turn towards you, And ye shall be tilled and sown;
And I will multiply, upon you—men, All the house of Israel All of it, Then shall the cities be inhabited, And the waste places, shall be built,
And I will multiply upon you—man and beast, And they shall multiply and be fruitful,— And I will cause you to be inhabited as in your former estates. And will do you more good than at your beginnings, So shall ye know that am Yahweh;
And I will bring upon you—men even my people Israel That they may possess thee, So shalt thou be theirs, as an inheritance, -And thou shalt no more again make them childless.
Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh, Because they are saying to you. A devourer of men, thou art, And one that didst make childless thy nations, hast thou been
Therefore, men, shalt thou not devour any more,- And thy nations, shalt thou make childless no more, Declareth My Lord Yahweh;
And I will not suffer to be heard against thee any more, the insult of the nations, And the reproach of the peoples, shalt thou not bear any more,- And thy nations, shalt thou not cause to stumble any more, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
And the word of Yahweh came unto me saying:
Son of man The house of Israel were dwelling upon their own soil, But they defiled it by their way, and by their doings. Like the defilement of her that is removed, became their way before me.
So I poured out mine indignation upon them, Because of the blood which they had shed upon the land,- Yea with their manufactured gods, had they defiled it.
So I dispersed them among the nations, And they were scattered throughout the lands,— According to their way and according to their doings, I judged them.
But when they entered among the nations where they did enter, then profaned they my holy Name,—in that it was said of them The people of Yahweh, these! Yet from his land, have they come forth!
So then I had tender regard for my holy Name,- Which the house of Israel had profaned, among the nations, where they had entered.
Therefore say thou to the house of Israel Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, Not for your sakes, am I working. O house of Israel, But for my holy Name which ye have profaned, among the nations where ye have entered;
Therefore will I hallow my great Name, that hath been profaned among the nations, which ye have profaned in their midst,-So shall the nations know that I am Yahweh Declareth My Lord, Yahweh, When I have hallowed myself in you, before their eyes.
Therefore will I take you from among the nations, And gather you out of all the lands,- And will bring you upon your own soil;
And I will throw upon you clean water and ye shall be clean,— From all your uncleannesses and from all your manufactured gods, will I cleanse you;
And I will give you a new heart, And a new spirit, will I put within you,-And I will take away the heart of stone out of your flesh, And will give you a heart of flesh;
And my spirit, will I put within you, And will cause That in my statutes, ye shall walk, And my regulations, ye shall observe, and do;
And ye shall dwell in the land which I gave to your fathers,- And ye shall become my people, And I will become your God;
And I will save you out of all your uncleannesses, —And will call for the corn and will increase it, And will not lay upon you famine; And I will save you out of all your uncleannesses, —And will call for the corn and will increase it, And will not lay upon you famine;
And I will multiply The fruit of the tree, and The increase of the field,— To the end that ye may not receive any more the reproach of famine among the nations.
Then shall ye call to mind Your ways that were wicked, and Your doings that were not good,- And shall become loathsome in your own sight. For your iniquities and For your abominations.
Not for your sakes, am I working, Declareth My Lord Yahweh be it known to you,— Turn ye pale and then blush for your ways. O house of Israel.
Thus saith My Lord, Yahweh, In the day when I cleanse you, from all your iniquities, Then will I cause the cities to be inhabited, And the waste places shall be built;
And the land that was made desolate shall be tilled,— Whereas it was a desolation, before the eyes of every passer-by;
And they shall say, This land that was made desolate hath become like the garden of Eden,- And the cities that were waste and deserted and thrown down, now fenced, are inhabited;
So shall the nations that may be left remaining round about you know that, I Yahweh— Have built that which was thrown down, and Have planted that which was made desolate,— I Yahweh, have spoken and performed.
Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Even yet—for this, will I be prevailed upon by the house of Israel to work for them,— I will multiply them-Like a flock—with men:
Like a flock of holy offerings Like the flock of Jerusalem in her appointed feasts, So, shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men,- And they shall know that, I, am Yahweh.