He who, being often reproved, hardens his neck shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.
When the righteous are increased, the people rejoice, but when a wicked man bears rule, the people sigh.
He who loves wisdom delights his father, but he who keeps company with harlots wastes his substance.
By justice the king establishes the land, but he who exacts gifts overthrows it.
A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his steps.
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare, but a righteous man sings and rejoices.
A righteous man takes knowledge of the cause of the poor. A wicked man has no such understanding to know.
Scoffers set a city in a flame, but wise men turn away wrath.
If a wise man has a controversy with a foolish man, whether he be angry or laugh, there will be no rest.
Bloodthirsty men hate him who is perfect, but the upright seek his soul.
A fool utters all his anger, but a wise man keeps it back and calms it.
If a ruler hearkens to falsehood, all his servants are wicked.
The poor man and the oppressor meet together. Jehovah enlightens the eyes of them both.
The king who faithfully judges the poor, his throne shall be established forever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.
When the wicked are increased, transgression increases, but the righteous shall look upon their fall.
Correct thy son, and he will give thee rest, yea, he will give delight to thy soul.
Where there is no vision, the people cast off restraint, but he who keeps the law, happy is he.
A servant will not be corrected by words, for though he understands, he will not give heed.
See thou a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
He who brings up his servant gently from childhood shall have him become a son at the last.
An angry man stirs up strife, and a wrathful man abounds in transgression.
A man's pride shall bring him low, but he who is of a lowly spirit shall obtain honor.
He who is partner with a thief hates his own soul; he hears the adjuration and utters nothing.
The fear of man brings a snare, but he who puts his trust in Jehovah shall be safe.
Many seek the ruler's favor, but a man's justice is from Jehovah.
An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, and he who is upright in the way is an abomination to a wicked man.