AND as he was going out of the temple, one of his disciples said unto him, Master, behold what vast stones, and what structures!
And Jesus answering said to him, Beholdest thou these magnificent structures? there shall not be left one stone upon another which shall not be thrown down.
And as he was sitting on the mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately,
Tell us, when shall these things be? and what is the sign when all these things shall come to pass?
Then Jesus answering them, began to say, Beware that no man deceive you:
for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Messiah; and shall deceive many.
But when ye hear of wars, and rumours of wars, be not troubled: for these things must be; but the end is not yet.
And nation shall rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and commotions: these are the beginnings of sorrows.
But take ye heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to their sanhedrims, and to the synagogues; ye shall be beaten with rods, and be set before kings and governors for my name’s sake, for a testimony unto them.
And the Gospel must first be preached to all nations.
But when delivering you up, they shall bring you to the bar, be not previously anxious what ye shall say, neither premeditate: for it shall be given to you at that very hour, what ye shall speak: for it is not you, who are speaking, but the Holy Ghost.
And brother shall deliver up brother unto death, and the father the son: and children shall rise up against their parents, and cause them to be put to death.
And ye shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake. But he that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved.
But when ye see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing where it ought not (let him that readeth observe), then let those who are in Judea fly to the mountains:
and let not him who is on the roof go down into the house, nor enter into it, to carry away any thing out of the house:
and he that is in the field, let him not return back to take his garment.
But wo to those who are big with child, and who have infants at their breasts in those days!
And pray that your flight be not in winter.
For these days shall bring tribulation, such as the like hath never been from the beginning of the creation which God created unto this time, and never shall be more.
And except the Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would have been preserved: but for the sake of those elect, whom he hath elected, he hath shortened the days.
And then, if any man say to you, Lo, here is the Messiah! or, lo there! believe it not.
For many false Messiahs and false prophets shall arise, and shall propose signs and wonders to deceive, if it were possible, even the elect.
But be ye on your guard: lo! I have told you all things:
but in those days, after that distressing season, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not emit her light;
and the stars of the heaven will be falling, and the powers that are in heaven will be shaken.
And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with vast power and glory.
And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather to him his elect from the four winds, from the extremity of the earth to the utmost bound of heaven.
Now learn from the fig-tree, a parable; When her branch is now become tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh;
so also you, when ye see these things come to pass, know that it is nigh, even at the doors.
Verily I say unto you, That this generation shall not pass away, until all these things are fulfilled.
Heaven and earth shall pass away; but my words shall never pass away.
But of that day and hour knoweth no man, nor the angels which are in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
Take ye heed, watch, and pray; for ye know not when the time is.
As a man going abroad, when he left his abode, and gave his servants authority, and to each his work, commanded also the porter to watch.
Watch ye therefore; for ye know not at what time the master of the house cometh, at evening, or midnight, or cock-crowing, or in the morning:
lest coming suddenly he find you asleep.
Now what I say to you, I say to all, Watch.