When He had come down from the mountain, great crowds followed him.
And behold, a leper came and worshiped him, saying, Lord, if You will, You can make me clean.
And Jesus put out His hand and touched him, saying, I will; be clean! And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest. And offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
And when Jesus had entered into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, beseeching Him,
and saying, Lord, my son lies at home paralyzed and grievously tormented.
And Jesus says to him, I will come and heal him.
The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that You should come under my roof; but only speak the word, and my boy will be healed.
For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go! And he goes; and to another, Come! And he comes; and to my servant, Do this! And he does it.
When Jesus heard, He marvelled and said to those who followed, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith, no, not in Israel.
And I say to you that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of Heaven.
But the sons of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
And Jesus said to the centurion, Go. And as you have believed, so let it be to you. And his boy was healed in that hour.
And when Jesus had come into Peter's house, He saw his wife's mother laid out and in a fever.
And He touched her hand, and the fever left her. And she arose and served them.
And evening coming on, they brought to Him many who had been possessed with demons. And He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick
so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, "He took on Himself our weaknesses and bore our sicknesses."
And seeing great crowds, Jesus gave orders to depart to the other side.
And a certain scribe came and said to him, Master, I will follow You wherever You go.
And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay His head.
And another of His disciples said to him, Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father.
But Jesus said to him, Follow Me, and let the dead bury their dead.
And He entering into a boat, His disciples followed Him.
And behold, a great tempest arose in the sea, so much so that the boat was covered with the waves. But He was asleep.
And His disciples came to Him and awakened Him, saying, Lord, save us! We perish!
And He said to them, Why are you afraid, little-faiths? Then He arose and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm.
But the men marveled, saying, What kind of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him!
And when He had come to the other side into the country of the Gergesenes, two demon-possessed ones met Him, coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that no one might pass by that way.
And behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with You, Jesus, Son of God? Have You come here to torment us before the time?
And there was a good way off from them a herd of many swine, feeding.
And the demons begged Him, saying, If You cast us out, allow us to go away into the herd of swine.
And He said to them, Go! And when they had come out, they went into the herd of swine. And behold, the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea and perished in the waters.
And those who fed them fled. And going into the city, they told everything, and what had happened to the ones who had been possessed of demons.
And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw Him, they begged that He would depart out of their borders.