Then, after the tumult ceased, Paul, calling the disciples to himself and exhorting them, said farewell. And he set out, so that he might go into Macedonia.
And when he had walked through those areas and had exhorted them with many sermons, he went into Greece.
After he had spent three months there, treacheries were planned against him by the Jews, just as he was about to sail into Syria. And having been advised of this, he return through Macedonia.
Now those accompanying him were Sopater, the son of Pyrrhus from Beroea; and also the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and also Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia.
These, after they had gone ahead, waited for us at Troas.
Yet truly, we sailed from Philippi, after the days of Unleavened Bread, and in five days we went to them at Troas, where we stayed for seven days.
Then, on the first Sabbath, when we had assembled together to break bread, Paul discoursed with them, intending to set out the next day. But he prolonged his sermon into the middle of the night. The expression “first Sabbath” refers to Easter Sunday, the commemoration of the first Christian Sabbath. In the year in question, Easter Sunday was celebrated some 12 (5 + 7) days or more after “the days of Unleavened Bread”, which refers to Passover. It is unclear how Easter Sunday was calculated at that early time in the Church, but it did not always coincide with Passover.
Now there were plenty of lamps in the upper room, where we were gathered.
And a certain adolescent named Eutychus, sitting on the window sill, was being weighed down by a heavy drowsiness (for Paul was preaching at length). Then, as he went to sleep, he fell from the third floor room downward. And when he was lifted up, he was dead.
When Paul had gone down to him, he laid himself over him and, embracing him, said, “Do not worry, for his soul is still within him.”
And so, going up, and breaking bread, and eating, and having spoken well on until daylight, he then set out.
Now they had brought the boy in alive, and they were more than a little consoled.
Then we climbed aboard the ship and sailed to Assos, where we were to take in Paul. For so he himself had decided, since he was making the journey by land.
And when he had joined us at Assos, we took him in, and we went to Mitylene.
And sailing from there, on the following day, we arrived opposite Chios. And next we landed at Samos. And on the following day we went to Miletus.
For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he would not be delayed in Asia. For he was hurrying so that, if it were possible for him, he might observe the day of Pentecost at Jerusalem.
Then, sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he called those greater by birth in the church.
And when they had come to him and were together, he said to them: “You know that from the first day when I entered into Asia, I have been with you, for the entire time, in this manner:
serving the Lord, with all humility and despite the tears and trials which befell me from the treacheries of the Jews,
how I held back nothing that was of value, how well I have preached to you, and that I have taught you publicly and throughout the houses,
testifying both to Jews and to Gentiles about repentance in God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now, behold, being obliged in spirit, I am going to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there,
except that the Holy Spirit, throughout every city, has cautioned me, saying that chains and tribulations await me at Jerusalem.
But I dread none of these things. Neither do I consider my life to be more precious because it is my own, provided that in some way I may complete my own course and that of the ministry of the Word, which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the Gospel of the grace of God.
And now, behold, I know that you will no longer see my face, all of you among whom I have traveled, preaching the kingdom of God.
For this reason, I call you as witnesses on this very day: that I am clean from the blood of all.
For I have not turned aside in the least from announcing every counsel of God to you.
Take care of yourselves and of the entire flock, over which the Holy Spirit has stationed you as Bishops to rule the Church of God, which he has purchased by his own blood.
I know that after my departure ravenous wolves will enter among you, not sparing the flock.
And from among yourselves, men will rise up, speaking perverse things in order to entice disciples after them.
Because of this, be vigilant, retaining in memory that throughout three years I did not cease, night and day, with tears, to admonish each and every one of you.
And now, I commend you to God and to the Word of his grace. He has the power to build up, and to give an inheritance to all who are sanctified.
I have coveted neither silver and gold, nor apparel,
as you yourselves know. For that which was needed by me and by those who are with me, these hands have provided.
I have revealed all things to you, because by laboring in this way, it is necessary to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ ”
And when he had said these things, kneeling down, he prayed with all of them.
Then a great weeping occurred among them all. And, falling upon the neck of Paul, they kissed him,
being grieved most of all over the word which he had said, that they would never see his face again. And they brought him to the ship.