And Jehovah said to Moses and to Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
This month shall be the chief of months for you. It shall be the first of the months of the year for you.
Speak to all the congregation of Israel, saying, On the tenth of this month, they shall each take for themselves an animal of the flock for a father's house, a flock animal for a house.
And if the house is too small for a flock animal, he and his neighbor next to his house shall take according to the number of souls, each one according to the mouth of his eating, you shall count concerning the flock animal.
A flock animal, a perfect one, a male, a yearling, shall be to you. You shall take from the sheep or from the goats.
And it shall be for you to keep until the fourteenth day of this month. And all the assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it between the evenings.
And they shall take from the blood, and put it on the two side doorposts and on the upper doorpost, on the houses in which they eat it.
And they shall eat the flesh in this night, roasted with fire, and they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
Do not eat it raw, or at all boiled in water, but roasted with fire; its head with its legs and with its inward parts.
And you shall not leave any of it until morning. And you shall burn with fire that left from it until morning.
And you shall eat it this way: with your loins girded, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. And you shall eat it in haste. It is the Passover to Jehovah.
And I will pass through in the land of Egypt in this night. And I will strike every first born in the land of Egypt, from man even to livestock. And I will execute judgments on all the gods of Egypt. I am Jehovah!
And the blood shall be a sign to you, on the houses where you are . And I will see the blood, and I will pass over you. And the plague shall not be on you to destroy, when I strike in the land of Egypt.
And the day shall be a memorial for you. And you shall celebrate it as a feast to Jehovah, for your generations. You shall celebrate it as a law forever.
You shall eat unleavened bread seven days. Indeed, on the first day you shall cause leaven to cease from your houses. For anyone eating anything leavened, that soul shall be cut off from Israel, from the first day until the seventh day.
And on the first day shall be a holy gathering, and in the seventh day a holy gathering shall be to you. Not any work may be done on them. Only what must be eaten by your soul, that alone may be done by you.
And you shall observe the unleavened bread for on this very day I brought out your armies from the land of Egypt. And you shall observe this day for your generations, a statute forever.
In the first month , on the fourteenth day of the month, at evening you shall eat unleavened bread , until the twenty first day of the month, at evening.
For seven days no leaven shall be found in your houses. For anyone eating anything leavened, that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, among the aliens, and among the natives of the land.
You shall not eat anything leavened. You shall eat unleavened bread in all your dwellings.
And Moses called to all the elders of Israel and said to them Draw out and take of the flock for you and for your families, and kill the passover.
And take a bunch of hyssop and dip in the blood in the basin. And touch some of the blood in the basin to the upper doorpost and to the two side doorposts. And you shall not go out, anyone from the door of his house until morning.
And Jehovah will pass through to strike Egypt. And He will see the blood on the upper doorpost and on the two side doorposts, and Jehovah will pass over the door. And He will not allow the destroyer to come into your houses to strike you.
And you shall observe this word for an ordinance for you, and for your sons forever.
And it shall be, when you come into the land which Jehovah shall give to you, as He has spoken, you shall observe this service.
And it shall be, when your sons say to you, What is this service to you?
Then you shall say, A sacrifice of a passover of Jehovah, who passed over the houses of the sons of Israel in Egypt when He struck Egypt. And He delivered our houses. And the people bowed and worshiped.
And the sons of Israel went out and did as Jehovah commanded Moses and Aaron. So they did.
And it happened at midnight. Jehovah struck every first-born in the land of Egypt, from the first-born of Pharaoh, the one sitting on the throne, to the first-born of the captive who was in the prison house, and every first-born of animals.
And Pharaoh arose by night, he and all his servants, and all the Egyptians. And there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not a dead one.
And he called Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Arise, go out from the midst of my people, both you and the sons of Israel. And go serve Jehovah according to your word.
Take both your flocks and your herds, as you said, and go. And bless me also.
And the Egyptians were strong on the people, to hasten to send them away from the land. For they said, All of us are about to die.
And the people took up their dough before it was leavened, their kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothing on their shoulders.
And the sons of Israel did according to the word of Moses. And they asked from the Egyptians articles of silver and articles of gold, and clothing.
And Jehovah gave favor to the people in the eyes of the Egyptians. And they granted their requests And they plundered Egypt.
And the sons of Israel traveled from Rameses to Succoth, the men being about six hundred thousand on foot, apart from little ones.
And also a mixed multitude went up with them, and flocks, and herds, very many livestock.
And they baked the dough which they brought out from Egypt into unleavened cakes. For it was not leavened, because they were driven out from Egypt, and they were not able to delay. And also they had not prepared food for a journey for themselves.
And the time of the dwelling of the sons of Israel, which they dwelt in Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years.
And it happened, from the end of four hundred and thirty years, it happened on this day, all the armies of Jehovah went out from the land of Egypt.
It is a night of celebration to Jehovah, for bringing them out from the land of Egypt. This night is a celebration for all the sons of Israel to their generations.
And Jehovah said to Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of the Passover. No stranger may eat of it.
And every man's slave, a purchase of silver, you shall circumcise him, then he may eat of it.
A foreigner and a hired servant may not eat of it.
It shall be eaten in one house. You shall not carry any of the flesh outside from the house. And you shall not break a bone in it.
All the congregation of Israel shall prepare it.
And when a visitor shall stay with you, and will do the Passover to Jehovah, let every male to him be circumcised, and then he may come near to prepare it. And he shall be like a native of the land. But any uncircumcised one may not eat of it.
One law shall be to the native, and to the visitor, the one staying in your midst.
And all the sons of Israel did as Jehovah commanded Moses and Aaron. So they did.
And it happened on this day, Jehovah brought out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt by their armies.