In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
This man was in the beginning with God.
All things came to be through him, and apart from him not even one thing came to be that has come to be.
In him was life, and the life was the light of men.
And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.
A man came to be who was sent from God, his name was John.
This man came for testimony so that he might testify about the light, so that all might believe through him.
That man was not the light, but that he might testify about the light.
He was the true light coming into the world that enlightens every man.
He was in the world, and the world came to be through him, and the world knew him not.
He came to his own, and his own did not accept him.
But as many as did accept him, to them he gave power to become children of God, to those who believe in his name,
who were begotten, not from blood, nor from a will of flesh, nor from a will of man, but from God.
And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth.
John testified about him, and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me came to be before me, because he was before me.
And from his fullness we all received, even grace for grace.
Because the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came to be through Jesus Christ.
No man has ever seen God. The only begotten Son, being in the bosom of the Father, that man reported him.
And this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent forth priests and Levites from Jerusalem so that they might ask him, Who are thou?
And he confessed, and did not deny, and confessed, I am not the Christ.
And they asked him, What therefore, are thou Elijah? And he says, I am not. Are thou the prophet? And he answered, No.
They said therefore to him, Who are thou, so that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do thou say about thyself?
He said, I am the voice of a man crying out in the wilderness: Make straight the way of the Lord, just as the prophet Isaiah said.
And those who were sent were from the Pharisees.
And they asked him, and said to him, Why therefore do thou immerse if thou are not the Christ nor Elijah nor the prophet?
John answered them, saying, I immerse in water, but amidst you stands him whom ye know not.
He is the man who comes after me, who has become before me, of whom I am not worthy that I might loosen the strap of his shoe.
These things occurred in Bethany beyond the Jordan where John was immersing.
On the morrow John sees Jesus coming to him, and he says, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!
This is he about whom I said, After me comes a man who has become before me, because he was before me.
And I had not known him, but that he would be made known to Israel. Because of this I came immersing in water.
And John testified, saying, I have seen the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained upon him.
And I had not known him. But he who sent me to immerse in water, he said to me, Upon whomever thou will see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, this is he who immerses in the Holy Spirit.
And I have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God.
Again on the morrow John stood, and two of his disciples.
And having looked upon Jesus walking, he says, Behold, the Lamb of God!
And the two disciples heard him speaking, and they followed Jesus.
And Jesus having turned, and having seen them following, says to them, What seek ye? And they said to him, Rabbi (which says, being interpreted, Teacher), where do thou dwell?
He says to them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and remained with him that day. It was about the tenth hour.
Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, was one of the two who heard from John and who followed him.
This man first finds his own brother Simon, and says to him, We have found the Messiah (which is, being interpreted, Christ).
And he brought him to Jesus. And having seen him, Jesus said, Thou are Simon the son of Jonah. Thou will be called Cephas (which is interpreted, Peter).
On the morrow he wanted to go forth into Galilee, and he finds Philip. And Jesus says to him, Follow me.
Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip finds Nathanael, and says to him, We have found him of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets wrote: Jesus the son of Joseph of Nazareth.
And Nathanael said to him, What good can be from Nazareth? Philip says to him, Come and see.
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and says about him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no deceit.
Nathanael says to him, How do thou know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called thee, being under the fig tree, I saw thee.
Nathanael answered, and says to him, Rabbi, thou are the Son of God. Thou are the king of Israel.
Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, thou believe? Thou will see greater than these things.
And he says to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, henceforth ye will see the heaven opened, and the agents of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.