In thee, O LORD! do I trust; let me never be put to shame; According to thy goodness deliver me!
Bow down thine ear to me; help me speedily! Be to me a strong rock, a high fortress, for my deliverance!
For thou art my rock and my high fortress; Be thou also my guide, and lead me, for thy name’s sake!
Draw me out of the net which they have secretly laid for me, For thou art my strength!
Into thy hand I commit my life; Thou wilt deliver me, O LORD, thou God of truth!
I hate those who regard lying vanities, And put my trust in the LORD.
I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy, That thou hast looked upon my trouble, And hast had regard to my distress;
That thou hast not given me up to the hands of my enemies, But hast set my feet in a wide place.
Have mercy upon me, O LORD! for I am in trouble! My face is consumed with grief; Yea, my spirit and my body.
For my life is wasted with sorrow, And my years with sighing; My strength faileth by reason of my affliction, And my bones are consumed on account of all my enemies.
I have become the scorn of my neighbors, And the terror of my acquaintance; They who see me abroad flee from me.
I am forgotten like a dead man out of mind; I am like a broken vessel.
I hear the slander of many; fear is on every side; For they take counsel together against me; They devise to take away my life.
But I trust in thee, O Jehovah! I say, "Thou art my God!"
My destiny is in thy hand; Deliver me from the power of my enemies and persecutors!
Let thy face shine upon thy servant, And save me through thy mercy!
Let me not be put to shame, O LORD! for I have called upon thee; Let the wicked be put to shame; Let them be silenced in the grave!
Let lying lips be put to silence, Which speak proud things against the righteous, With haughtiness and contempt!
O how great is thy goodness, which thou treasurest up for them that fear thee; Which thou showest to them that trust in thee, before the sons of men!
Thou hidest them in the secret place of thy presence from the machinations of men; Thou shelterest them in thy pavilion from the violence of tongues.
Praised be the LORD; for he hath shown me his wonderful kindness, As in a fortified city!
I said in my distress, "I am cut off from before thine eyes;" But thou didst hear the voice of my supplication, When I cried unto thee.
O love the LORD, all ye his servants; For the LORD preserveth the faithful, And requiteth the proud in full measure!
Be of good courage; let your hearts be strong, All ye who trust in the LORD!