Now these, are the generations of Esau the same, is Edom.
Esau, took his wives of the daughters of Canaan,—Even Adah, daughter of Elon, the Hittite, And Oholibamah daughter of Anah, son of Zibeon, the Hivite;
And Basemath daughter of Ishmael sister of Nebaioth.
So Adah bare to Esau, Eliphaz, and, Basemath, bare Reuel;
and Oholibamah, bare Jeush and Jalam and Korah. These, are the sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
Then took Esau his wives, and his sons, and his daughters and all the souls of his house, and his herds and all his beasts, and all his possessions whatsoever he had gathered in the land of Canaan,—and went into a land, away from the face of Jacob his brother,
For their substance had become too great for them to dwell together,—neither could the land of their sojournings sustain them, because of their herds,
So Esau dwelt in Mount Seir, Esau, is Edom.
And, these, are the generations of Esau father of Edom,—in Mount Seir.
These, are the name of the sons of Esau,—Eliphaz son of Adah wife of Esau, Reuel son of Basemath wife of Esau.
Then came the sons of Eliphaz to be,—Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.
Now, Timna, became the concubine of Eliphaz son of Esau, and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek. These, are the sons of Adah, wife of Esau.
And, these, are the sons of Reuel, Nahath and Zerah Shammah and Mizzah,—These were the sons of Basemath wife of Esau.
And, these, were the sons of Oholibamah daughter of Anah, son of Zibeon, wife of—Esau,—she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah.
These, are the chiefs of the sons of Esau:—The sons of Eliphaz, firstborn of Esau,—Chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, chief Kenaz,
chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek. These are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom, these, the sons of Adah.
And these, are the sons of Reuel, son of Esau—Chief Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah,—These are the chiefs of Reuel, in the land of Edom, these, the sons of Basemath wife of Esau.
And these, are the sons of Oholibamah wife of Esau, Chief Jeush chief Jalam, chief Korah,—These are the chiefs of Oholibamah daughter of Anah wife of Esau.
These, are the sons of Esau, and, these, their chiefs—the same, is Edom.
These, are the sons of Seir, the Horite, who were dwelling in the land,—Lotan and Shobal and Zibeon and Anah;
and Dishon and Ezer and Dishan,—These, are the chiefs of the Horites the sons of Seir, in the land of Edom.
Then came the sons of Lotan to be, Hori and Hemam,—And, the sister of Lotan was Timna.
And, these, are the sons of Shobal, Alvan and Manahath, and Ebal,—Shepho, and Onam.
And, these, are the sons of Zibeon: Both Aiah and Anah,—The same, is the Anah that found the warm springs in the desert, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father.
And these are the sons of Anah Dishon,—and Oholibamah, is daughter of Anah.
And, these, are the sons of Dishon,—Hemdan and Eshban, and Ithran and Cheran.
These, are the sons of Ezer,—Bilhan and Zaavan, and Akan.
These, are the sons of Dishan,—Uz and Aran.
These, are the chiefs of the Horites,—Chief Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah;
chief Dishon, chief Ezer, chief Dishan. These, are the chiefs of the Horites, after their chiefs in the land of Seir.
And, these, are the kings, who reigned in the land of Edom,—before there reigned a king of the sons of Israel:
There reigned in Edom, Bela, son of Beor,—and the name of his city, was Dinhabah.
Then died Bela,—and there reigned in his stead, Jobab son of Zerah, from Bozrah.
Then died Jobab,—and there reigned in his stead, Husham, from the land of the Temanites.
Then died Husham,—and there reigned in his stead, Hadad, son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, and, the name of his city, was Avith.
Then died Hadad,—and there reigned in his stead, Samlah from Masrekah.
Then died Samlah,—and there reigned in his stead, Shaul, from Rohoboth of the River.
Then died Shaul,—and there reigned in his stead, Baal-hanan, son of Achbor.
Then died Baal-hanan son of Achbor, and there reigned in his stead Hadar, and the name of his city, was Pau,—and, the name of his wife, Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-zahab.
These then are the names of the chiefs of Esau after their families, after their places by their names,—Chief Timnah, chief Alvah chief Jetheth;
chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon;
chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar;
chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These, are the chiefs of Edom—after their dwellings in the land of their possession, the same, is Esau, father of Edom.