A Psalm of David. Strive, O LORD, with those who strive with me; fight against those who fight against me.
Take hold of a shield and buckler, and stand up for my help.
Also draw out the spear and the lance against those who pursue me; say to my soul, I am your salvation.
Let them be humbled and put to shame, those who seek after my soul; let them be turned back and be brought to blushing, those who plot evil to me.
Let them be as chaff before the wind; and let the Angel of the LORD drive them away.
Let their way be dark and slippery; and let the Angel of the LORD pursue them.
For without cause they have spread their net for me in a pit-net; without cause they have dug for my soul.
Let destruction come upon him, he will not know; and let his net which he has hidden concealed catch him, let him fall in it, into destruction.
And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD; it shall rejoice in His salvation.
All my bones shall say, O LORD, who is like You, who delivers the poor from those stronger than he; yea, the poor and the needy from him who plunders him?
Cruel witnesses rose up; they asked of me that which I never knew.
They rewarded me evil for good; bereaving my soul.
But when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth; I humbled my soul with fastings; and my prayer returned into my own bosom.
As a friend, as to my brother, I walked; as one who mourns for a mother, I was bowed down, mourning.
But in my stumbling they rejoiced, and gathered themselves; the defamers gathered themselves against me, and I knew not; they tore and were not silent,
with the hypocrites, mockers, for a cake, they gnashed on me with their teeth.
O LORD, how long will You look on? Rescue my soul from their ravages, my only one from the lions.
I will give You thanks in the great congregation; I will praise You among a mighty people.
Let not those who are my lying enemies rejoice over me, those who hate me without cause wink with the eye.
For they do not speak peace; but they think deceitful things against the quiet ones of the earth.
And they widen their mouths against me; they say, Aha, aha! Our eyes have seen.
You have seen, O LORD; do not keep silence; O LORD, do not be far from me.
Stir up Yourself and awaken to my judgment, to my cause, my God and my Lord.
Judge me, O LORD my God, according to Your righteousness; and do not let them rejoice over me.
Let them not say in their hearts, Aha! Our Soul! Let them not say, We have swallowed him up.
Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor together, those who magnify themselves over me.
Let those who delight in my justification shout and rejoice; and they shall say without ceasing, The Lord be magnified, delighting in the peace of His servant.
And my tongue shall speak of Your righteousness, of Your praise all the day long.