A wise son hears his father's instruction: but a scorner hears not rebuke.
A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence.
He that keeps his mouth keeps his life: but he that opens wide his lips shall have destruction.
The soul of the sluggard desires, and has nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
A righteous man hates lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and comes to shame.
Righteousness keeps him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
There is that makes himself rich, yet has nothing: there is that makes himself poor, yet has great riches.
The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor hears not rebuke.
The light of the righteous rejoices: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
Only by pride comes contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.
Wealth got by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathers by labour shall increase.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick: but when the desire comes, it is a tree of life.
Whoso despises the word shall be destroyed: but he that fears the commandment shall be rewarded.
The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Good understanding gives favour: but the way of transgressors is hard.
Every prudent man deals with knowledge: but a fool lays open his folly.
A wicked messenger falls into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health.
Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuses instruction: but he that regards reproof shall be honoured.
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil.
He that walks with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.
Evil pursues sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repaid.
A good man left an inheritance to his children's children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.
Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is destroyed for lack of judgment.
He that spares his rod hates his son: but he that loves him chastens him early.
The righteous eats to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall lack.