And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom. And Jehovah his God was with him, and magnified him exceedingly.
And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every ruler in all Israel, the heads of the fathers.
So Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon. For the tent of meeting of God was there, which Moses the servant of Jehovah had made in the wilderness.
But the ark of God David had brought up from Kiriath-jearim to the place that David had prepared for it. For he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem.
Moreover the brazen altar, that Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, was there before the tabernacle of Jehovah. And Solomon and the assembly sought to it.
And Solomon went up there to the brazen altar before Jehovah, which was at the tent of meeting, and offered a thousand burnt offerings upon it.
In that night God appeared to Solomon, and said to him, Ask what I shall give thee.
And Solomon said to God, Thou have shown great loving kindness to David my father, and have made me king in his stead.
Now, O Jehovah God, let thy promise to David my father be established. For thou have made me king over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude.
Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people. For who can judge this thy people, that is so great?
And God said to Solomon, Because this was in thy heart, and thou have not asked riches, wealth, or honor, nor the life of those who hate thee, neither yet have asked long life, but have asked wisdom and knowledge for thyself, that thou may judge my people over whom I have made thee king,
wisdom and knowledge are granted to thee. And I will give thee riches, and wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings have had who have been before thee, neither shall any after thee have the like.
So Solomon came from the high place that was at Gibeon, from before the tent of meeting, to Jerusalem, and he reigned over Israel.
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. And he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he placed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
And the king made silver and gold to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars he made to be as the sycamore trees that are in the lowland, for abundance.
And the horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt. The king's merchants received them in herds, each herd at a price.
And they went after and brought out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty. And so they brought them out by their means for all the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of Syria.