And when any will offer a meat offering to the LORD, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense on it:
And he shall bring it to Aaron’s sons the priests: and he shall take from it his handful of its flour, and of its oil, with all of its frankincense; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour to the LORD:
And the remnant of the meat offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
And if thou shalt bring an oblation of a meat offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
And if thy oblation shall be a meat offering baked in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mixed with oil.
Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil on it: it is a meat offering.
And if thy oblation shall be a meat offering baked in the fryingpan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
And thou shalt bring the meat offering that is made of these things to the LORD: and when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar.
And the priest shall take from the meat offering a memorial of it, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour to the LORD.
And that which is left of the meat offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
No meat offering, which ye shall bring to the LORD, shall be made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the LORD made by fire.
As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them to the LORD: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savour.
And every oblation of thy meat offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou allow the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offering: with all thy offerings thou shalt offer salt.
And if thou shalt offer a meat offering of thy firstfruits to the LORD, thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green ears of grain dried by the fire, even grain beaten out of full ears.
And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense on it: it is a meat offering.
And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of its beaten grain, and part of its oil, with all its frankincense: it is an offering made by fire to the LORD.