Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have had access, by faith, into this grace in which we stand; and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God.
And not only so, but we rejoice in afflictions also; because we know that affliction produces patience,
and patience, an approved character, and an approved character, hope;
and this hope disappoints us not; because the love of God is poured abundantly into our hearts through the Holy Spirit that is given to us.
For when we were yet without strength, at the appointed time, Christ died for the ungodly.
For hardly, indeed, will one die for a just man; yet, perhaps, for the good man some one would even dare to die.
But God makes known his love to us in this, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us:
much more, then, since we are now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath through him.
For if, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
And not only so, but we rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the reconciliation.
For this reason, as by one man sin entered into the world, and by his sin, death; and so death passed through to all men, because all have sinned:
for till the law, sin was in the world; but sin is not charged where there is no law.
Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that did not sin in the likeness of Adam’s transgression, who is the type of him that was to come.
But the favor bestowed is not, in all respects, like the offense: for if, by the offense of one, the many have died, much more have the grace of God and the gift which is by the grace of the one man Jesus Christ, been made abundant for the many.
And the gift is not like the sentence that came through one who sinned: for the sentence to condemnation was because of one offense; but the favor bestowed in order to justification, is because of many offenses.
For if, by one man’s offense, death has reigned through that one, much more shall those who receive the abundance of the grace, and of the gift of righteousness, reign in life through the one, who is Jesus Christ.
Therefore, as, by one offense, sentence came on all men to condemnation, so, also, by one act of righteousness, the gift has come on all men to justification of life.
For as by the disobedience of the one man the many have been made sinners, so, also, by the obedience of the one, the many shall be made righteous.
But, besides the first offense, law was introduced, in order that offenses might abound: but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound:
that as sin has reigned, ending in death, so might grace reign by justification, ending in life eternal, through Jesus Christ our Lord.