Then I was given a measure like a rod, and a voice said to me — ‘Go and measure the Temple of God and the altar, and count the worshiper there.
But omit the court outside the Temple, and do not measure that, for it has been given up to the nations; and the holy City will be under their heel for forty-two months.
Then I will give permission to my Two Witnesses, and for those twelve hundred and sixty days they will continue teaching, clothed in sackcloth.’
These men are represented by ‘the two olive trees and the two lamps that stand before the Lord of the earth.’
When any one wishes to harm them, ‘fire comes from their mouths and consumes their enemies’; and whoever wishes to harm them will, in this way, inevitably perish.
These men have the power to close the heavens, that ‘no rain may fall’ during the time that they are teaching; and they have power ‘to turn the streams into blood, and to smite the land with any Curse,’ whenever they will.
As soon as they have completed their testimony, ‘the wild Beast that ascends from the bottomless pit will make war upon them and conquer’ and kill them.
Their dead bodies will lie in the streets of the great City, which is mystically spoken of as ‘Sodom’ and ‘Egypt,’ where their Master was crucified.
Men of all peoples, and tribes, and languages, and nations look at their dead bodies for three days and a half, and do not allow them to be laid in a grave.
Those who live on the earth rejoice over them and are merry, and they will send presents to one another, because these two Prophets brought torments upon those who live on the earth.
After three days and a half ‘the life-giving breath of God entered these men, and they stood up upon their feet,’ and a great terror took possession of those who were watching them.
The two men heard a loud voice from Heaven which said to them — ‘Come up here,’ and they went up to Heaven in the cloud, while their enemies watched them.
At that very time a great earthquake occurred. A tenth part of the city fell, and seven thousand people perished in the earthquake. Those who escaped were much terrified, and praised the God of Heaven.
The second Woe has passed; and there is a third Woe soon to follow!
Then the seventh angel blew; and loud voices were heard in Heaven saying —  ‘The Kingdom of the World has become the Kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever.’
At this the twenty-four Councillors, who were seated on their thrones before God, prostrated themselves on their faces and worshiped Him,
saying — ‘We thank thee, O Lord, our God, the Almighty, who art and who wast, that thou hast assumed thy great power and reigned.
The nations were enraged, and thy Wrath fell upon them; the time came for the dead to be judged, and for thee to give the reward to thy servants the Prophets, and to the People of Christ, and to those who reverence thy Name — the high and the low alike — and to destroy those who are destroying the earth.’
Then the Temple of God in Heaven was opened, and the Ark containing his Covenant was seen in his Temple; and there followed ‘flashes of lightning, cries, peals of thunder,’ an earthquake, and ‘a great storm of hail.’