These also, are proverbs of Solomon,—which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah transcribed.
The glory of God, is to conceal a thing, but, the glory of kings, is to search out a thing.
The heavens for height, and the earth for depth, but, the heart of kings, cannot be searched.
Remove the dross from the silver, and there cometh forth, to the refiner, a vessel:
Remove a lawless man from before the king, that his throne, may be established in righteousness.
Do not honour thyself before a king, nor, in the place of great men, do thou stand;
For better it be said to thee, Come up hither,—than that thou be put lower down before a noble, whom thine own eyes, have beheld.
Do not go forth to strive in haste,—lest [thou know not] what to do in the latter end thereof, when thy neighbour, hath put thee to shame.
Thy contention, urge thou with thy neighbour, and, the secret of another, do not reveal:
Lest he that heareth expose thee, and, the report concerning thee, turn not away.
Golden fruit in figured silver baskets, is a word spoken on fitting occasion.
A ring of gold, and a vessel of precious metal, is a wise reprover, on a hearing ear.
As the cold of snow in the day of harvest, is a faithful messenger to them who send him,—when, the life of his masters, he restoreth.
Clouds and wind, when rain there is none, is the man who boasteth himself of a pretended gift.
By long patience, is a judge persuaded, and, a soft tongue, breaketh the bone.
Honey having found, eat to suffice thee, lest thou loathe it, and vomit it forth.
Withhold thy foot from the house of thy neighbour,—lest he be weary of thee, and hate thee.
A hammer and a sword, and a sharpened arrow, is a man becoming a false witness against his neighbour.
A broken tooth and a faltering foot, is confidence in the treacherous, in the day of danger.
As splendour of dress on a cold day—vinegar upon nitre, so is a singer with songs, unto a sad heart.
If he that hateth thee hunger, give him bread to eat, and, if he be thirsty, give him water to drink;
For, burning coals, shalt thou be heaping upon his head,—and, Yahweh, will repay thee.
A north wind, bringeth forth rain, and, a face stirred with indignation, a secretive tongue.
Better to dwell on the corner of the roof, than a quarrelsome wife, and a house in common.
As cold water to a thirsty soul, so is a good report from a far country.
A fountain fouled, a spring spoiled, is a righteous man tottering before one who is lawless.
To eat honey in abundance, is not good, nor is, searching out their own honour, an honourable thing.
A city broken down without a wall, is a man who hath no control over his own spirit.