And it happened when king Hezekiah heard, he tore his garments and was covered with sackcloth. And he went into the house of Jehovah.
And he sent Eliakim, who was over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz.
And they said to him, So says Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble, and reproach, and contempt. For sons have come to the breach and there is no strength to give birth.
It may be Jehovah your God will hear the words of the chief of the cupbearers whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and rebuke against the words which Jehovah your God has heard. And you shall lift up prayer for the remnant that is found.
So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
And Isaiah said to them, You shall say this to your master, So says Jehovah: Do not fear the words which you have heard, with which the followers of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me
Behold, I will send a spirit into him, and he shall hear a rumor, and return to his own land. And I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.
So the chief of the cupbearers returned and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah; for he had heard that he had set out from Lachish.
And he heard about Tirhakah the king of Ethiopia, saying, He has come out to fight with you. And he heard and sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
So you shall say to Hezekiah, king of Judah, saying, Do no let your God in whom you trust deceive you, saying, Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the king of Assyria's hand.
Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, to destroy them utterly. And shall you be saved
Have the gods of the nations saved those whom my fathers have destroyed, Gozan and Haran, and Rezeph, and the sons of Eden in Telassar?
Where is Hamath's king, and Arpad's king, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah?
And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the couriers, and read it. Then Hezekiah went up to the house of Jehovah and spread it before Jehovah.
And Hezekiah prayed to Jehovah, saying,
O Jehovah of Hosts, God of Israel, who dwells between the cherubs, You are He, God, You alone to all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made the heavens and the earth.
Bow down Your ear, O Jehovah, and hear. Open Your eye, O Jehovah, and see; and hear all the words of Sennacherib which he has sent, to reproach the living God.
Truly, O Jehovah, the kings of Assyria have crushed all the lands, and their land,
and have given their gods into the fire (for they were not gods, only the work of men's hands, wood and stone; so they have destroyed them).
And now, O Jehovah our God, save us from his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that You are Jehovah, You alone.
And Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, So says Jehovah, God of Israel, Because you have prayed to Me against Sennacherib the king of Assyria,
this is the word Jehovah has spoken about him: The virgin, the daughter of Zion, has despised you, laughing you to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem has shaken the head behind you.
Whom have you mocked and reviled? And against whom have you lifted your voice, and lifted your eyes on high? Against the Holy One of Israel!
By your servants, you have mocked the Lord, and said, By my many chariots I have come up to the tops of mountains, the sides of Lebanon; and I will cut down its tall cedars, its choice fir trees; and I will go to its greatest height, the forest of its fruitful field.
I have dug and drunk water; and I have dried up the streams of Egypt with the sole of my feet.
Have you not heard it from afar? I have made it from days of old, even I formed it. Now I have caused it to come, and you are to cause fortified cities to crash into heaps, ruins.
And their inhabitants were short of hand, dismayed and ashamed. They were as the field grass and the green herbs; like the grass of the housetops, even blasted before it has risen.
But I know your sitting down, and your going out, and your coming in, and your raging against Me.
Because of your raging against Me, and your arrogance has come up to My ears, even I will put My hook in your nose, and My bridle in your lips; and I will turn you back by the way you came in.
And this shall be the sign to you: You shall eat self sown grain this year; and the second year, that which springs up; and in the third year you shall sow and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
The remnant of the house of Judah that has escaped shall again take root downward, and it makes fruit upward.
For a remnant shall go out of Jerusalem, and the escaped ones out of Mount Zion; the zeal of Jehovah of Hosts shall do this.
So Jehovah says this to the king of Assyria, He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with a shield, nor pour out a siege mound on it.
He shall return by the same way that he came in, and he shall not come into this city, says Jehovah.
For I will defend over this city to save it, for My own sake, and for My servant David's sake.
Then the Angel of Jehovah went out and struck a hundred and eighty five thousand in the camp of Assyria. And they rose early in the morning; and, behold! They were all dead corpses.
And Sennacherib, king of Assyria, set out, and went and returned; and he lived at Nineveh.
And it happened as he was worshiping in the house of his god Nisroch, even his sons Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him with the sword. And they escaped into the land of Ararat. And his son Esarhaddon reigned in his place.