And, having entered, he was passing through Jericho;
and lo! a man, by name called Zacchaeus, and, he, was a chief tax-collector, and [he] was rich.
And he was seeking to see Jesus, what sort of man he was, and could not for the multitude, because, in stature, he was, small.
And, running forward unto the front, he got up a sycamore-tree, that he might see him; for, by that way, was he about to pass.
And, as he came up to the place, looking up, Jesus said unto him—Zacchaeus! make haste, and come down; For, to-day, in thy house, I must needs abide.
And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.
And all, when they beheld, began to murmur, saying—With a sinful man, hath he gone in to lodge!
But, taking his stand, Zacchaeus said unto the Lord—Lo! the half of my possessions, Lord, unto the destitute, I give; and, if, from anyone, I have taken aught by false accusation, I give back fourfold.
And Jesus said unto him—This day, salvation, unto this house, hath come,—for that, he too, is, a son of Abraham;
For the Son of Man came, to seek and to save what was lost.
And, because they were hearing these things, he added and spake a parable, because of his being near Jerusalem, and their supposing that, instantly, was the kingdom of God to shine forth.
He said, therefore—A certain man, of noble birth, went into a country far away, to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
And, calling ten servants of his own, he gave unto them ten minas, and said unto them—Do business, till I come.
But, his citizens, hated him, and sent off an embassy after him, saying—We desire not, this, man, to be made king over us!
And it came to pass, when he returned, having received the kingdom, that he bade be called unto him these servants, to whom he had given the silver, that he might take note, what business they had done.
And the first came near, saying—Lord! thy mina, hath made, ten minas.
And he said to him—Well done! good servant. Because, in a very small thing, thou hast been, faithful, have thou authority over, ten cities.
And the second came, saying—Thy mina, lord, hath made five minas.
And he said, to him also, And, thou, be over five cities.
And, the other, came, saying—Lord, lo! thy mina, which I kept lying by in a napkin;
For I was afraid of thee, because, a harsh man, thou art,—Thou takest up, what thou layedst not down, and reapest, what thou sowedst not!
He saith to him—Out of thy mouth, do I judge thee, O wicked servant! Thou knewest that, I, a harsh man, am,—taking up, what I laid not down, and reaping, what I did not sow;
Wherefore, then, didst thou not place my silver upon a [money-changer’s] table, and, I, when I came, with interest might have exacted it?
And, unto the by-standers, he said—Take, from him, the mina, and give unto him that hath, the ten minas;—
And they said to him, Lord! he hath ten minas;—
I tell you—Unto everyone that hath, shall be given, whereas, from him that hath not, even what he hath, shall be taken away.
But, these mine enemies who desired not that I should be made king over them, bring ye here, and slay them outright before me.
And, having said these things, he was moving on in front, going up into Jerusalem.
And it came to pass, as he drew near unto Bethphage, and Bethany, unto the mount which is called the Mount of Olives, he sent off two of his disciples,
saying—Go your way unto the opposite village, in which, as ye are entering, ye shall find a colt, bound, whereon, no man, hath, ever sat,—and, having loosed him, bring him.
And, if any one question you—Wherefore are ye loosing him? thus, shall ye say—His Lord, hath, need.
And they who were sent, departing, found as he had said to them.
And, as they were loosing the colt, his lords said unto them—Why are ye loosing the colt?
And, they, said—His Lord, hath, need.
And they brought him unto Jesus; and, throwing their mantles over the colt, they seated Jesus thereon.
And, as he moved along, they were spreading their own mantles in the way.
And, when he was drawing near, already, unto the descent of the Mount of Olives, one-and-all the throng of the disciples began joyfully to be praising God with a loud voice, concerning all the mighty works which they had seen;
saying—Blessed is he that cometh… The king! In the name of the Lord! In heaven, peace! And glory in the highest!
And, certain of the Pharisees from the multitude, said unto him—Teacher! rebuke thy disciples.
And he answered and said—I tell you—If, these, shall hold their peace, the stones, will cry out.
And, when he drew near, beholding the city, he wept over it, saying—
If thou hadst got to know, in this day, even thou, the conditions of peace… But, now, are they hid from thine eyes:
Because days will have come upon thee, that thine enemies will throw around a rampart against thee, and enclose thee; and hem thee in from every side,—
And will level thee with the ground, and thy children within thee, and will not leave, stone on stone, within thee: because thou didst not get to know the season of thy visitation.
And, entering into the temple, he began to be casting out them who were selling;
saying unto them—It is written, And, my house, shall be, a house of prayer; but, ye, have made, it, a den of robbers.
And he was teaching day by day in the temple; but, the High-priests and the Scribes, also the chiefs of the people, were seeking to destroy him,—
and could not find what they might do, for, the people, one and all, were hanging upon him, as they hearkened.