And Jehovah spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
The sons of Israel shall encamp by their fathers' house, every man with his own standard, according to the standards. They shall encamp around the tabernacle of the congregation, afar off.
And those who encamp on the east side, toward the sunrising, are of the standard of Judah's camp, according to their armies, the ruler of the sons of Judah being Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
And his army and those numbered of them were seventy four thousand and six hundred.
And those encamping next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar; the ruler of the sons of Issachar being Nethaneel the son of Zuar;
and his army, and those numbered of them were fifty four thousand and four hundred.
And the tribe of Zebulun; the ruler of the sons of Zebulun being Eliab the son of Helon.
And his army, and those numbered of them were fifty seven thousand and four hundred.
All numbered of the camp of Judah were a hundred and eighty six thousand and four hundred, by their armies. They shall set forth first.
On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben, according to their armies; the ruler of the sons of Reuben being Elizur the son of Shedeur.
And his army, and those numbered of it were forty six thousand and five hundred.
And those that encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon; the ruler of the sons of Simeon being Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
And his army, and those numbered of them were fifty nine thousand and three hundred.
And the tribe of Gad: the ruler of the sons of Gad being Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
And his army, and those numbered of them were forty five thousand, six hundred and fifty.
All numbered of the camp of Reuben were a hundred and fifty one thousand four hundred and fifty according to their armies. And they shall pull out second.
And the camp of the Levites, with the tabernacle of the congregation shall pull out in the middle of the camps. As they encamp, so they shall pull out, each man in his place, by their standards.
On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim, according to their armies; the ruler of the sons of Ephraim being Elishama the son of Ammihud.
And his army, and those numbered of them were forty thousand and five hundred.
And next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh the ruler of the sons of Manasseh, being Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
And his army, and those numbered of them were thirty two thousand and two hundred
And the tribe of Benjamin; the ruler of the sons of Benjamin being Abidan the son of Gideoni.
And his army, and those numbered of them were thirty five thousand and four hundred,
All numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a hundred and eight thousand and one hundred, according to their armies. And they shall pull out third.
On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan, according to their armies; the ruler of the sons of Dan being Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
And his army, and those numbered of them were sixty two thousand and seven hundred.
And those that encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher; the ruler of the sons of Asher being Pagiel the son of Ocran.
And his army, and those numbered of them were forty one thousand and five hundred.
And the tribe of Naphtali; the ruler of the sons of Naphtali being Ahira the son of Enan.
And his army, and those numbered of them were fifty three thousand and four hundred.
All numbered of the camp of Dan were a hundred and fifty seven thousand and six hundred. They shall pull out last by their standards.
These are those numbered of the sons of Israel by their fathers' houses; all numbered of the camps according to their armies were six hundred and three thousand, five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites were not numbered among the sons of Israel, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And the sons of Israel did according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses, so they encamped by their standards, and so they pulled out, each one according to his family, and according to the house of his father.