Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, you are very great; you are clothed with honour and majesty.
Who cover yourself with light as with a garment: who stretch out the heavens like a curtain:
Who lays the beams of his chambers in the waters: who makes the clouds his chariot: who walks upon the wings of the wind:
Who makes his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:
Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever.
You covered it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.
At your rebuke they fled; at the voice of your thunder they hasted away.
They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which you have founded for them.
You have set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.
He sends the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills.
They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.
By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches.
He waters the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your works.
He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;
And wine that makes glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengthens man's heart.
The trees of the LORD are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted;
Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir trees are her house.
The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks for the conies.
He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knows his going down.
You make darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth.
The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God.
The sun arises, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.
Man goes forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening.
O LORD, how manifold are your works! in wisdom have you made them all: the earth is full of your riches.
So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.
There go the ships: there is that leviathan (p. sea serpent), whom you have made to play therein.
These wait all upon you; that you may give them their food in due season.
That you give them they gather: you open your hand, they are filled with good.
You hide your face, they are troubled: you take away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.
You send forth your spirit, they are created: and you renew the face of the earth.
The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall rejoice in his works.
He looks on the earth, and it trembles: he touches the hills, and they smoke.
I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the LORD.
Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless you the LORD, O my soul. Praise all of you the LORD.