Call out with the throat! Do not spare. Lift up your voice like the ram's horn! And show My people their rebellion, and their sins to the house of Jacob.
Yet they seek Me day by day, and desire knowledge of My ways. As a nation that has done right, and not forsaking the judgment of their God, they ask Me about judgments of righteousness; they desire to draw near to God.
They say , Why have we fasted, and You did not see? We have afflicted our soul, and You did not acknowledge. Behold, on the day of your fast you find pleasure; and you drive all your laborers hard.
Look! You fast for strife, and for debate, and to strike with the fist of wickedness. Do not fast as today, to sound your voice in the high place.
Is this like the fast I will choose, a day for a man to afflict his soul? To bow his head down like a bulrush, and he spreads sackcloth and ashes? Will you call to this as a fast and a day of delight to Jehovah?
Is this not the fast I have chosen: to open bands of wickedness, to undo thongs of the yoke, and to let the oppressed ones go free; even that you pull off every yoke?
Is it not to break your bread to the hungry, that you should bring the wandering poor home? When will you see the naked and cover him; and you will not hide yourself from your flesh?
Then your light shall break as the dawn, and your healing shall spring up quickly; and your righteousness shall go before you; the glory of Jehovah shall gather you.
Then you shall call, and Jehovah will answer; you shall cry, and He shall say, Here I am . If you put the yoke away from among you, the sending out of the finger, and the speaking of vanity;
and if you let out your soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then your light shall rise in the darkness, and your gloom shall be as the noonday.
And Jehovah shall always guide you, and satisfy your soul in dry places, and support your bones. And you shall be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters do not fail.
And those who come of you shall build the old ruins; you shall rear the foundations of many generations; and you shall be called, The repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to live in.
If you turn your foot away because of the sabbath, from doing what you please on My holy days, and call the sabbath a delight, glorified to the holiness of doing your own ways, from finding your own pleasure or speaking  your word;
then you shall delight yourself in Jehovah. And I will cause you to ride on the heights of the earth, and make you eat with the inheritance of your father Jacob. For the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.