And if a soul sins, in that he hears the voice of an oath, he being a witness, whether he has seen or known, if he does not testify, then he shall bear his iniquity.
Or if a soul touches any unclean thing, whether it be the carcass of an unclean beast, or the carcass of unclean cattle, or the carcass of unclean creeping things, and it be hidden from him, and he be unclean, then he shall be guilty.
Or if he touch the uncleanness of man, whatever his uncleanness be with which he is unclean, and it be hid from him, when he knows of it, then he shall be guilty.
Or if a soul swears rashly with his lips to do evil, or to do good, whatever it be that a man shall utter rashly with an oath, and it be hid from him, when he realizes it, then he shall be guilty in one of these.
And it shall be, when he shall be guilty in one of these, that he shall confess that by which he has sinned.
And he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah for his sin which he has sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, for a sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him as concerning his sin.
And if his means is not sufficient for a lamb, then he shall bring his trespass offering for that by which he has sinned, two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, to Jehovah, one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering.
And he shall bring them to the priest, who shall offer that which is for the sin offering first, and wring off its head from its neck, but shall not divide it apart.
And he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar, and the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar. It is a sin offering.
And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering, according to the ordinance. And the priest shall make atonement for him as concerning his sin which he has sinned, and he shall be forgiven.
But if his means is not sufficient for two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, then he shall bring his oblation for that by which he has sinned, the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. He shall put no oil upon it, nor shall he put any frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering.
And he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it as the memorial of it, and burn it on the altar, upon the offerings of Jehovah made by fire. It is a sin offering.
And the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin that he has sinned in any of these things, and he shall be forgiven. And the remnant shall be the priest's, as the meal offering.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
If a soul commits a trespass, and sins unwittingly in the holy things of Jehovah, then he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah, a ram without blemish out of the flock, according to thy estimation in silver by shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.
And he shall make restitution for that which he has done amiss in the holy thing, and shall add the fifth part to it, and give it to the priest. And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and he shall be forgiven.
And if a soul sins, and does any of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done, though he did not know it, yet he is guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.
And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, according to thy estimation, for a trespass offering, to the priest. And the priest shall make atonement for him concerning the thing by which he erred unwittingly and knew it not, and he shall be forgiven.
It is a trespass offering. He is certainly guilty before Jehovah.