Go down and sit on the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the earth; a throne is not to the daughter of the Chaldeans; for they shall not again call you tender and delicate.
Take millstones and grind meal; uncover your veil; strip off the skirt; uncover the leg; pass over rivers.
Your nakedness shall be uncovered; yea, your shame shall be seen. I will take vengeance and I will not meet a man.
Our Redeemer; Jehovah of Hosts is His name, the Holy One of Israel.
Sit in silence, and go into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans, for they shall no more call you the mistress of kingdoms.
I was angry with My people; I defiled My inheritance and gave them into your hand. You gave them no mercy; you made your yoke on the aged very heavy.
And you said, I shall be a mistress forever, until you did not set these things on your heart, and not did remember its end.
Now, then, hear this, O pleasure seeker, who lives carelessly; who says in her heart, I am , and none else is ; I shall not sit as a widow, nor shall I know the loss of children.
But these two things shall suddenly come to you, in one day: loss of children, and widowhood; as complete they come on you, for your many sorceries, for the multitude of your great spells.
For you trusted in your evil; you said, No one sees me. Your wisdom and your knowledge perverts you, and you said in your heart, I am and none else is .
For this, evil shall come on you; you shall not know its origin. And mischief shall fall on you; you shall not be able to cover it. And ruin shall come on you suddenly, you shall not know.
Stand now among your spells, and with your many sorceries, in which you have wearied yourself since your youth. Perhaps you will be able to profit; perhaps may cause quaking.
You are exhausted by your many plans; let those dividing the heavens stand up now and save you, the stargazers, making known what is coming on you into the new moons.
Behold, they are as stubble; the fire burns them; they shall not save their soul from the flame's hand; there is no coal to warm them; nor fire, to sit before it.
So they are to you with whom you have labored, your traders from your youth; each one wanders to his own way; no one saves you.