Now, Peter and John, were going up into the temple, for the hour of prayer—the ninth;
And, a certain man, who had been, lame from his mother’s womb, was being carried,—whom they used to lay daily at the door of the temple—the [door] called Beautiful, that he might ask alms of them who were entering into the temple:
Who, seeing Peter and John about to enter into the temple, was requesting to receive, an alms.
But Peter looking steadfastly at him—with John—said: Look on us!
And, he, gave heed unto them, expecting to receive, something from them.
But Peter said—Silver and gold, have none, but, what I have, the same, unto thee do I give:—In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, Walk!
And, laying hold of him by the right hand, he raised him up; and, instantly, were his feet and ankles strengthened;—
And, leaping forward, he stood and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
And all the people saw him, walking and praising God;
And they began to recognise him, that, the same, was he who, for the alms, used to sit at the Beautiful Gate of the temple;—and they were filled with amazement and transport at what had happened unto him.
And, as he held fast Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them, in the portico which is called Solomon’s,—greatly amazed.
And Peter, seeing it, made answer unto the people:—Ye men of Israel! Why marvel ye at this man? Or, upon us, why are ye intently looking, as though, by our own power or godliness, we had made him walk?
The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob,—the God of our fathers, hath glorified his servant Jesus:—whom, ye, indeed, delivered up and denied to Pilate’s, face when he had adjudged to release him;
But, ye, denied, the Holy and Righteous One, and claimed a man that was a murderer to be granted you;
But, the Princely Leader of Life, ye slew:—whom, God, raised from among the dead, whereof, we, are witnesses.
And, by the faith of his name, unto this man whom ye see and know, hath his name given strength,—yea, the faith which is through him, hath given unto him this perfect soundness, over against you all!
And now brethren, I know that by way of ignorance ye acted,—just as even your rulers.
Howbeit, God—what things he had before declared, through the mouth of all the prophets, for his Christ to suffer,—did thus fulfill!
Repent ye, therefore, and turn,—unto the blotting out of your sins; to the end that in that case, there may come seasons of refreshing from the face of the Lord,
And he may send forth him who had been fore-appointed for you—Christ Jesus:
Unto whom, indeed, heaven must needs give welcome, until the times of the due establishment of all things, of which God hath spoken through the mouth of his holy age-past prophets.
Moses, indeed, said—A prophet, unto you, shall the Lord God raise up among your brethren, like unto me: unto him, shall ye hearken respecting all things whatsoever he shall speak unto you.
And it shall be—every soul, whatsoever, which shall not hearken unto that prophet, shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.
But, indeed, all the prophets,—from Samuel and those following after, as many as have spoken, have even announced these days.
Ye, are the sons of the prophets, and of the covenant which God covenanted unto your fathers, saying unto Abraham—And, in thy seed, shall be blessed, all the families of the ground.
Unto you first, God—having raised up his Servant—hath sent him forth, ready to bless you, when ye are turning away, each one, from your wickednesses.