And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to all the congregation of the sons of Israel and say to them, You shall be holy, for I the LORD your God am holy.
You shall each man revere his mother and his father, and keep My sabbaths. I am the LORD your God.
Do not turn to idols, nor make molten gods to yourselves. I am the LORD your God.
And if you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to the LORD, you shall offer it of your own free will.
It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day. And if anything remains until the third day, it shall be burned in the fire.
And if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is abominable. It shall not be accepted.
And anyone that eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy thing of the LORD. And that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corner of your field. And you shall not gather the gleaning of your harvest.
And you shall not glean your vineyard. And you shall not gather the leavings of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and the stranger. I am the LORD your God.
You shall not steal, nor lie, nor be deceitful to one another.
And you shall not swear by My name falsely; nor shall you profane the name of your God. I am the LORD.
You shall not defraud your neighbor nor rob him. The wages of him who is hired shall not stay with you until the morning.
You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling-block before the blind, but shall fear your God. I am the LORD.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment. You shall not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty; but you shall judge your neighbor in righteousness.
You shall not go as a slanderer among your people; you shall not stand against the blood of your neighbor. I am the LORD.
You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall always rebuke your neighbor, and not allow sin on him.
You shall not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people; but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the LORD.
You shall keep My statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with different kinds. You shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed. And you shall not allow clothing mixed of linen and wool to come on you.
And whoever lies with a woman with semen, and she is a slave-girl, betrothed to a husband and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her, there shall be an inquest. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
And he shall bring his trespass offering to the LORD, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, even a ram for a trespass offering.
And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin which he has done. And the sin which he has done shall be forgiven him.
And when you shall come into the land, and shall have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count the fruit of them as uncircumcised. It shall be uncircumcised three years to you. It shall not be eaten.
But in the fourth year all the fruit of them shall be holy to praise the LORD.
And in the fifth year you shall eat of the fruit of it, so that it may yield to you its increase. I am the LORD your God.
You shall not eat anything with the blood. You shall not divine, nor conjure spirits.
You shall not round the side of your head, nor mar the edge of your beard.
You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks on you. I am the LORD.
You shall not prostitute your daughter, to cause her to be a whore, lest the land go whoring, and the land become full of wickedness.
You shall keep My sabbaths and revere My sanctuary. I am the LORD.
You shall not turn to those that have familiar spirits, nor seek to spiritists to be defiled by them. I am the LORD your God.
You shall rise up before the gray head and honor the face of the old man, and fear your God. I am the LORD.
And if a stranger lives with you in your land, you shall not oppress him.
The stranger that dwells with you shall be to you as one born among you, and you shall love him as yourself. For you were strangers in the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.
You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures and weights, or in quantity.
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin. I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
And you shall observe all My statutes and all My judgments, and do them. I am the LORD.