And when anyone will offer a food offering to the LORD, his offering shall be of fine flour. And he shall pour oil on it and put frankincense on it.
And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons, the priests. And he shall take out of it his handful of flour and its oil, with all its frankincense. And the priest shall burn the memorial of it on the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And the rest of the food offering shall be Aaron's and his sons', most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
And if you bring a sacrifice of a food offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
And if your offering is a food offering on the griddle, your offering shall be of fine flour unleavened, mixed with oil.
You shall break it in pieces and pour oil on it. It is a food offering.
And if your offering is a food offering in the frying pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
And you shall bring the food offering that is made of these things to the LORD. And when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar.
And the priest shall take from the food offering a memorial of it, and shall burn it on the altar. It is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD.
And that which is left of the food offering shall be Aaron's and his sons: it is most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
Any food offering which you shall bring to the LORD shall not be made with leaven. For you shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the LORD made by fire.
As an offering of the firstfruits, you shall bring them to the LORD. But they shall not be burned on the altar for a sweet savor.
And every sacrifice of your food offering shall you season with salt. And you shall not allow the salt of the covenant of your God to be lacking from your food offering. You shall offer salt with all your offerings.
And if you bring a food offering of your firstfruits to the LORD, green ears roasted by fire, kernels of a garden, you shall bring near for a food offering your firstfruits,
And you shall put oil on it and lay frankincense on it. It is a food offering.
And the priest shall burn it as incense with its memorial offering from its kernels and from its oil, besides all its frankincense, a fire offering to the LORD.