Hear ye this word, which Yahweh hath spoken, concerning you, ye sons of Israel,—concerning the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt saying:—
Only you, have I acknowledged, of all the families of the ground, For this cause, will I visit upon you all your iniquities.
Can two walk together,—except they meet?
Will a lion roar in the forest, when, prey, he hath none? Will a young lion utter his voice out of his den, when he hath made no capture?
Will a bird fall upon a net to the earth, when there is no, snare, for it? Will a net rise from the ground, when it hath, captured nothing?
Or a horn be blown in a city, and, a people, not tremble? Or calamity happen in a city, and, Yahweh, not have wrought with effect?
Surely My Lord Yahweh, will do, nothing,—except he have disclosed his secret unto his servants, the prophets!
A lion, hath roared, Who will not fear? My Lord Yahweh, hath spoken, Who can forbear to prophesy?
Announce it over the palaces in Ashdod, and over the palaces in the land of Egypt,—and say ye—Gather yourselves together upon the mountains of Samaria, and behold ye—the great disorders in the midst thereof, and the oppressed within her.
Therefore do they not know how to do right, Declareth Yahweh, who are treasuring up violence and spoil in their palaces.
Therefore—Thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh, An adversary! Yea round about the land,—and he who shall bring down, from thee, thy strength, And spoiled shall be thy palaces.
Thus, saith Yahweh, Just as a shepherd rescueth, out of the mouth of the lion, a couple of shankbones, or the tip of an ear, so, shall be rescued the sons of Israel, who are tarrying in Samaria, in the corner of the divan, and on the damask of the luxurious couch.
Hear ye and bear witness, throughout the house of Jacob,—Commandeth My Lord, Yahweh, God of hosts:
That, in the day I visit the transgressions of Israel upon him, then will I punish, concerning the altars of Bethel, So shall the horns of the altar, be broken off, and they shall fall to the ground;
And I will smite the winter house along with the summer house,—and the houses of ivory, shall be destroyed! and the great houses, shall disappear, Declareth Yahweh.