And rising up, all the multitude of them led Him before Pilate.
And they began to accuse Him, saying, We found this one perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying himself to be a king, Christ.
And Pilate questioned Him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And answering, him, He said, You say it .
And Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, I find nothing blameable in this man.
But they insisted, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee to here.
And hearing Galilee, Pilate asked if the man is a Galilean.
And knowing that He is from Herod's jurisdiction, he sent Him up to Herod, he also being in Jerusalem in these days.
And seeing Jesus, Herod greatly rejoiced, for he was wishing to see Him for a long time, because of hearing many things about Him. And he hoped to see some miracle being brought about by Him.
And he questioned Him in many words. But He answered him not a thing.
And the chief priests and the scribes stood fiercely accusing Him.
And having humiliated Him with his soldiery, and mocking Him by putting around Him luxurious clothing, Herod sent Him back to Pilate.
And on that same day, both Pilate and Herod became friends with each other, for before they were at enmity between themselves.
And having called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Pilate said to them, You brought this man to me as perverting the people. And, behold, examining him before you, I found nothing blameable in this man regarding that which you charge against him.
But neither did Herod, for I sent you up to him; and, behold, nothing worthy of death is done by him.
Therefore chastising him, I will release him .
And he had to release to them one at the Feast.
And they all together shouted, saying, Take this one, and release Barabbas to us
( he who was thrown into prison due to some revolt and murder occurring in the city .)
Then Pilate again called out, desiring to release Jesus.
But they shouted, saying, Crucify! Crucify him!
And a third time he said to them, For what evil did this one do? I found no cause of death in him. Therefore, chastising him, I will release him .
But with loud voices they insisted, asking for Him to be crucified. And their voices, and that of the chief priests, prevailed.
And Pilate adjudged their request to be done.
And he released to them the one thrown into prison due to revolt and murder, whom they asked. But he delivered Jesus to their will.
And as they led Him away, having laid hold on a certain Simon, a Cyrenian, coming from a field, they put the cross on him, to bear it behind Jesus.
And a great multitude of people were following Him, and of women who also were bewailing and lamenting Him.
And turning to them, Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep over Me, but weep over yourselves and over your children.
For behold, days will come in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that did not bear, and breasts that did not suckle.
"Then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us! And to the hills, Cover us!" Hosea 10:8
For if they do these things in the green tree, what may take place in the dry?
And two others, two criminals, were led with Him to be put to death.
And when they came on the place being called Skull, they crucified Him and the criminals there, one on the right, and one on the left.
And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. And dividing His garments, they cast a lot. Psa. 22:18
And the people stood watching. And the rulers with them also scoffed, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if this one is the Christ, the elect of God.
And coming near, the soldiers also mocked Him and were offering vinegar to Him,
and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself.
And also an inscription was written over Him, in Greek and Latin and Hebrew letters: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And one of the hanged criminals blasphemed Him, saying, If you are the Christ, save yourself and us.
But answering, the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God, for you are in the same judgment?
And we indeed justly, for we receive things worthy of what we did. But this One did nothing wrong.
And he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when You come in Your kingdom.
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, today you will be with Me in Paradise.
And it was about the sixth hour, and darkness came over all the land until the ninth hour.
And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the Holy Place was torn in the middle.
And crying with a loud voice, Jesus said, Father, "into Your hands I commit My spirit." And saying this, He breathed out the spirit. Psa. 31:5
And seeing the thing happening, the centurion glorified God, saying, Truly, this Man was righteous.
And all the crowd arriving together at this sight, watching the thing happening, beating their breasts, they returned.
And all those known to Him stood at a distance, and the women, those who accompanied Him from Galilee, were seeing these things.
And, behold, a man named Joseph, being a councillor, a good and righteous man.
This one was not assenting to their counsel and deed ( he was from Arimathea, a city of the Jews), and who himself was eagerly expecting the kingdom of God,
coming near to Pilate, this one asked for the body of Jesus.
And taking it down, he wrapped it in linen, and placed it in a quarried tomb, where no one was ever yet laid.
And it was Preparation Day, and a sabbath was coming on.
And also women were following, who were accompanying Him out of Galilee, who watched the tomb, and how His body was placed.
And returning, they prepared spices and ointment. And indeed they rested on the sabbath, according to the commandment.