Then he said to his disciples: It is impossible that causes of offense should not come; but alas for him by whom they come!
It would be better for him that a millstone were hung about his neck, and he were thrown into the sea, than that he should cause one of these little ones to sin.
Take heed to yourselves; if your brother sin against you, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.
And if he sin against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to you and say, I repent, you shall forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord: Increase our faith.
And the Lord said: If you had faith like a grain of mustard, you might say to this sycamine-tree, Be uprooted, and be planted in the sea, and it should obey you.
Which of you that has a servant plowing, or feeding a flock, will say to him immediately, when he comes in from the field, Go and recline at table?
But will he not say to him, Make ready my supper, and gird yourself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunk; and afterward, you shall eat and drink?
Does he thank that servant, because he did what was commanded? I think not.
So also you, when you shall have done all things that you arc commanded to do, say, We are unprofitable servants; for we have done what was our duty to do.
And it came to pass, as he was journeying to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
And as he entered a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, who stood at a distance.
And they lifted up their voice, saying: Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
And when he saw them, he said to them: Go, show yourselves to the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were made clean.
But, one of them, seeing that he was restored to health, turned back, and, with a loud voice, glorified God.
And he fell on his face at his feet, and gave him thanks; and he was a Samaritan.
And Jesus answered and said: Were not the ten cleansed? but where are the nine?
Were there none found to return and give glory to God, but this one of another race?
And he said to him: Arise, and go; your faith has saved you.
And being asked by the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said: The kingdom of God comes not so as to attract attention;
nor shall it be said, Lo here! or Lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is among you.
And he said to his disciples: The days will come, when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and shall not see it.
And they shall say to you, Lo here! or Lo there! go not after them, nor follow them.
For as the lightning that flashes out of one part under heaven, shines to another part under heaven, so shall the Son of man be in his day.
But first he must suffer many things, and be rejected by this generation.
And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man.
They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, till the day in which Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
In like manner also, as it was in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded;
but in the day in which Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
Even thus shall it be in the day in which the Son of man is revealed.
In that day, let not him that is on the house-top, and whose goods are in the house, come down to take them away. Likewise, he that is in the field, let him not turn back.
Remember Lot’s wife.
Whoever will seek to save his life, shall lose it; and whoever will lose his life, shall save it.
I say to you, on that night two men shall be in one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
And they answered and said to him. Where, Lord? And he said to them: Where the body is, there will the vultures be gathered.