I also, brethren, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual men, but as those who are not spiritual, as to babes in Christ.
I fed you with milk, not with meat; for ye were not yet able to bear it. Nor indeed are ye able even now;
for ye are yet unspiritual. For while there is among you rivalry and strife, are ye not unspiritual, and walking after the manner of men?
For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos, are ye not [like common] men?
Who then is Apollos, and who is Paul, but ministers through whom ye believed, and that as the Lord gave to each?
I planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the growth.
So then, neither he that planteth nor he that watereth is anything, but God that giveth the growth.
And he that planteth and he that watereth are one; and each will receive his own reward, according to his own labor.
For we are God’s fellow-laborers; ye are God’s field, ye are God’s building.
According to the grace of God bestowed on me, I, as a skilful master-builder, have laid the foundation; and another buildeth thereon; but let every one take heed, how he buildeth thereon.
For other foundation can no one lay than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus.
But if any one build upon this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble,
the work of every one will be made manifest; for the day will show it; because it is revealed in fire; and the fire itself will prove what every one’s work is.
If the work which any one built thereon remaineth, he will receive reward;
if any one’s work shall be burned up, he will lose the reward; but he will be saved himself, yet as one escaping through fire.
Know ye not, that ye are God’s temple, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?
If any one defaceth the temple of God, God will deface him; for the temple of God is holy, and such are ye.
Let no one deceive himself; if any one thinketh himself wise among you in this world, let him become a fool, that he may become wise.
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written: "He that taketh the wise in their craftiness;"
and again: "The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain."
So then let no one glory in men. For all things are yours;
whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come,—all are yours;
and ye are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.