The first of the sabbaths, Mary Magdalene came early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre and saw the stone taken away from the sepulchre.
Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and said unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him.
Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre.
So they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came first to the sepulchre.
And he, stooping down [and looking in], saw the linen clothes lying; yet he did not go in.
Then came Simon Peter following him and went into the sepulchre and saw the linen clothes lying
and the napkin, that had been [placed] over his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself.
Then that other disciple, who came first to the sepulchre, went in also and he saw and believed.
For as yet they did not know the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead.
Then the disciples went away again unto their own.
But Mary stood outside [near] the sepulchre weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down [and looked] into the sepulchre
and saw two angels in white sitting, the one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been placed.
And they said unto her, Woman, why dost thou weep? She said unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.
And when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing [there] and did not know that it was Jesus.
Jesus said unto her, Woman, why dost thou weep? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said unto him, Lord, if thou didst carry him off, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.
Jesus said unto her, Mary! Turning herself around, she said unto him, Rabboni, which is to say, Master.
Jesus said unto her, Touch me not, for I have not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father and your Father, and [to] my God and your God.
Mary Magdalene came giving the news to the disciples, That I have seen the Lord, and he spoke these things unto me.
Then the same day at evening, being the first of the sabbaths, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said unto them, Peace [be] unto you.
And having said this, he showed them [his] hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord.
Then Jesus said to them again, Peace [be] unto you; as [my] Father has sent me, even so send I you.
And when he had said this, he breathed on [them] and said unto them, Receive ye the Holy Spirit;
unto those whose sins ye release, they shall be released; [and] unto those whose [sins] ye retain, they shall be retained.
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
The other disciples, therefore, said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Unless I shall see in his hands the print of the nails and put my finger into the print of the nails and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe.
And again eight days later, his disciples were within and Thomas with them; [then] Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace [be] unto you.
Then he said to Thomas, Reach here thy finger and behold my hands and reach here thy hand and thrust [it] into my side and be not unbelieving, but faithful.
And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God.
Jesus said unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed; blessed [are] those that have not seen and [yet] have believed.
And Jesus truly did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book;
but these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life in his name.: