Praise the LORD. O give thanks to the LORD; for He is good; for His mercy endures forever.
Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD, or cause all His praise to be heard?
Blessed are those who keep judgment, he who does righteousness at all times.
Remember me, O LORD, with the favor of Your people; O visit me with Your salvation,
that I may see the good of Your chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of Your nation, to glory with Your inheritance.
We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.
Our fathers did not understand Your wonders in Egypt; they did not remember the multitude of Your mercies, but rebelled at the sea, even at the Red Sea.
But He saved them for His name's sake, to make His mighty power known.
And He rebuked the Red Sea, and it was dried up; so He led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.
And He saved them from the hand of the hater, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
And the waters covered their enemies; there was not one of them left.
Then they believed His words; they sang His praise.
They hurried and forgot His works; they did not wait for His counsel;
but they lusted greedily in the wilderness, and tested God in the desert.
And He gave them what they asked, but sent leanness into their soul.
And they were jealous of Moses in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the LORD.
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.
And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
They made a calf in Horeb, and worshiped the melted image.
And they changed their Glory into the likeness of an ox that eats grass.
They forgot God their Deliverer, who had done great things in Egypt;
wonderful works in the land of Ham, fearful things by the Red Sea.
And He said that He would destroy them, if Moses His chosen had not stood before Him in the breach, to turn away His wrath, so that He should not destroy them.
And they despised the pleasant land; they did not believe His word,
but murmured in their tents, and did not listen to the voice of the LORD.
And He lifted up His hand to them, to overthrow them in the wilderness;
to overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.
And they joined themselves to Baal-peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead,
and provoked Him to anger with their doings; and the plague broke in on them.
Then Phinehas stood and interceded, and the plague was stayed.
And it was counted to him for righteousness to all generations forevermore.
And they angered Him at the waters of strife so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes;
because they provoked his spirit so that he spoke rashly with his lips.
They did not destroy the nations as the LORD commanded them;
but were mixed among the nations, and learned their works.
And they served their idols, which were a snare to them.
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons,
and shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; and the land was defiled with blood.
And they were defiled with their works, and went lusting in their doings.
And the wrath of the LORD was kindled against His people, and He detested His inheritance.
And He gave them into the hand of the nations; and those who hated them ruled over them.
And their enemies oppressed them, and they were humbled under their hand.
Many times He delivered them, but they rebelled in their counsel and sank in their iniquities.
And He looked on their affliction when He heard their cry;
and He remembered His covenant for them, and was moved to pity, according to the multitude of His mercies.
And He gave them to tender mercies before the face of all their captors.
Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the nations, to give thanks to Your holy name and to triumph in Your praise.
Blessed is the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting; and let all the people say, Amen. Praise the LORD!