And Job answered and said:
Truly I know it is so; but how can man be just with God?
If he would argue with Him, he cannot answer Him one of a thousand.
He is wise in heart and mighty in strength; who has been hard against Him, and been at peace?
He who moves the mountains, and they do not know; when He overturns them in His anger;
who shakes the earth out of its place, and its pillars tremble;
the One speaking to the sun, and it does not rise; and He sets a seal around the stars;
stretching out the heavens by Himself, and walking on the waves of the sea;
Who made the Bear, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south;
who is doing great things past finding out; yea, marvelous things without number?
Behold, He goes by me, and I do not see Him ; and He passes on, but I do not perceive Him.
Behold, He takes away; who can turn Him back? Who will say to Him, What are You doing?
God will not withdraw His anger; the helpers of pride stoop under Him.
How much less shall I answer Him, and choose my words with Him!
Though I were righteous, I could not answer Him ; I seek mercy for my judgment.
If I had called and He had answered me; I would not believe that He had listened to my voice;
He who breaks me with a tempest, and adds to my wounds without cause;
who will not allow me to take my breath, but fills me with bitterness.
If I speak of strength, behold, He is mighty; and if of judgment, who can summon me?
If I justify myself, my mouth will condemn me; though I am perfect, He shall declare me perverse;
though I were perfect, I would not know my own soul; I despise my life.
It is One; so then I said He is consuming the perfect and the wicked.
If the whip kills suddenly, He will mock at the testing of the innocent.
The earth is given into the hand of the wicked; He covers the faces of its judges. If it is not He, then who is it?
Now my days are swifter than a runner; they flee away; they see no good;
they have passed away like the reed ships; as an eagle swoops on food.
If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will loosen my face and be cheerful,
I am afraid of all my sorrows; I know that You will not hold me innocent;
I have been condemned; why should I labor in vain?
If I wash myself with snow, and make my hands clean with soap,
yet You will plunge me into the ditch, and my own clothes would abhor me.
For He is not a man, as I am, that I should answer Him; that we should come together in judgment;
there is no mediator between us, who might lay his hand on both of us.
Let Him take His rod away from me, and let not His dread make me afraid;
then I would speak, and not fear Him; for I am not so in myself.