And David again gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand.
And David arose, and went with all the people that were with him, from Baale-judah, to bring up from thence the ark of G-d, whereupon is called the Name, even the name of HaShem of hosts that sitteth upon the cherubim.
And they set the ark of G-d upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in the hill; and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart.
And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was in the hill, with the ark of G-d, and Ahio went before the ark.
And David and all the house of Israel played before HaShem with all manner of instruments made of cypress-wood, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with timbrels, and with sistra, and with cymbals.
And when they came to the threshing-floor of Nacon, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of G-d, and took hold of it; for the oxen stumbled.
And the anger of HaShem was kindled against Uzzah; and G-d smote him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of G-d.
And David was displeased, because HaShem had broken forth upon Uzzah; and that place was called Perez-uzzah, unto this day.
And David was afraid of HaShem that day; and he said: 'How shall the ark of HaShem come unto me?'
So David would not remove the ark of HaShem unto him into the city of David; but David carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
And the ark of HaShem remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months; and HaShem blessed Obed-edom, and all his house.
And it was told king David, saying: 'The HaShem hath blessed the house of Obed-edom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the ark of G-d.' And David went and brought up the ark of G-d from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with joy.
And it was so, that when they that bore the ark of HaShem had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling.
And David danced before HaShem with all his might; and David was girded with a linen ephod.
So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of HaShem with shouting, and with the sound of the horn.
And it was so, as the ark of HaShem came into the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at the window, and saw king David leaping and dancing before HaShem; and she despised him in her heart.
And they brought in the ark of HaShem, and set it in its place, in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before HaShem.
And when David had made an end of offering the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of HaShem of hosts.
And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, both to men and women, to every one a cake of bread, and a cake made in a pan, and a sweet cake. So all the people departed every one to his house.
Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said: 'How did the king of Israel get him honour to-day, who uncovered himself to-day in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself!'
And David said unto Michal: 'Before HaShem, who chose me above thy father, and above all his house, to appoint me prince over the people of HaShem, over Israel, before HaShem will I make merry.
And I will be yet more vile than thus, and will be base in mine own sight; and with the handmaids whom thou hast spoken of, with them will I get me honour.'
And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death.