Ye shall make no idols for yourselves nor graven image, neither shall you raise up a title, neither shall ye place [any] painted stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I AM your God.
Keep my sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I [am] the LORD.
If ye walk in my statutes and keep my commandments and do them,
then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.
And your threshing shall last unto the vintage, and the vintage shall last unto the sowing time; and ye shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land safely.
For I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and no one shall make [you] afraid; and I will rid evil beasts out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land.
And ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword.
And five of you shall chase one hundred, and one hundred of you shall put ten thousands to flight; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.
For I will return unto you and make you fruitful and multiply you and establish my covenant with you.
And ye shall eat old store and bring forth the old because of the new.
And I will set my dwelling among you, and my soul shall not abhor you.
And I will walk among you and will be your God, and ye shall be my people.
I AM your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their slaves; and I have broken the bands of your yoke and made you walk [with] your faces uplifted.
But if ye will not hearken unto me and will not do all these my commandments;
and if ye shall despise my statutes or if your soul should abhor my rights so that ye will not do all my commandments [but] that ye break my covenant,
I also will do this unto you: I will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the burning ague that shall consume the eyes and torment the soul, and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.
And I will place my wrath upon you, and ye shall be slain before your enemies; those that hate you shall reign over you; and ye shall flee when no one pursues you.
And if ye will not yet for all this hearken unto me, then I will punish you seven times more for your sins.
And I will break the pride of your stronghold, and I will make your heaven as iron and your earth as bronze.
And your strength shall be spent in vain; for your land shall not yield her increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits.
And if ye walk contrary unto me and will not hearken unto me; I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins.
I will also send wild beasts among you which shall rapture your children and destroy your animals and make you few in number, and your ways shall be desolate.
And if ye will not be corrected by me by these things, but will walk contrary unto me,
then will I also walk contrary unto you and will punish you yet seven times for your sins.
And I will bring an avenging sword upon you, in vindication of the covenant; and ye shall gather together within your cities; but I will send pestilence among you, and ye shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
When I have broken the staff of your bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver [you] your bread again by weight, and ye shall eat and not be satisfied.
And if ye will not for all this hearken unto me but walk contrary unto me,
then I will walk contrary unto you also in fury, and I, even I, will chastise you seven times for your sins.
And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat.
And I will destroy your high places and cut down your images and cast your carcasses upon the carcasses of your idols, and my soul shall abhor you.
And I will make your cities waste and bring your sanctuaries unto desolation, and I will not smell the aroma of your suave [incense].
And I will bring the land into desolation, and your enemies who dwell therein shall be astonished at it.
And I will scatter you among the Gentiles and will draw out a sword after you, and your land shall be desolate and your cities waste.
Then shall the land rest for her sabbaths all the days that it lies desolate, while you are in your enemies' land; [even] then shall the land rest and enjoy her sabbaths.
All the time that it shall be desolate, it shall rest that which it did not rest in your sabbaths when ye dwelt upon it.
And upon those that are left [alive] of you I will send [such] cowardice into their hearts in the lands of their enemies, that the sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them; and they shall flee as fleeing from a sword; and they shall fall when none pursue.
And they shall fall one upon another, as it were before a sword, when none pursue; and ye shall have no power to stand before your enemies.
And ye shall perish among the Gentiles, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up.
And those that are left of you shall pine away for their iniquity in your enemies' lands; and for the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.
And they shall confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers for their trespass which they trespassed against me and that also they have walked contrary unto me,
and [that] I also have walked contrary unto them and have brought them into the land of their enemies; and then their uncircumcised hearts shall be humbled, and they shall plead because their iniquity;
and I will remember my covenant [with] Jacob and likewise my covenant [with] Isaac, and also my covenant [with] Abraham will I remember, and I will remember the land.
That the land shall be without them and shall rest her sabbaths, being desolate because of them; and they shall plead because of their iniquity because they despised my rights and their soul abhorred my statutes.
And yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not cast them away, neither will I abhor them to destroy them utterly and to break my covenant with them; for I AM their God.
But I will remember them [because of] the old covenant, when I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the Gentiles, that I might be their God: I [am] the LORD.
These [are] the statutes and rights and laws, which the LORD established between him and the sons of Israel in mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.: