For the Law which has a shadow of good things to come, not the very image of the things, appearing year by year with the same sacrifices, which they offer continually, they are never able to perfect those drawing near.
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? Because the worshipers, when they had been once for all purged, would have had no more conscience of sin.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again of sins every year.
For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.
Therefore when He comes into the world, He says, "Sacrifice and offering You did not desire, but You have prepared a body for Me.
In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You have had no pleasure.
Then I said, Lo, I come ( in the volume of the Book it is written of Me) to do Your will, O God."
Above, when He said, "Sacrifice and offering, and burnt offerings and offering for sin You did not desire, neither did You have pleasure in them" (which are offered by the Law),
then He said, "Lo, I come to do Your will, O God." He takes away the first so that He may establish the second.
By this will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And indeed every priest stands daily ministering and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
But this Man, after He had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right of God,
from then on expecting until His enemies are made His footstool.
For by one offering He has perfected forever those who are sanctified.
The Holy Spirit also is a witness to us; for after He had said before,
"This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord; I will put My laws into their hearts, and in their minds I will write them,"
also He ads, "their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more."
Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.
Therefore, my brothers, having boldness to enter into the Holy of Holies by the blood of Jesus,
by a new and living way which He has consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, His flesh;
and having a High Priest over the house of God,
let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies having been washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering (for He is faithful who promised),
and let us consider one another to provoke to love and to good works,
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the Day approaching.
For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more sacrifice for sins,
but a certain fearful looking for judgment and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries.
He who despised Moses' law died without mercy on the word of two or three witnesses.
Of how much worse punishment, do you suppose, will be thought worthy to receive punishment, the one who has trampled the Son of God, and who has counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified an unholy thing, and has insulted the Spirit of grace?
For we know Him who has said, "Vengeance belongs to Me, I will repay, says the Lord." And again, "The Lord shall judge His people."
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But call to memory the former days, in which (after you were illuminated) you endured a great fight of afflictions,
indeed being exposed both by reproaches and afflictions, and while you became companions of those who were so used.
For you both sympathized with my bonds and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that you have in Heaven a better and an enduring substance.
Therefore do not cast away your confidence, which has great recompense of reward.
For you have need of patience, so that after you have done the will of God you might receive the promise.
For "yet a little while, and He who shall come will come and will not delay."
Now, "the Just shall live by faith. But if he draws back, My soul shall have no pleasure in him."
But we are not of withdrawal to destruction, but of those who believe to the saving of the soul.