Thou therefore son of man. Prophesy against Gog, and thou shalt say, Thus saith My Lord Yahweh: Behold me! against thee O Gog Prince of Rosh, Meshech and Tubal.
Therefore will I turn thee about and lead thee on, and cause thee to come up out of the remote parts of the North,- And will bring thee in upon the mountains of Israel;
And I will smite thy bow out of thy left hand,- And thine arrows—out of thy right hand, will I cause to fall.
Upon the mountains of Israel, shalt thou fall, Thou and all thy hordes, and the peoples who are with thee,— To birds of prey of every wing. and the wild beast of the field, will I give thee for food:
Upon the, face of the field, shalt thou fall,- For I, have spoken, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
And I will send a fire into Magog, And among them who are dwelling in the Coastlands securely,— So shalt thou know that I am Yahweh.
And my holy Name, will I make known in the midst of my people Israel, And will not suffer my holy Name to be profaned any more,— So shall the nations know that, I am Yahweh, Holy in Israel.
Lo! it is coming, and shall be brought to pass, Declareth My Lord. Yahweh,-the same, is the day whereof I had spoken.
Then shall go forth the dwellers of the cities of Israel and shall make fires of the weapons and burn them, Both buckler and shield, bow and arrows, and handstaff and spear,- And shall make fires of them seven years;
And they shall not take wood out of the field Neither shall they cut down out of the forests,- For of the armour, shall they make fires,- So shall they spoil those who spoiled them And prey on those who preyed on them, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
And it shall come to pass in that day that I will give to Gog a place of memorial for burial in Israel even the valley of them that pass through east of the sea, And it shall be enough to keep back them who would pass through,- and they shall bury there Gog and all his multitude, and shall call it Ge-hamon-gog. [That is "The valley of the multitude of Gog."]
So shall the house of Israel bury them (that they may cleanse the land) —seven months;
Yea all the people of the land, shall bury, and it shall become to them a memorial,—the day that I get myself glory, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.
And, men to keep at it constantly, shall they tell off Men to pass throughout the land, who with the passers-by, shall continue burying, them who have been left on the face of the land to cleanse it,— At the end of seven months, shall they make search.
And when any of the passers-by, in going through the land, shall see a human bone, then shall he set up near it a sign,—until the buriers have buried it, in Ge-hamon-Gog.
Moreover, the name of a city, shall be Hamonah ["To the multitude"] so shall they cleanse the land.
Thou, therefore son of man, Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, Say to the bird of every wing. And to every wild beast of the field. Assemble yourselves and come Gather yourselves from every side, unto my sacrifice which I am sacrificing for you A great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel,- And ye shall eat flesh and drink blood:
The flesh of mighty men, shall ye eat, And the blood of the princes of the earth, shall ye drink.— Rams well-fed lambs and he-goats bullocks, Fatlings of Bashan all of them;
And ye shall eat fat till ye are sated, And drink blood till ye are drunken, Of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you;
So shall ye be sated at my table with horse and chariot team, mighty man and every man of war,— Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.
Thus will I set my glory among the nations, And all the nations, shall see, My judgment which I have executed,—and My hand which I have laid upon them.
So shall the house of Israel know that, I Yahweh, am their God,—from that day and forward;
And the nations shall know That in their iniquity, were the house of Israel exiled because they had committed treachery against me, And so I hid my face from them,— And gave them into the hand of their adversaries, And they fell by the sword all of them.
According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions, dealt I with them,— And so I hid my face from them.
Therefore— Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, Now, will I bring back them of the captivity of Jacob, And have compassion upon all the house of Israel,- And will be jealous for my holy Name;
And they shall bear their confusion, and the punishment of all their treachery wherewith they have committed treachery against me,- When they dwell upon their own soil securely, with none to make them afraid;
When I have brought them back from among the peoples, And gathered them out of the lands of their enemies,- So will I hallow myself in them, before the eyes of the many nations;
And they shall know that, I Yahweh, am their God, When I have carried them into exile among the nations, And shall then gather them upon their own soil,- And shall no more leave any of them there.
Neither will I any more hide my face from them,— In that I have poured out my spirit, upon the house of Israel, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.