And He said to me, Son of man, eat what you find. Eat this roll, and go speak to the house of Israel.
So I opened my mouth, and He made me eat that roll.
And He said to me, Son of man, make your belly eat, and fill your bowels with the roll, this that I give to you. And I ate, and it was in my mouth like honey for sweetness.
And He said to me, Son of man, Go! Come to the house of Israel and speak with My words to them.
For you are not sent to a people of deep lip and hardness of tongue, but to the house of Israel;
not to many peoples of deep lip and of a hard tongue, whose words you cannot hear. If rather I had sent you to them, they would have listened to you.
But the house of Israel is not willing to listen to you, for they are not willing to listen to Me, for all the house of Israel are strong of forehead and hard of heart.
Behold, I have made your face strong over against their faces, and your forehead strong over against their foreheads.
I have made your forehead as an adamant harder than flint. Do not fear them, and do not be frightened by their faces, though they are a house of rebellion.
And He said to me, Son of man, all My words which I speak to you, receive into your heart, and hear with your ears.
And go! Come to the exiles, to the sons of your people, and speak to them, and say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear.
And the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me a sound of a great tumult, saying , Blessed be the glory of Jehovah from His place!
And there was the sound of the wings of the living creatures touching each one to the other, and the sound of the wheels along with them, and the sound of a great tumult.
So the Spirit lifted me up and took me, and I went bitterly in the heat of my spirit, but the hand of Jehovah was strong upon me.
Then I came to the exiles at Tel-abib, those dwelling by the river Chebar. And I sat there where they were sitting. I also dwelt there seven days, being benumbed among them.
And it happened at the end of the seven days, even it happened that the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. And hear the word of My mouth, and warn them from Me.
In My saying to the wicked, Surely you shall die; and you do not warn him, and you do not speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life, he, the wicked, shall die in his iniquity. But I will require his blood at your hand.
And you, because you have warned the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his way, he, the wicked, shall die in his iniquity. But you have delivered your soul.
And when the righteous turns from his righteousness and does injustice, and I lay a stumbling-block before him, he shall die. Since you have not warned him, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he has done shall not be remembered. But I will require his blood at your hand.
But you, because you warned him, the righteous, so that the righteous should not sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live because he is warned. And you have delivered your soul.
And the hand of Jehovah was on me there. And He said to me, Rise up, go forth into the plain, and I will speak with you there.
And I rose up and went forth into the plain. And, behold, there the glory of Jehovah was standing, like the glory which I saw by the river Chebar. And I fell on my face.
And the Spirit entered into me and stood me on my feet and spoke with me. And He said to me, Come, shut yourself within your house.
But you, son of man, behold, they shall put on you cords and shall bind you with them, and you shall not go out among them.
And I will make your tongue cling to your palate, and you shall be dumb. And there shall not be to them a reproving man. For they are a rebellious house.
But in My speaking with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah. He who hears, let him hear; and he who stops, let him stop. For they are a rebellious house.