And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses, on account of the Cushite woman whom he had taken,—for, a Cushite woman, had he taken.
And they said: Is it only and solely with Moses, that Yahweh hath spoken? With us also, hath he not spoken? And Yahweh heard it.
Now, the man Moses, was patient, exceedingly,—above all the sons of earth, who were on the face of the ground.
Then said Yahweh suddenly, unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Come out ye three unto the tent of meeting. And they three went out.
Then Yahweh came down in a pillar of cloud, and stood at the entrance of the tent,—and called Aaron and Miriam, and they both went forth.
Then said he Hear, I beseech you my words. When ye have your prophet, As Yahweh in a vision, will I make myself known, unto him; In a dream, will I speak with him.
Not so, my servant Moses,—In all my house, trusty, is he:
Mouth to mouth, do I speak with him And plainly—not in dark sayings, And the form of Yahweh, doth he discern,—Wherefore then, were ye not afraid to speak against my servant—against Moses?
And the anger of Yahweh kindled upon them and he departed.
And, when, the cloud, removed from off the tent,—lo! Miriam, leprous, like snow! And Aaron turned unto Miriam and lo! …leprous!
Then said Aaron unto Moses,—Oh my lord, do not I beseech thee lay upon us sin, although we have made ourselves foolish, and although we have sinned.
Let her not, I beseech thee, remain like the still-born,—which when it is born of its mother, the half of its flesh is consumed.
Then Moses made outcry unto Yahweh, saying,—O GOD, I beseech thee grant healing. I beseech thee unto her.
And Yahweh said unto Moses: If, her own father, had, but spat, in her face, would she not, have acknowledged the shame for seven days? Let her shut herself up for seven days, outside the camp, and afterwards, let her be received back.
So Miriam shut herself up, outside the camp, for seven days,—and, the people, set not forward, until Miriam had been received back.
Then afterwards, did the people set forward from Hazeroth, and encamped in the desert of Paran.