After these things Jesus revealed Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And He revealed Himself this way:
Simon Peter, and Thomas called the Twin, and Nathanael from Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of His disciples were together.
Simon Peter said to them, I am going out to fish. They said to him, We will go with you also. They went out and entered into a boat immediately. And that night they caught nothing.
But when the morning had come, Jesus stood on the shore. But the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
Then Jesus said to them, Children, Do you have anything to eat? They answered Him, No.
And He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you will find. Therefore they cast, and now they no longer had the strength to draw, from the multitude of fish.
Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loves said to Peter, It is the Lord! Then hearing that it is the Lord, Simon Peter girded on his coat (for he was naked), and cast himself into the sea.
And the other disciples came in a little boat (for they were not far from land, only about two hundred cubits), dragging the net of fish.
Then when they went up on the land, they saw a fire of coals there, and a fish lying on it, and bread.
And Jesus said to them, Bring from the fish which you have now caught.
Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land, full of big fish, a hundred and fifty-three. And though there were so many, the net was not torn.
Jesus said to them, Come, break fast. And none of the disciples dared to ask Him, Who are You? knowing that it was the Lord.
Then Jesus came and took the bread and gave to them, and in the same way the little fish.
This is now the three times Jesus was revealed to His disciples, He being risen from the dead.
Then when they broke fast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me more than these? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Feed My lambs.
He said to him the second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me? He said to Him, Yes, Lord, You know that I love You. He said to him, Feed My sheep.
He said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me? Peter was grieved because He said to him a third time, Do you love Me? And he said to Him, Lord, You know all things, You know that I love You. Jesus said to him, Feed My sheep.
Truly, truly, I say to you, When you were young, you girded yourself and walked where you wished. But when you grow old, you shall stretch forth your hands and another shall gird you and carry you where you do not wish.
He spoke this signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when He had spoken this, He said to him, Follow Me.
Then Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following (the one who also leaned on His breast at supper, and said, Lord, who is he who betrays You?)
Seeing him, Peter said to Jesus, Lord, and what of this one?
Jesus said to him, If I desire that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me.
Then this saying went abroad among the brothers, that that disciple should not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him, He shall not die, but, If I desire that he remain until I come, what is that to you?
This is the disciple who testifies of these things and wrote these things. And we know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many things, whatever Jesus did, which, if they should be written singly, I suppose the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Amen.