And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands.
And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do all of you that which is not lawful to do on the sabbath days?
And Jesus answering them said, Have all of you not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was an hungered, and they which were with him;
How he went into the house of God, and did take and eat the showbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the priests alone?
And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand was withered.
And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.
But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and stood forth.
Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it?
And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth your hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.
And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.
And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles;
Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes,
And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor.
And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;
And they that were vexed with unclean spirits: (o. pneuma) and they were healed.
And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all.
And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be all of you poor: for your is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are all of you that hunger now: for all of you shall be filled. Blessed are all of you that weep now: for all of you shall laugh.
Blessed are all of you, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake.
Rejoice all of you in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets.
But woe unto you that are rich! for all of you have received your consolation.
Woe unto you that are full! for all of you shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh now! for all of you shall mourn and weep.
Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets.
But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you,
Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you.
And unto him that strikes you on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that takes away your cloak forbid not to take your coat also.
Give to every man that asks of you; and of him that takes away your goods ask them not again.
And as all of you would that men should do to you, do all of you also to them likewise.
For if all of you love them which love you, what thank have all of you? for sinners also love those that love them.
And if all of you do good to them which do good to you, what thank have all of you? for sinners also do even the same.
And if all of you lend to them of whom all of you hope to receive, what thank have all of you? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
But love all of you your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and all of you shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.
Be all of you therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.
Judge not, and all of you shall not be judged: condemn not, and all of you shall not be condemned: forgive, and all of you shall be forgiven:
Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that all of you mete likewise it shall be measured to you again.
And he spoke a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch?
The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master.
And why behold you the splinter that is in your brother's eye, but perceive not the beam that is in your own eye?
Either how can you say to your brother, Brother, let me pull out the splinter that is in your eye, when you yourself behold not the beam that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of your own eye, and then shall you see clearly to pull out the splinter that is in your brother's eye.
For a good tree brings not forth corrupt fruit; neither does a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.
A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
And why call all of you me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?
Whosoever comes to me, and hears my sayings, (o. logos) and does them, I will show you to whom he is like:
He is like a man which built an house, and dug deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock.
But he that hears, and does not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great.