Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest haply we let them slip.
For if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just retribution,
how shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation, which at the first was spoken through the Lord, and was confirmed to us through those who heard him,
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his will?
For not to angels did he put in subjection the world to come, of which we are speaking.
But one in a certain place bore testimony, saying, "What is man, that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man, that thou carest for him?
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honor;
thou didst put all things in subjection under his feet." For in that he put all things in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we do not yet see all things put under him.
But we see him who was made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, on account of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor; that by the grace of God he might taste death for every one.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one; for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
saying, "I will declare thy name to my brethren, in the midst of the congregation will I sing praise to thee."
And again, "I will put my trust in him;" and again, "Behold, I, and the children which God gave me."
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner shared in the same, that through death he might bring to nought him who had the power of death, that is, the Devil,
and might deliver those who, through fear of death, were all their life-time subject to bondage.
For surely he doth not help angels, but he helpeth the offspring of Abraham.
Whence it was right for him to be in all respects made like to his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful high-priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
For in that he himself hath suffered, being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.