And David was old, and satisfied with days, and caused his son Solomon to reign over Israel.
And he gathered all Israel's rulers, and the priests, and the Levites.
And the Levites were counted from a son of thirty years and upward; and their number by their heads, as to men, thirty eight thousand.
Of these, twenty four thousand to be overseers over the work of the house of Jehovah; and six thousand were officers and judges;
and four thousand were gatekeepers, and four thousand giving praise to Jehovah with instruments which I made for praising.
And David divided them into divisions of the sons of Levi, of Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
Of the Gershonites: Laadan and Shimei.
The sons of Laadan were Jehiel the head, and Zetham, and Joel, three.
The sons of Shimei: Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers of Laadan.
And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush and Beriah; these four the sons of Shimei.
And Jahath was the head, and Zizah the second. But Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons. And they were in one roster, a father's house.
The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.
The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was separated so that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons perpetually to burn incense before Jehovah, to minister to Him and to bless in His name perpetually.
And as to Moses the man of God, his sons were named of the tribe of Levi.
The sons of Moses were Gershom and Eliezer.
Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the head.
And the sons of Eliezer: Rehabiah the head. And Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.
Of the sons of Izhar, Shelomith was the head.
Of the sons of Hebron, Jeriah was the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third and Jekameam the fourth.
Of the sons of Uzziel, Michah was the first and Jesiah the second.
Mushi and Mahli were the sons of Merari. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
And Eleazar died. And he had no sons, but he had daughters. And their brothers, the sons of Kish, took them.
The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
These were the sons of Levi to the house of their fathers, the heads of the fathers, to their rosters, by number of names, by their heads, who did the work for the service of the house of Jehovah from the son of twenty years and over.
For David said, Jehovah God of Israel has given rest to His people so that they may dwell in Jerusalem perpetually,
and also to the Levites; there was no need to carry the tabernacle nor all its vessels for its service.
For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from a son of twenty years and above,
because their office was to wait on the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of Jehovah, in the courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things, and the work of the service of God's house,
both for the Bread of Arrangement, and for the fine flour for food offering, and for the unleavened cakes, and for the pan, and for what is soaked in oil , and for every measure and size,
and to stand every morning to thank and praise Jehovah, and likewise at evening.
And they were to offer all burnt sacrifices to Jehovah in the sabbath, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number, according to the order commanded to them, continually before the face of Jehovah,
and that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the charge of the Holy Place, and the charge of Aaron's sons, their brothers, in the service of the house of Jehovah.