Having said these things, Jesus, went out, with his disciples, across the winter-torrent of the Kedron, where was a garden,—into which he entered, he, and his disciples.
Now, Judas also, who was delivering him up, knew the place: because, oft, had Jesus been gathered there, with his disciples.
Judas, therefore, receiving the band, and officers, from among the High-priests and [from among] the Pharisees, cometh thither, with lights and torches and weapons.
Jesus, therefore, knowing all the things coming upon him, went forth, and saith unto them—Whom, seek ye?
They answered him—Jesus, the Nazarene. He saith unto them—I, am he. Now Judas also, who was delivering him up, was standing with them.
When, therefore, he said unto them, I, am he, they went backwards, and fell to the ground.
Again, therefore, he questioned them—Whom, seek ye? And, they, said—Jesus, the Nazarene.
Jesus answered—I told you, I, am he. If, then, ye seek me, let these go their way:—
that the word might be fulfilled which he had said—As touching them whom thou hast given me, I lost from among them, not so much as one.
Simon Peter, therefore, having a sword, drew it, and smote the High-priest’s servant, and cut off his right ear. Now the name of the servant was Malchus.
Jesus, therefore, said unto Peter—Thrust the sword into its sheath:—The cup which the Father hath given me, shall I in anywise not drink it?
The band, therefore, and the captain, and the officers of the Jews, apprehended Jesus, and bound him,
and led him unto Annas, first; for he was father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was the High-priest of that year.
Now Caiaphas was he that gave counsel unto the Jews, that it was profitable for, one man, to die in behalf of the people.
And Simon Peter was following with Jesus, also another disciple. But, that disciple, was known unto the High-priest, and entered in, with Jesus, into the court of the High-priest;
whereas, Peter, remained standing at the door outside. The other disciple, therefore, that was known of the High-priest, went out, and spake unto the portress, and brought in Peter.
The female servant, therefore, the portress, saith unto Peter—Art, thou also, from among the disciples of this man? He, saith—I am not!
Now the servants and the officers were standing by, having made, a coal fire, because it was cold,—and were warming themselves; and Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself.
The High-priest, therefore, questioned Jesus concerning his disciples, and concerning his teaching.
Jesus answered him—I, openly, have spoken, unto the world,—I, ever, taught, in synagogue, and in the temple, where all the Jews gather together; and, in secret, spake nothing:
Why questionest thou me? question them who have heard, what I spake unto them. See! these, know what, I, said.
And, when, these things, he had said, one of the officers who was standing by, gave a smart blow to Jesus, saying—Thus, answerest thou, the High-priest?
Jesus answered him—If, with abuse, I spake, bear witness of the abuse: but, if with respect, why, smitest thou me?
Annas therefore sent him forth, bound, unto Caiaphas the High-priest.
Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. They said, therefore, unto him—Art, thou also, from among his disciples? He, denied, and said—I am not!
Saith one from among the servants of the High-priest, being, kinsman, of him whose ear Peter cut off,—Did not, I, see thee, in the garden with him?
Again, therefore, Peter denied. And, straightway, a cock crew.
So they lead Jesus from Caiaphas unto the judgment-hall. Now it was early; and, they themselves, entered not into the judgment-hall, that they might not be defiled, but might eat the passover.
Pilate, therefore, went forth outside unto them, and saith,—What accusation bring ye against this man?
They answered and said unto him—If this one had not been doing, mischief, unto thee, had we not delivered him up.
Pilate, therefore, said unto them—Ye, take him, and, according to your law, judge ye him. The Jews said unto him—Unto us, it is not allowed, to kill anyone!—
that, the word of Jesus, might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying, by what manner of death, he was about to die.
Pilate, therefore, entered again into the judgment-hall; and addressed Jesus, and said unto him—Art, thou, the king of the Jews?
Jesus answered—Of thyself, art, thou, this thing saying; or did, others, tell thee concerning me?
Pilate answered—Am, I, a Jew? Thine own nation, and the High-priests, delivered thee up, unto me! What, hast thou done?
Jesus answered—My kingdom, is not of this world: If, of this world, had been my kingdom, mine own officers, would have been striving, that I should not be delivered up unto the Jews: but, now, my kingdom, is not from hence.
Pilate, therefore, said unto him—And yet, thou, art, not a king? Jesus answered—Thou, sayest, that, a king, I am: I, for this, have been born, and, for this, have come into the world,—that I may bear witness unto the truth: Every one who is of the truth, hearkeneth unto my voice.
Pilate saith unto him—What, is truth? And, this saying, again, went he out to the Jews, and saith unto them,—I, find in him, not a single fault.
Howbeit ye have, a custom, that, some one, I should release unto you, during the passover:—Are ye minded, then, that I release unto you the king of the Jews?
So they cried aloud again, saying—Not this man, but Barabbas! Now, Barabbas, was, a robber.