For we know that if the earthly house of our tent were destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made by hands, eternal in the heavens.
For also in this we groan, longing to clothe ourselves with our habitation from heaven,
if indeed also having put it on we will not be found naked.
For also those who are in the tent groan, being burdened, not in that we want to undress, but to clothe ourselves, so that the mortal may be swallowed up by the life.
Now he who wrought us for this same thing is God, who also gave us the pledge of the Spirit.
Therefore always being confident, and knowing that while at home in the body we are absent from the Lord,
for we walk by faith, not by sight.
And we are confident, and are pleased rather to be absent from the body and to be at home near the Lord.
Therefore also we aspire, whether at home or away from home, to be well-pleasing to him.
For we must all appear before the judgment-seat of the Christ, so that each man may receive back about the things that he did through the body, whether good or bad.
Having seen therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. But we have been manifested to God, and I hope also to have been manifested in your consciences.
For we are not commending ourselves again to you, but giving you an opportunity of boasting about us, so that ye may have for those who boast in appearance and not in heart.
For whether we are beside ourselves to God, or we are of normal mind, it is for you.
For the love of Christ holds us together, having judge this, that if one died for all, then all died.
And he died for all so that those who live would no longer live to themselves, but to him who died for them, and was raised.
So that henceforth we know no man according to flesh, and even if we have known Christ according to flesh, yet now we know him no longer.
So then if any man is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old things have passed away, behold, all things have become new.
And all things are from God who reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ, and who gave to us the ministry of reconciliation.
How that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not imputing to them their trespasses, and having committed to us the word of reconciliation.
We are therefore, ambassadors on behalf of Christ, as though God were calling through us. We plead on behalf of Christ, be ye reconciled to God.
For the man who knew no sin was made sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him.