For brothers, you yourselves know our entrance to you, that it has not been without fruit.
But also suffering before and being insulted in Philippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to speak the gospel of God to you in much agony.
For our exhortation was not of error, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile;
but even as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not as pleasing men, but God, who tests our hearts.
For neither were we then found with words of flattery, even as you know, nor with pretense of covetousness (God is witness),
nor seeking glory from men, neither from you, nor from others, having been able to be so with the weight of glory as apostles of Christ.
But we were gentle in your midst, even as a nurse should warmly cherish her children.
Longing over you in this way, we were pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own souls, because you have become beloved to us.
For, brothers, you remember our labor and toil, night and day, working in order not to put a burden on any one of you, we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.
You and God are witnesses how holily and righteously and blamelessly we were to you, those believing;
even as you know how I was to each one of you, as a father to his children, exhorting and consoling you,
testifying for you to walk worthily of God, He calling you to His kingdom and glory.
And because of this we give thanks to God without ceasing, that having received the Word of hearing from us, you welcomed it as of God, not as a word of men, but as it is, truly the Word of God, which also works in you, the ones believing.
For, brothers, you became imitators of the churches of God being in Judea in Christ Jesus, because you also suffered these things by your own fellow countrymen, as they also by the Jews,
who both killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, also driving us out, and not pleasing God, and being contrary to all men,
hindering us from speaking to the nations in order that they be saved, to fill up their sins always. But the wrath has come on them to the uttermost.
But, brothers, we being taken away from you for an hour's time, in presence, not in heart, we were much more eager with much desire to see your face.
Because of this, we desired to come to you, truly I, Paul, both once and twice; but Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of glorying? Are you not even to be before our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming?
For you are our glory and joy.