The sons of Judah: Pharez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal.
And Reaiah, the son of Shobal, begat Jahath, and Jahath begat Ahumai and Lahad. These [are] the families of the Zorathites.
And these [were of] the father of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash, and the name of their sister [was] Hazelelponi.
And Penuel, the father of Gedor, and Ezer, the father of Hushah. These [were] the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.
And Ashur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
And Naarah gave birth to Ahuzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari unto him. These [were] the sons of Naarah.
And the sons of Helah: Zereth, Jezoar, and Ethnan.
And Coz begat Anub and Zobebah and the family of Aharhel, the son of Harum.
And Jabez was more honoured than his brethren, and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I gave birth to him with sorrow.
And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou would bless me indeed and enlarge my border and that thy hand might be with me and that thou would deliver [me] from evil, that it may not grieve me! And God granted him that which he requested.
And Chelub, the brother of Shuah, begat Mehir, who [was] the father of Eshton.
And Eshton begat Bethrapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of Irnahash. These [are] the men of Rechah.
The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel: Hathath
and Meonothai, who begat Ophrah. And Seraiah begat Joab, the father of the inhabitants of the valley of Charashim, for they were craftsmen.
The sons of Caleb, the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam; and Kenaz was the son of Elah.
The sons of Jehaleleel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.
And the sons of Ezra: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon; and also begat Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa.
And his wife Jehudijah gave birth unto him Jered, the father of Gedor, and Heber, the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel, the father of Zanoah. And these [are] the sons of Bithiah, the daughter of Pharaoh, which Mered took.
And the sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, [were] the father of Keilah, the Garmite, and Eshtemoa, the Maachathite.
And the sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Benhanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Benzoheth.
The sons of Shelah, the son of Judah: Er, the father of Lecah, and Laadah, the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of those that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea,
and Jokim and the men of Chozeba, and Joash and Saraph, who had the dominion in Moab, and Jashubilehem. And [these are] ancient words.
These [were] the potters and those that dwelt among plants and hedges, who dwelt there with the king for his work.
The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Saul;
also Shallum, his son, Mibsam, his son, and Mishma, his son.
The sons of Mishma: Hamuel, his son, Zacchur, his son, Shimei his son.
And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters, but his brethren did not have many children, neither did all their family multiply, like the sons of Judah.
And they dwelt at Beersheba and Moladah and Hazarshual
and at Bilhah and at Ezem and at Tolad
and at Bethuel and at Hormah and at Ziklag
and at Bethmarcaboth and Hazarsusim and at Bethbirei and at Shaaraim. These [were] their cities until the reign of David.
And their villages [were] Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five cities;
and all their villages that [were] round about the same cities, unto Baal. These [were] their habitations and their genealogy.
And Meshobab and Jamlech and Joshah, the son of Amaziah,
and Joel and Jehu, the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
and Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah,
and Ziza, the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah.
These mentioned by [their] names [were] princes in their families, and they were multiplied greatly in the house of their fathers.
And they came unto the entrance of Gedor, [even] unto the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.
And they found fat pasture and good, and the land [was] wide and spacious and quiet and peaceable, for [the sons] of Ham had dwelt there of old.
And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah and smote their tents and the habitations that were found there and destroyed them utterly unto this day and dwelt in their place because [there was] pasture there for their flocks.
And likewise five hundred men of them, of the sons of Simeon, went to Mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah and Neariah and Rephaiah and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped and dwelt there unto this day.: