In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, began Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.
Sixteen years old, was he when he began to reign, and, fifty-two years, reigned he in Jerusalem,—and, the name of his mother, was Jecholiah, of Jerusalem.
And he did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh,—according to all that, Amaziah his father, had done.
Only, the high places, took they not away,—still were the people sacrificing and burning incense in the high places.
And Yahweh smote the king, so that he became a leper, until the day of his death, and dwelt in a lazar-house,—and, Jotham, son of the king, was over the house, judging the people of the land.
Now, the rest of the story of Azariah, and all that he did, are, they, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah.
And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers, in the city of David,—and, Jotham his son, reigned, in his stead.
In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, began Zechariah son of Jeroboam to reign over Israel, in Samaria, [and he reigned] six months.
And he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh, as did his fathers,—he turned not away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he caused, Israel, to commit.
Then conspired against him, Shallum son of Jabesh, and smote him before the people, and slew him,—and reigned in his stead.
Now, the rest of the story of Zechariah, behold it! written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
That, was the word of Yahweh, which he spake unto Jehu, saying, Thy sons, to four generations, shall sit on the throne of Israel. And it was so!
Shallum the son of Jabesh, began to reign, in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah, king of Judah,—for the space of a month in Samaria.
Then came up Menahem son of Gadi, from Tirzah, and entered Samaria, and smote Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria,—and slew him, and reigned in his stead.
Now, the rest of the story of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he made, behold them! written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel!
Then, Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and the boundaries thereof, from Tirzah, because they opened not, therefore he smote them,—all the women therein that were with child, he ripped up.
In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, began Menahem son of Gadi to reign over Israel, ten years [reigned he], in Samaria.
And he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh,—he turned not away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he caused, Israel, to commit, all his days.
Pul the king of Assyria came against the land, so Menahem gave unto Pul, a thousand talents of silver,—that his hands might be with him, to confirm the kingdom, in his hand.
And Menahem exacted the silver of Israel, of all the mighty men of wealth, to give to the king of Assyria, fifty shekels of silver, of each man,—so the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed not there, in the land.
Now, the rest of the story of Menahem, and all that he did, are, they, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
And Menahem slept with his fathers,—and, Pekahiah his son, reigned in his stead.
In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, began Pekahiah son of Menahem to reign over Israel, in Samaria, [and he reigned] two years.
And he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh,—he turned not away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he caused, Israel, to commit.
And there conspired against him—Pekah son of Remaliah, a hero of his, and smote him in Samaria, in the citadel of the house of a king, with Argob and with Arieh, and, with him, fifty men of the sons of the Gileadites,—and he slew him, and reigned in his stead.
Now, the rest of the story of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold them! written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel!
In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, began Pekah son of Remaliah to reign over Israel, in Samaria, [and he reigned] twenty years.
And he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh,—he turned not away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he caused, Israel, to commit.
In the days of Pekah king of Israel, came Tiglath-pileser, king of Assyria, and took Ijon, and Abel-beth-maachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali—and carried them away captive to Assyria.
And Hoshea son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah, son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his stead,—in the twentieth year of Jotham, son of Uzziah.
Now, the rest of the story of Pekah, and all that he did, behold them! written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel!
In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel, began Jotham son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.
Twenty-five years old, was he, when he began to reign, and, sixteen years, reigned he, in Jerusalem,—and, the name of his mother, was Jerusha, daughter of Zadok.
And he did that which was right in the eyes of Yahweh,—according to all that Uzziah his father had done.
Only, the high places, took they not away, still were the people offering sacrifice and burning incense in the high places,—he, built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh.
Now, the rest of the story of Jotham, what he did, is, it, not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
In those days, began Yahweh to send against Judah, Rezin, king of Syria,—and Pekah son of Remaliah.
And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers, in the city of David his father,—and, Ahaz his son, reigned, in his stead.