And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and let them return and camp before Pihahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, before Baal-zephon. You shall camp opposite it , by the sea.
And Pharaoh will say as to the sons of Israel, They are entangled in the land, the wilderness has shut them in,
And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he will pursue you. And I will be honored through Pharaoh, and through all his armies. And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah. And they did so.
And it was told to the king of Egypt that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and his servants was turned as to the people. And they said, What is this we have done? For we have sent away Israel from serving us.
And he prepared his chariots. And he took his people with him.
And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and officers over all of them.
And Jehovah hardened Pharaoh king of Egypt's heart. And he pursued the sons of Israel. And the sons of Israel were going out with a high hand.
And the Egyptians pursued them. And they overtook them camping by the sea, all the horses and the chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, by Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon.
And Pharaoh came near, and the sons of Israel raised their eyes, and, behold! The Egyptians were marching after them! And they were greatly afraid. And the sons of Israel cried to Jehovah.
And they said to Moses, Were there no graves in Egypt, that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? What is this you have done to us, to bring us out from Egypt?
Is this not the word which we spoke to you in Egypt, saying, Go away from us, and let us serve the Egyptians. For it is better for us to serve the Egyptians, than to die in the wilderness.
And Moses said to the people, Do not be afraid. Take your stand and see the salvation of Jehovah, which He will prepare for you today. For as you see the Egyptians today, you shall not continue to see them again forever.
Jehovah will fight for you, and you be silent.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Why do you cry to Me? Speak to the sons of Israel, and let them pull up.
And you raise your staff, and stretch out your hand over the sea, and divide it so that the sons of Israel may go in the midst of the sea on dry ground.
And behold! I am about to harden the heart of the Egyptians. And they will go after them. And I will be honored through Pharaoh and through his armies, through his chariots, and through his horsemen.
And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah, in my being honored through Pharaoh, through his chariots, and through his horsemen.
And the Angel of God withdrew, the One going before the camp of Israel. And He went behind them. And the pillar of cloud withdrew from before them, and it stood behind them.
And it came between the camp of Egypt and the camp of Israel. And it was cloudy and dark. And it gave light to the night; and this one did not come near to that one all night.
And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and Jehovah caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all night. And He made the sea dry land, and the waters divided.
And the sons of Israel came into the middle of the sea on dry ground, the waters being a wall to them from their right and from their left.
And the Egyptians pursued, and all the horses of Pharaoh came after them, his chariots and his horsemen, into the middle of the sea.
And it happened in the morning watch: Jehovah looked on the camp of the Egyptians in the pillar of fire and cloud. And He confused the camp of the Egyptians.
And He took off the wheels of their chariots, and made them drive with difficulty. And the Egyptians said, I will flee from the face of Israel, for Jehovah is fighting for them against the Egyptians.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the sea, and let the waters return on the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their horsemen.
And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its usual flow, at the turning of the morning, and the Egyptians were fleeing to meet it. And Jehovah shook off the Egyptians into the middle of the sea.
And the waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen, together with all the army of Pharaoh, those going after them into the sea. And not even one was left among them.
And the sons of Israel walked on dry ground in the middle of the sea, the waters being a wall for them, from their right and from their left.
And Jehovah saved Israel in that day from the hand of Egypt. And Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the lip of the sea.
And Israel saw the great hand with which Jehovah worked against Egypt. And the people feared Jehovah, and they believed in Jehovah and in His servant Moses.