THEN calling his twelve disciples, he gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.
And he said to them, Take nothing for the journey, neither staffs, nor satchel, nor bread, nor money, nor have two coats each.
And into whatsoever house ye enter, there abide, and thence go out.
And whosoever shall not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the dust from your feet, for a testimony against them.
And they went forth, and passed through the villages, preaching the gospel, and performing cures everywhere.
Then Herod the tetrarch heard of all things that were done by him; and he was in much distraction of mind, because it was said by some, that John was risen from the dead:
and of some that Elias had appeared; and of others, that one of the ancient prophets was risen again.
And Herod said, John I beheaded; but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him.
And when the apostles returned, they told him what they had done. And taking them, he withdrew privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.
But when the multitudes knew it, they followed him and receiving them, he spake to them concerning the kingdom of God, and healed those who had need of a cure.
Now the day began to decline: and the twelve coming to him, said, Dismiss the multitude, that going away into the villages and farms round about, they may lodge and find provision; for here we are in a desert place.
Then he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves, and two fishes; unless we go somewhere and buy provisions for all this multitude:
for there were about five thousand men. Then said he to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties each in companies.
And they did so: and they made them all sit down.
And taking the five loaves, and the two fishes, looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.
And they did all eat, and were filled; and there were taken up of the fragments which were more than enough for them, twelve baskets.
And it came to pass, as he had been praying in retirement, his disciples were with him, and he asked them, Who do the multitudes say that I am?
And they answering said, John the Baptist; but some Elias; and others, that one of the old prophets is risen again.
And he said to them, But who do ye say that I am? Then Peter answering said, The Messiah of God.
And strictly charging them, he commanded, that they should tell no man this:
saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and chief priests, and scribes, and be put to death, and on the third day rise again.
And he said unto them, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.
For whosoever would preserve his life shall lose it; but whosoever would lose his life for my sake, shall preserve it.
For what advantage hath a man in gaining all the would, if he destroy himself, or be punished with the loss of life?
For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in his own glory, and his father’s, and of the holy angels.
And I tell you of a certainty, there are some of those who stand here, who shall not taste death, till they see the kingdom of God.
And it was about eight days after these discourses, that taking Peter, and John, and James, he went up into a mountain to pray.
And it came to pass, as he was at prayer, that the appearance of his countenance was altered, and his raiment white and refulgent.
And, lo! two men conversed with him, who were Moses and Elias:
who appeared in glory, and mentioned his departure, which he was ready to accomplish at Jerusalem.
But Peter and they who were with him were weighed down with sleep: but when they awoke, they beheld his glory, and the two men who were standing with them.
And it came to pass, as they were departing from him, Peter said unto Jesus, it is well that we are here, and we will make three tents, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias; not knowing what he said.
And as he was thus speaking, a cloud came and overshadowed them: and they were afraid as they were entering into the cloud.
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son; hear him.
And when the voice ceased, Jesus was found alone. And they held their peace, and told no man in those days a word of the things which they had seen.
And it came to pass, on the next day, when they came down from the mountain, a great multitude met him.
And, behold, a man from among the multitude cried out aloud, saying, Master, I pray thee, look upon my son; for he is my only begotten.
And, behold! a spirit taketh him, and suddenly he crieth out, and convulseth him, with foaming; and bruising him, with difficulty retires from him.
And I besought thy disciples that they would cast him out, and they could not.
Then Jesus answering, said, O faithless and perverse generation! how long shall I be with you, how long shall I bear with you? bring hither thy son.
And while he was yet approaching the devil threw him down, and violently convulsed him. Then Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and cured the child; and restored him to his father.
And they were all struck with amazement at the mighty power of God. And while they were all wondering at the things which Jesus did, he said to his disciples,
Keep ye these sayings in your ears; for the Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men.
And they understood not that declaration, and it was hid from them, that they should not comprehend its meaning: and they were afraid to ask him concerning that saying.
Then a dispute sprang up among them, which of them should be the greatest.
But Jesus knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a little boy, and set him by his side,
and said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this little child in my name, receiveth me; and whosoever receiveth me, receiveth Him that sent me: for he who is the least among you all, he shall be great.
Then John addressing him said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbad him, because he followed not with us.
And Jesus said to him, Forbid him not; for he that is not against us, is for us.
And it came to pass, as the days hastened to their period when he should be received up to glory, that he resolutely set his face to go to Jerusalem;
and sent messengers before his face; and they advancing entered into a Samaritan village, to make preparation for him.
And they would not admit him, because his face was directed to Jerusalem.
And when the disciples James and John saw it, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and destroy them, just as Elias did?
And turning to them, he reproved them, and said, Ye know not what spirit ye are of:
for the Son of man came not to destroy men’s lives, but to preserve them. And he proceeded to another village.
And it came to pass, as they were walking on the road, a certain person said to him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
And Jesus Said to him, The foxes have holts, and the birds of the air, nests, but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
And he said to another, Follow me. And he said, Lord, permit me first to return home, and put my father in his grave.
And Jesus said unto him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead, but go thou, preach the kingdom of God.
Then said another, I will follow thee, Lord, but give me leave first to bid adieu to those at my house.
But Jesus said unto him, No man laying his hand on the plough, and looking to the things left behind, is fit for the kingdom of God.