And I saw when the Lamb opened the first of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying, with a voice like thunder, Come and see.
And I saw, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown was given to him; and he went forth conquering, and to conquer.
And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, Come and see.
And there went forth another horse, which was red; and to him that sat on him was given to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another; and there was given to him a great sword.
And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, Come and see. And I saw, and behold, a black horse; and he that sat on him had a pair of scales in his hand.
And I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying: A chœnix of wheat for a denarius, and three chœnices of barley for a denarius; and as to the oil and the wine, see that you do no injustice.
And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, Come and see.
And I saw, and behold, a pale horse; and the name of him that sat upon him was Death: and Hades followed with him. And authority was given to him over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with the sword, and with famine, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.
And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they had borne:
and they cried with a loud voice, saying: How long, O Sovereign, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
And a white robe was given to each of them: and it was said to them, that they should yet rest for a time, till the number of their fellow-servants,, and of their brethren, who should be killed as they had been, should be completed.
And I saw when he had opened the sixth seal; and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became like blood:
and the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as a fig-tree casts its unripe figs when shaken by a violent wind:
and the heaven departed as a volume when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of its place:
and the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the officers, and the rich men, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every freeman, hid themselves in the caves, and in the rocks of the mountains,
and said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:
for the great day of his wrath has come, and who is able to stand?