Now concerning the things of which you wrote to me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman.
But, to avoid lewd practices, let every man have his own wife, and every woman her own husband.
Let the husband render to the wife that which is due, and likewise, also, the wife to the husband.
The wife has not power over her own body, but the husband; likewise, also, the husband has not power over his own body, but the wife.
Debar not one another, unless by agreement for a time, that you may have leisure for prayer; and come together again, lest Satan tempt you through your incontinence.
But this I say by permission, not by commandment:
for I could wish that all men were even as I am myself. But each one has his own gift from God, one in this way, another in that.
But I say to the unmarried and to the widows: It would be good for them, if they remain as I myself.
But if they can not be continent, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn.
But to the married I give commandment, not I, but the Lord: Let not the wife leave her husband:
but if she leave him, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband: and, let not the husband put away his wife.
But to the rest, I, and not the Lord, say: If any brother has a wife that believes not, and she is well pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away.
And if any woman has a husband that believes not, and he is well pleased to dwell with her, let her not put him away.
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband; for if not, then are your children unclean; but now they are holy.
But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart; the brother or sister is not bound in such cases. But God has called us to live in peace.
For how do you know, O wife, but that you may save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, but that you may save your wife?
But as God has assigned a place to every one, as the Lord has called every one, so let him continue to live: and so do I command in all the churches.
Has any one been called that had been circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the mark of circumcision. Has any one been called that had not been circumcised? Let him not be circumcised,
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing; but the keeping of the commandments of God is our aim.
Let every one remain in that condition in which he was, when called.
Were you a servant when you were called? Care not for it. But if you can become free, rather enjoy your freedom.
For he that is in the Lord, having been called when a servant, is the Lord’s freedman. Likewise, also, the freeman who has been called, is Christ’s servant.
You have been bought with a price; become not the servants of men.
Brethren, let every one, in whatever condition he is called, abide in this with God.
But with respect to virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord: yet I give my judgment as one that is enabled, by the mercy of the Lord, to be faithful.
I think, then, that this is good for the present affliction―that it is good for a man to be as he is.
Are you bound to a wife? Seek not a separation. Are you loosed from a wife? Seek not a wife.
But if you should marry, you would not sin. And if a virgin should marry, she would not sin. But such will have affliction in the flesh. But I spare you.
Now, this I say, brethren, the time is fraught with trials. It remains that those who have wives be as though they had them not;
and those who weep, as though they wept not; and those who rejoice, as though they rejoiced not; and those who buy, as though they possessed not:
and those who use this world, as not abusing it; for the outward show of this world passes away.
But I would have you to be without anxiety. The unmarried man is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord:
but he that is married, is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife.
There is a difference also between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman is concerned about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy in body and in spirit; but she that is married, is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
I speak this for your own profit; not that I would entangle you, but that you may decorously and devotedly wait upon the Lord, without distraction.
But if any man thinks he would treat his virgin daughter amiss, should she pass the bloom of life, and it is necessary that it should be so, let him do as he pleases, he does not sin; let them (the suitor and the daughter) marry.
But he that stands firm in his purpose, having no necessity to give his daughter in marriage, but has liberty with respect to his own will, and has thus decided in his own heart, that he will keep his daughter a virgin, does well.
So then, even he that gives her in marriage, does well; but he that gives her not in marriage, does better.
The wife is bound as long as her husband lives; but if her husband die, she is free to be married to whom she will, only in the Lord.
But she is happier, in my judgment, if she remains as she is; and I think that I have, also, the Spirit of God.