NOW after he had finished all these sayings in the ears of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
And the servant of a certain centurion, who was very valuable to him, being seized with an illness, was ready to die.
But when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, entreating him that he would come and preserve the life of his servant.
And when they came to Jesus, they entreated him importunately, saying, He is a worthy man on whom thou wilt confer this favour:
for he loveth our nation, and hath himself built us a synagogue.
Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion dispatched towards him friends, saying to him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not deserving that thou shouldest enter beneath my roof.
Therefore neither did I think myself worthy to come unto thee, but speak in a word, and my servant will be cured.
For I also am a man under authority, and have under my command soldiers; and I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come hither, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
Then Jesus, on hearing these things, respected him highly, and turning to the multitude which was following him, he said, I tell you, I have not found such faith, even in Israel.
And they who were sent, on their return to the house, found the servant who was sick in perfect health.
And it came to pass the next day, that he went into a city called Nain; and a considerable number of his disciples went with him, and a vast multitude.
And as he drew near the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was carrying out, an only son to his mother, and she a widow; and a great concourse of the city was with her.
And when Jesus saw her, he was moved with compassion for her, and said unto her, Weep not.
And approaching, he touched the bier: and the bearers stood still; and he said, Young man, I say to thee, Arise.
And the dead man sat up, and began to speak: and he delivered him to his mother.
And fear fell on all, and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us, and that God hath looked down with mercy on his people.
And this account respecting him went abroad through all Judea, and all the region adjacent.
And his disciples informed John of all these things.
And John calling two certain persons of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that cometh, or are we to expect another?
Then the men came to him, saying, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that cometh, or are we to expect another?
And in that very hour he cured many of diseases and acute complaints, and evil spirits; and to many blind persons he gave sight.
And Jesus addressing them, said, Go, tell John what things ye have seen and heard: that the blind recover sight, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel preached unto them.
And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended at me.
Now when John’s messengers were departed, he began to speak to the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in delicate garments? Behold, they who indulge in soft raiment, and delicate food, are in king’s palaces.
But what went ye out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet.
For this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.
For I tell you, of those born from woman, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of heaven, is greater than he.
And all the people when they heard it, and the publicans, glorified God, being baptised with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and teachers of the law rejected the counsel of God towards themselves, not being baptised by him.
And the Lord said, To what then shall I compare the men of this generation? and to what are they like?
They are like to children sitting in the markets, and calling to each other, and saying, We have played the flute to you, and ye have not danced; we have raised the cry of mourning, and ye have not wept.
For John the Baptist came neither eating bread, nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil.
The Son of man is come eating and drinking, and ye say, A gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!
though wisdom hath been justified by her children.
Then one of the Pharisees invited him to eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee’s house, and sat down to table.
And, behold, a certain woman in the city, who was a notorious offender, when she knew that Jesus was sitting at table in the Pharisee’s house, brought an alabaster vessel of odoriferous balm,
and standing at his feet behind him, began to water his feet with her tears, and to wipe them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the perfumed balm.
And when the Pharisee who had invited him saw it, he said within himself, If this man were a prophet, he would know who and what kind of a woman this is that toucheth him; for she is a notorious sinner.
And Jesus addressing himself to him said, Simon, I have somewhat to say to thee. And he said, Master, speak freely.
A certain creditor had two debtors, the one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
But having nothing to pay, he forgave them both. Tell me, which of these, then, will love him most?
And Simon answering said, I suppose, he to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast judged rightly.
So turning to the woman, he said to Simon, Thou seest this woman? I came into thine house, even water for my feet thou gavest not; but she hath washed my feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.
One kiss hast thou not given me, but she from the time she hath come in, hath not ceased tenderly to kiss my feet.
My head with oil thou hast not anointed; but she hath anointed my feet with odoriferous balm.
For which cause, I tell thee, her many sins are forgiven, for she hath loved much: but to whom a little is forgiven, he loveth little.
And he said to her, Thy sins are forgiven.
And they who sat at table with him began to say in themselves, Who is this, who even forgives sins?
But he said unto the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.