And Jehovah spoke to Moses, Come, go up from here, you and the people whom you have caused to go up out from the land of Egypt, to the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, I will give it to your seed.
And I will send an angel before your face, and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite;
to a land flowing with milk and honey. For I will not go up among you, for you are a stiffnecked people, lest I consume you in the way.
And the people heard this evil word, and they mourned, and did not put any ornaments on themselves.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to the sons of Israel, You are a stiffnecked people; in one instant I will go up among you and I will consume you. And now lay off from you your ornaments, that I may know what I shall do to you.
And the sons of Israel pulled off their ornaments, from Mount Horeb.
And Moses took the tent and pitched it outside the camp, far off from the camp. And he called it the tabernacle of the congregation. And it happened that everyone seeking Jehovah went to the tabernacle of the congregation which  was outside the camp.
And it happened as Moses went to the tabernacle, the people all rose and stood, each one at the door of his tent. And they looked after Moses until he had gone into the tabernacle.
And it happened as Moses went into the tabernacle, the pillar of cloud would come down and stand at the door of the tabernacle. And He spoke with Moses.
And all the people would see the pillar of the cloud standing at the door of the tabernacle. And all the people rose and bowed themselves, each one at the door of his tent.
And Jehovah would speak to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. And he would return to the camp. And his attendant, Joshua the son of Nun, a young man did not leave the middle of the tabernacle.
And Moses said to Jehovah, Behold, You are saying to me, Cause this people to go up. And You, You have not told me whom You will send with me. And yet You have said, I know you by name, and also you have found favor in My eyes.
And now, if I have found favor in Your eyes, please make me see Your ways, and let me know You, so that I may find favor in Your eyes; and consider that this nation is Your people.
And He said, My presence will go with you , and I will give you rest.
And the said to Him, If Your presence does not go, do not cause us to go up from here.
And now by what can it be known that I and Your people have found favor in Your eyes? Is it not in Your going with us? And we are distinguished, I and Your people, from all the nations which are on the face of the earth?
And Jehovah said to Moses, This thing which you have spoken I will do. For you have found favor in My eyes, and I know you by name.
And he said, I pray, let me see Your glory.
And He said, I will cause all My goodness to pass before your face. And I will call out the name of Jehovah before your face. And I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy.
And he said, You are not able to see My face; for no man can see Me and live.
And Jehovah said, Behold, a place by Me! And you shall stand on a rock.
And as My glory is passing it will be that I will put you in a cleft of the rock; and I will cover My palm over you during My passing.
And I will remove My palm, and you shall see My back; but My face cannot be seen.