And having risen, the whole company of them led him to Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this man perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying himself to be Christ, a king.
And Pilate questioned him, saying, Are thou the king of the Jews? And having answered him, he said, Thou say.
And Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, I find nothing guilty in this man.
But they were emphatic, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, having begun from Galilee as far as here.
And when Pilate heard Galilee, he questioned if the man is a Galilean.
And when he perceived that he is from Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was himself also in Jerusalem in these days.
Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceedingly glad, for he was wanting of a considerable time to see him, because of hearing many things about him, and he hoped to see some sign happening by him.
And he interrogated him in considerable words, but he answered him nothing.
And the chief priests and the scholars had stood, vehemently accusing him.
But Herod having disdained him with his soldiers, and having mocked him, having arraying him in a bright robe, he sent him back to Pilate.
And both Pilate and Herod became friends with each other on the same day, for they were formerly being at enmity toward themselves.
And Pilate having called together the chief priests, and the rulers, and the people,
said to them, Ye brought this man to me as turning away the people. And behold, I, having examined him before you, found nothing guilty in this man of what ye accuse against him.
But not even Herod, for I sent you back to him, and lo, nothing having been done by him is worthy of death.
Therefore, having scourged I will release him.
Now he had need to release one man to them at every feast.
But they cried out all together, saying, Take away this man, and release to us Barabbas
(a man who was cast into prison because of a certain insurrection that occurred in the city, and for murder).
Again therefore Pilate called out wanting to release Jesus,
but they shouted, saying, Crucify, crucify him.
And he said to them a third time, For what evil did this man do? I have found nothing guilty of death in him. I will therefore, having scourged, release him.
But they were relentless with loud voices demanding him to be crucified. And their voices and those of the chief priests prevailed.
And Pilate decreed their request to happen.
And he released the man who had been cast into prison because of insurrection and murder, whom they asked for, but he delivered Jesus to their will.
And when they led him away, having taken hold of a certain Simon, a Cyrenian coming from the countryside, they laid the cross on him to bring behind Jesus.
And a great multitude of the people followed him, and also of women who bewailed and lamented him.
But having turning to them, Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, instead weep for yourselves and for your children.
Because, behold, the days are coming, during which they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the bellies that gave no birth, and the breasts that did not suckle.
Then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us, and to the hills, Cover us.
Because if they do these things in the green tree, what will happen in the dry?
And two other men, malefactors, were also led with him to be executed.
And when they came to the place called Skull, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one at the right hand and the other at the left.
And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they are doing. And dividing his garments, they cast a lot.
And the people had stood watching. And also the rulers with them sneered, saying, He saved others. He should save himself, if this is the Christ, the chosen of God.
And the soldiers also mocked him, approaching, and bringing him vinegar,
and saying, If thou are the king of the Jews, save thyself.
And there was also an inscription over him written in letters, in Greek and Latin and Hebrew: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And one of the malefactors who were hanged railed him, saying, If thou are the Christ, save thyself and us.
But the other man having answered, rebuking him, saying, Thou fear not even God, since thou are in the same condemnation?
And we indeed justly, for we receive worthy of what we did, but this man did nothing amiss.
And he said to Jesus, Remember me, Lord, when thou come into thy kingdom.
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to thee, today thou will be with me in the paradise.
And it was about the sixth hour, and darkness occurred over the whole land until the ninth hour.
And the sun was darkened, and the curtain of the temple was torn in the middle.
And Jesus, having sounded out in a great voice, said, Father, into thy hands I entrust my spirit. And having said these things, he expired.
And when the centurion saw that which happened, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this man was righteous.
And all the multitudes who came together to this scene, watching that which happened, turned back, beating their breasts.
And all his acquaintances, and the women who accompanied him from Galilee, had stood from afar, seeing these things.
And behold a man named Joseph, a council member, being a good and righteous man
(this man not having consented to their purpose and deed), was from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who also himself awaited the kingdom of God.
This man having gone to Pilate, requested the body of Jesus.
And having taken it down, he wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulcher cut in rock, of which no man was yet lain.
And the day was Preparation; sabbath was beginning.
And having followed closely, the women who were gathered to him out of Galilee, they saw the sepulcher, and how his body was laid.
And having returned, they prepared spices and ointments. And they indeed rested on the sabbath according to the commandment.