Pursue love; nevertheless be envious of the spiritual gifts,—and, rather, that ye may be prophesying.
For, he that speaketh with a tongue, not unto men, doth speak, but, unto God,—for, no one, understandeth, although, in spirit, he is speaking sacred secrets;
But, be that prophesieth, unto men, doth speak—edification, and exhortation, and comfort.
He that speaketh with a tongue, buildeth up, himself, whereas, he that prophesieth, buildeth up, an assembly.
Howbeit I wish you all to speak with tongues, but, rather, that ye may prophesy,—moreover, greater, is he that prophesieth, than he that speaketh with tongues,—unless indeed he translate, that, the assembly, may receive upbuilding.
But, now, brethren—if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit, you, except I speak, unto you, either by way of revelation, or knowledge, or prophesying, or teaching?
In like manner, the things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, if, a distinction in the sounds, they do not give, how shall it be known, what is being piped or harped?
For, if also, an uncertain sound, a trumpet, should give, who shall prepare himself for battle?
So, also, ye, through means of the tongue, except ye give intelligible discourse, how shall it be known what is being spoken? for ye will be speaking, to the air.
There may happen to be so many kinds of languages in the world, and, not one, unspoken:—
If, then, I do not know the meaning of the language, I shall be, unto him that is speaking, a foreigner, and, he that is speaking, shall be, in my case, a foreigner.
So, ye, also—since ye are, envious, of spirits, unto the upbuilding of the assembly, seek to be pre-eminent.
Wherefore, he that speaketh with a tongue, let him pray that he may translate;
[For], if I am praying in a tongue, my spirit, is praying, but, my mind, is unfruitful.
What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, but I will pray also with the mind,—I will strike the strings with the spirit, [but] I will strike the strings also with the mind.
Else, if thou be blessing in a spirit, he that filleth up the place of the ungifted person, how shall he say the Amen upon thy thanksgiving? since indeed, what thou art saying, he knoweth not;
For, thou, indeed, excellently art giving thanks, but, the other, is not being built up.
I give thanks unto God!—More than ye all, am I speaking with tongues;
But, in assembly, I desire to speak five words with my mind, that, others also, I may instruct, than myriads of words in a tongue.
Brethren! do not become children, in your understandings; but, in baseness, become babes, while, in your understandings, ye become, full-grown.
In the law, it is written—With strange tongues, and with lips of strangers, will I speak unto this people; and, not even so, will they hearken unto me,—saith the Lord.
So that, the tongues, are for a sign—not unto them that believe, but, unto them that believe not; whereas, prophesying, is not for them that believe not, but, for them that believe.
If, then, the whole assembly come together with one consent, and, all, are speaking with tongues,—and there come in persons unskilled or unbelieving, will they not say that ye are raving?
But, if, all, be prophesying,—and there come in one who is unbelieving or unskilled, he is convicted by all, he is searched by all, the secrets of his heart, become manifest,
And, so, falling down upon his face, he will do homage unto God, reporting that, in reality, God is, among you.
What, then, is it, brethren? Whensoever ye are coming together, each one, hath a psalm, hath a teaching, hath a revelation, hath a tongue, hath a translation:—let, all things, be done, unto building up.
If, with a tongue, one is speaking, let it be by two, or, at the most, three,—and by turns; and let, one, be translating;
But, if there be none to translate, let him keep silence in assembly, and, unto himself, be speaking, and, unto God!
Prophets, moreover, let two or three speak, and let, the others, judge.
If, however, unto another, a revelation be made, as he is sitting, let the first be silent;
For, one by one, ye can, all, be prophesying,—that, all, may learn, and, all, be encouraged.
And, spirits of prophets, unto prophets, do submit themselves;
For God is not [a God] of confusion, but, of peace:—as in all the assemblies of the saints.
As for the women, in the assemblies, let them be silent, for it is not permitted them to be speaking; but let them be in submission,—even as, the law, saith.
If, however, they are wishing to learn something, at home, their own husbands, let them question; for it is a shame for a woman to be speaking in assembly.
Or, from you, did the word of God come forth? Or, unto you alone, did it extend?
If anyone thinketh himself to be a prophet, or spiritually gifted, let him acknowledge the things which I am writing to you,—that they are, a commandment, of the Lord.
But, if anyone knoweth not, he is unknown!
So, then, my brethren,—be zealous to prophesy, and do not forbid, to be speaking with tongues;
But let, all things, with comeliness, and by arrangement, be done.