AND he shewed me a clear river of water of life, bright as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.
In the midst of the street of it, even on this side, and on that of the river, grew the tree of life, producing twelve crops of fruit, and ripening its fruit in succession every month; and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations.
And no accursed thing is there any more; and the throne of God and of the Lamb are in it, and his servants will pay divine worship to him.
And they shall see his face; and his name shall be on their foreheads.
And there shall be no night there, and they have no need of a lamp, or the light of the sun; because the Lord God illumines them: and they shall reign for ever and ever.
And he said to me, These words are faithful and true. And the Lord God of the holy prophets hath sent his angel to shew to his servants the things which must shortly come to pass.
Behold, I come quickly! blessed is he that observeth the words of the prophecy of this book.
And I John saw and heard these things. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel who shewed me these things.
And he said to me, See thou do it not; for I am a fellow-servant of thine, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of those who observe the words of this book: worship God.
And he said to me, Seal not up the words of the prophecy of this book; for the time is at hand.
He that is unjust, let him be unjust still; and he that is filthy, let him be filthy still; and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still; and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
And behold, I come quickly: and my reward is with me, to give to every man as his work shall be.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.
Blessed are they who keep his commandments, that they may have authority to approach unto the tree of life, and that they may enter in by the gates into the city.
But without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and every one who loveth and maketh a lie.
I Jesus have sent my angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright and morning star.
And the spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him who is athirst come: and whosoever is desirous, let him take of the water of life freely.
For I testify to every one who heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man add to these things, God will lay upon him the plagues that are written in this book:
and if any take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the book of life, and from the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.
He that testifieth these things saith, Verily, I come quickly. Amen. Yea come, Lord Jesus!
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen   THE END. \p