And all the company of the sons of Israel were gathered at Shiloh. And they established the tabernacle of the congregation there. And the land had been subdued before them.
And seven tribes were left among the sons of Israel who had not shared their inheritance.
And Joshua said to the sons of Israel, Until when will you fail to go in to possess the land which He, Jehovah the God of your fathers, has given to you?
Give from among you three men of a tribe, and I shall send them. And they shall go up and down through the land, and map it according to their inheritance; and then come to me.
And they shall divide it into seven parts. Judah shall stay within their border on the south, and the house of Joseph shall stay within their border on the north.
And you shall map the land in seven parts, and shall bring it to me here. And I shall cast a lot for you here before Jehovah our God.
For there shall be no portion to the Levites among you, for the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance. And Gad, and Reuben, and the half tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave to them.
And the men rose up and went. And Joshua commanded those who were going to map out the land, saying, Go, and walk up and down through the land, and map it, and return to me. And I will cast a lot for you here before Jehovah at Shiloh.
And the men passed through the land, and mapped it by cities into seven parts, in a book. And they came to Joshua, to the camp at Shiloh.
And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Jehovah. And Joshua apportioned the land to the sons of Israel there, according to their divisions.
And the lot of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin came up, according to their families, and the border of their lot went out between the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph.
And their border was at the north side from the Jordan, and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north, and went up through the hills westward; and its boundary line was at the wilderness of Beth-aven;
and the border went up from there to Luz, to the side of Luz (it is Bethel) southward, and the border went down to Atarothadar, near the hill that is on the south of the lower Beth-horon;
and the border was drawn and went around to the sea coast southward, from the hill which fronts on Beth-horon southward; and its boundary line was at the city of Baal it is Kirjath-jearim, a city of the sons of Judah; this is the west side.
And the south side was from the end of Kirjath-jearim; and the border went out westward, and went out to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah.
and the border went down to the end of the mountain that is before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the Valley of the Giants northward, and went down the valley of Hinnom to the side of the Jebusite on the south, and went down to En-rogel.
And it was drawn from the north and went out to En-shemesh, and went out toward Geliloth, which is across from the ascent of Adummim, and went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben,
and passed on to the side opposite to the Arabah northward, and went down to the Arabah.
And the border passed on to the side of Beth-hoglah northward, and the boundary line was at the north tongue of the Salt Sea, to the extreme south of the Jordan; this was the southern border.
And the Jordan borders it on the east side. This was the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, according to its borders all around, according to their families.
And the cities for the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, by their families, were Jericho, Beth-hoglah, and the valley of Keziz,
and Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel,
and Avvites, and Parah, and Ophrah,
and Chephar-haammonai, and Ophni and Gaba; twelve cities and their villages;
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
and Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,
and Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi, which is Jerusalem, Gibeath, and Kirjath; fourteen cities and their villages. This is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, by their families.