And, to the sons of Issachar, belonged, Tola and Push, Jashib and Shimron, four.
And, the sons of Tola, were Uzzi and Rephaiah and Jeriel and Jahmai and Ibsam and Shemuel, chiefs of their ancestral house, pertaining to Tola, heroes of valour, in their generations,—their number, in the days of David, twenty-two thousand and six hundred.
And, the sons of Uzzi, Izrahiah,—and, the sons of Izrahiah, Michael and Obadiah and Joel, Isshiah—five, chiefs, all of them;
and, with them by their generations, pertaining to their ancestral house, were bands of a host for war, thirty-six thousand,—for they had many wives and sons;
and, their brethren, of all the families of Issachar, heroes of great valour, were eighty-seven thousand, when they had, all, registered themselves.
Benjamin, Bela and Becher and Jediael, three.
And, the sons of Bela, Ezbon and Uzzi and Uzziel and Jerimoth and Iri, five, chiefs of the ancestral house, heroes of great valour,—who, when they had registered themselves, were twenty-two thousand and thirty-four,
And, the sons of Becher, Zemirah and Joash and Eliezer and Elioenai and Omri, and Jeremoth and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these, were sons of Becher.
And, when they had registered themselves by their generations, the chiefs of their ancestral house, the heroes of valour, were twenty thousand and two hundred.
And, the sons of Jediael, Bilhan,—and, the sons of Bilhan, Jeish and Benjamin and Ehud and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahah.
All these—sons of Jediael, by ancestral chiefs, heroes of great valour, were seventeen thousand and two hundred, ready to go forth as a host to war:—
Shuppim also and Huppim, sons of Ir, Hushim sons of Aher.
the sons of Naphtali, Jahziel and Guni, and Jezer and Shallum, sons of Bilhah.
The sons of Manasseh, Asriel, whom, [his wife] bare,—his concubine, the Syrian, bare Machir the father of Gilead;
and, Machir, took a wife pertaining to Huppim and Shuppim, and, the name of his sister, was Maacah, and, the name of the second, Zelophehad,—and, Zelophehad, had, daughters.
So then Maacah, wife of Machir, bare a son, and called his name Peresh, and, the name of his brother, was Sheresh,—and, his sons, were Ulam and Rakem;
and, the sons of Ulam, Bedan. These, were the sons of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh.
And, his sister, Hammolecheth, bare Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah.
And, the sons of Shemida, were Ahian and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
And, the sons of Ephraim, Shuthelah,—and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eleadah his son, and Tahath his son;
and Zabad his son and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead,—but the men of Gath who had been born in the land slew them, because they had come down to take away their cattle.
And Ephraim their father mourned many days,—and his brethren came to comfort him.
And he went in unto his wife, and she conceived, and bare a son,—and he called his name, Beriah, because, in misfortune, was she in his house.
And, his daughter, was Sheerah, who built Beth-horon the nether and the upper,—and Uzzen-sheerah.
And Rephah his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,—
Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,—
Non his son, Joshua his son.
And, their possessions, and their dwellings, were Bethel, and the villages thereof; and, eastward, Naaran, and, westward, Gezer, and the villages thereof, and Shechem, and the villages thereof,—as far as Aiyah, and the villages thereof;—
and, on the sides of the sons of Manasseh, Beth-shean and the villages thereof, Taanach and the villages thereof, Megiddo and the villages thereof, Dor and the villages thereof. In these, dwelt the sons of Joseph, son of Israel.
The sons of Asher, Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi and Beriah,—and Serah their sister.
And, the sons of Beriah, Heber, and Malchiel,—the same, was the father of Birzaith.
And, Heber, begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham,—and, Shua, their sister.
And, the sons of Japhlet, Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These, were the sons of Japhlet.
And, the sons of Shemer, Ahi, and Rohgah, Jahbah, and Aram.
And, the sons of Helem, his brother, Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh and Amal.
The sons of Zophah, Suah and Harnepher, and Shual and Beri, and Imrah,—
Bezer and Hod, and Shamma and Shilshah, and Ithran and Beera.
And, the sons of Jether, Jephunneh, and Pispa, and Ara.
And, the sons of Ulla, Arah, and Hanniel, and Rizia.
All these, were sons of Asher, chiefs of the ancestral house, choice men, heroes of great valour, chiefs of the leaders,—and, when they registered themselves, in host, for war, the number of the men, was twenty-six thousand.