Do any of you dare, when you have a matter against another, to go to law before the unjust, and not before the saints?
Do you not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
Do you not know that we shall judge angels, not to speak of this life?
If, then, you truly have judgments of the things of this life, set those who are least esteemed in the church to judge.
For I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise one among you, not even one in your midst who shall be able to judge between his brother?
But brother goes to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers.
Indeed then there is already a failure with you all, that you have lawsuits with yourselves. Why not instead be wronged? Why not instead be defrauded?
But you do wrong and defraud, and these things to brothers.
Do you not know that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived; neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor abusers, nor homosexuals,
nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
And such were some of you. But you are washed, but you are sanctified, but you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.
All things are lawful to me, but not all things profit. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any.
Meats for the belly and the belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. But the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord is for the body.
And God has both raised up the Lord, and also will raise us up by His own power.
Do you not know that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? Let it not be!
Or do you not know that he being joined to a harlot is one body? For He says, The two shall be one flesh.
But he being joined to the Lord is one spirit.
Flee fornication. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits fornication sins against his own body.
Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit in you, whom you have of God? And you are not your own,
for you are bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's.