NOW it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that the whole land should be registered.
(And this first enrolment was made by Cyrenius, afterwards governor of Syria)
And all went to be registered, every one to his own city.
Then Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; because he was of the house and family of David;
to be enregistered with Mary, the wife espoused to him, who was big with child.
And it came to pass, while they were there, that her time was up, that she should be delivered.
And she brought forth a son, her first-born, and wrapped him in swaddling-clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn.
And there were shepherds in that country abiding in the open air, and keeping guard over their flock by night.
And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them; and they were exceedingly affrighted.
And the angel said unto them, Be not affrighted: for, behold, I bring you tidings of great joy, which shall be for all the people.
Because this day there is born for you a Saviour, which is Messiah, the Lord, in the city of David.
And this shall be a sign for you; Ye shall find the babe in swaddling-clothes, lying in a manger.
And suddenly there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God, and saying,
Glory in the highest heavens to God! and upon earth, peace! towards men complacence.
And it came to pass, as the angels went from them into heaven, the men, the shepherds, said also to each other, Let us now go to Bethlehem, and see this thing which hath happened, which the Lord hath made known to us.
And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe, lying in the manger:
and when they saw it, they made a public report of the declaration delivered to them respecting this child.
And all who heard it, marvelled at the things told them by the shepherds.
But Mary carefully preserved all these declarations, laying them together in her heart, in order to apprehend their meaning.
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things which they had heard and seen, exactly as had been told them.
And when eight days were fulfilled for circumcising the child, his name also was called JESUS, the name imposed by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
And when the days of her purification were accomplished according to the law of Moses, they brought him to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord;
as it is written in the law of the Lord, Every male child, that openeth the womb, shall be called holy to the Lord;
and to offer a sacrifice, according to what is prescribed in the law of the Lord, A pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons.
And, behold, there was a man at Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.
And it had been divinely communicated to him by the Holy Spirit, that he should not see death, till he had seen the Lord’s Messiah.
And he came by the spirit into the temple; just as the parents were bringing in the child Jesus, that they might do according to what was the custom of the law concerning him;
and he took him into his arms, and blessed God, and said,
Now dismiss thy servant, Lord, according to thy word, in peace;
for my eyes have seen thy salvation,
which thou hast prepared before the face of all people.
A light to give revelation to the Gentiles, and glory to thy people Israel.
And Joseph and his mother were amazed at the things spoken concerning him.
And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall, and rising again of many in Israel; and for a marked object to be spoken against;
(so shall a dart pierce through thy own soul) that the reasonings of many hearts may be laid open,
And there was Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asser: she was far advanced in old age, having lived but seven years with a husband, from her virgin state:
though she was now a widow, of about eighty-four years, who departed not from the temple, attending the divine service, with fastings and prayers night and day:
and at the very same moment coming up, she also in turn confessed the Lord, and spake of him to all who were expecting redemption in Jerusalem.
And when they had finished all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, into their own city Nazareth.
And the child grew, and became endued with great powers of spirit, filled with wisdom; and the grace of God was upon him.
And his parents went annually to Jerusalem at the feast of the passover.
And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem, according to the custom of the feast.
And when they had concluded the days, as they were returning, the child Jesus remained at Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother knew it not:
but supposing him to be in the company, they went a day’s journey; and they sought him among their relations and acquaintances;
and not finding him, they returned to Jerusalem in search of him.
And it came to pass after three days, they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions.
And all who heard him, were in a transport of admiration, at his understanding and answers.
And when they saw him, they were struck with surprise; and his mother said to him, Son, why hast thou behaved to us in this manner? lo! thy father and I have been seeking thee in anguish of heart.
And he said unto them, Wherefore did ye seek me? did you not know, that I must be occupied with my Father’s affairs?
And they understood not the meaning of what he spake to them.
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was in subjection to them: though his mother preserved all these sayings in her heart.
And Jesus advanced in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and men.