Do not sharply rebuke an aged man, but exhort him as a father; the younger men, as brethren;
the elder women, as mothers; the younger, as sisters, with all purity.
Honor as widows those that are widows indeed.
But if any widow have children or grandchildren, let them learn first to show piety to their own family, and to requite their parents; for this is acceptable before God.
Now she that is a widow indeed, and left alone, hath set her hope on God, and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day;
but she that giveth herself up to pleasure is dead while she liveth.
These things also enjoin, that they may be blameless.
But if any one provideth not for his own, and especially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an unbeliever.
Let a widow be put on the list when not less than sixty years old, having been the wife of one husband,
well reported of for good works; if she have brought up children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints’ feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work.
But younger widows refuse; for when they become wanton against Christ, they desire to marry;
falling into condemnation, because they have cast off their first faith;
and withal they learn to be idle, going about from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also, and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not.
I desire therefore that the younger widows marry, bear children, guide the house, give no occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully.
For some have already turned aside after Satan.
If any man or woman that is a believer have widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church be burdened, that it may relieve those that are widows indeed.
Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor; especially they who labor in the word and in teaching.
For the Scripture saith, "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox while he is treading out the grain"; and, "The laborer is worthy of his wages."
Against an elder receive not an accusation without two or three witnesses.
Those that sin rebuke before all, that the rest also may fear.
I charge thee before God and Christ Jesus and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without prejudging, doing nothing with partiality.
Lay hands hastily on no one, neither share in other men’s sins. Keep thyself pure.
No longer drink water only, but use a little wine for thy stomach’s sake, and thy frequent infirmities.
Some men’s sins are openly manifest, going before them to judgment; and some men they follow after.
In like manner also the good works of some are openly manifest; and those that are otherwise cannot be hid.