The first narrative, indeed, made I, concerning all things, O Theophilus, which Jesus began both to do and teach,—
Until the day when, having given command unto the apostles, whom through Holy Spirit he had chosen, he was taken up;
Unto whom he also presented himself alive, after he had suffered, by many sure tokens, throughout forty days making himself visible unto them, and speaking the things concerning the kingdom of God.
And being in company with them he charged them, from Jerusalem, not to absent themselves, but—To abide around the promise of the Father which ye have heard of me,
Because, John, indeed, immersed with water; but, ye, in Holy Spirit shall be immersed,—after not many of these days.
They, therefore, having come together, began to question him, saying—Lord! art thou at this time duly establishing the kingdom unto Israel?
He said unto them—It is not yours to get to know times or seasons which the Father hath put in his own authority;
But ye shall receive power when the Holy Spirit cometh upon you, and ye shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and [in] all Judaea and Samaria and as far as the uttermost part of the land.
And having said these things, as they were beholding, he was lifted up, and a cloud caught him away from their eyes.
And, while they were looking steadfastly into heaven as he was going his way, then lo! two men had taken their stand beside them, in white garments,—
Who also said—Men of Galilee! why stand ye looking into heaven? This Jesus who hath been taken up from you into heaven, shall so come, in like manner as ye yourselves have gazed upon him going into heaven.
Then returned they into Jerusalem, from a mountain called Olivet, which is nigh unto Jerusalem a Sabbath day’s journey.
And, when they had entered, into the upper-story went they up, where remained behind—both Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the zealot, and Judas the son of James.
These all were giving constant attention with one accord unto the prayer, with [certain] women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.
And, in these days, Peter, standing up in the midst of the brethren, said,—and there was a multitude of names, of one accord, about a hundred and twenty,—
Brethren! It was needful for the Scripture to be fulfilled which the Holy Spirit spake beforehand through the mouth of David, concerning Judas,—who became guide unto them who apprehended Jesus;
For that he had come to be reckoned among us and obtained the lot of this ministry.—
This man therefore had possessed himself of a field out of the reward of unrighteousness,—and falling headlong burst asunder in the midst, and forth gushed all his bowels;
And it became known unto all them who were dwelling in Jerusalem, so that that field was called, in their language, Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.—
For it is written in the book of Psalms: Let his encampment become desolate, and let there be none to dwell therein! And—his overseership, let a different man take!
It is needful then that, of the men who companied with us during all the time in which the Lord Jesus came in and went out over us,
Beginning from the immersion by John until the day when he was taken up from us, that, a witness of his resurrection along with us, should one of these become.
And they appointed two,—Joseph, called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
And, praying, they said—Thou Lord! observer of the hearts of all men! shew forth whom thou hast chosen,—of these two, one;—
To take the place of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas went aside, to go his way unto his own place.
And they gave lots for them; and the lot fell upon Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.