When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses and for Israel his people, that the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt,
then Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,
and her two sons, of which the name of the one was Gershom (for he said, I have been an alien in a strange land),
and the name of the other was Eliezer (for the God of my father, my help, delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh.)
And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses in the wilderness, where he camped at the mount of God.
And he said to Moses, I, your father-in-law Jethro, have come to you, and your wife and her two sons with her.
And Moses went out to meet his father-in-law, and bowed down to him, and kissed him. And they asked each other of their welfare. And they came into the tent.
And Moses told his father-in-law all that the LORD had done to Pharaoh and the Egyptians for Israel's sake, all the travail that had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivered them.
And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom He had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.
And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh, and who has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
Now I know that Jehovah is greater than all gods; for in the thing in which they were proved against them.
And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God. And Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses' father-in-law before God.
And on the next day it happened that Moses sat to judge the people. And the people stood by Moses from the morning to the evening.
And when Moses' father-in-law saw all that he did to the people, he said, What is this thing which you do to the people? Why do you sit alone by yourself, and all the people stand by you from morning to evening?
And Moses said to his father-in-law, Because the people come to me to inquire of God.
When they have a matter, they come to me. And I judge between one and another, and I make known the statutes of God and His laws.
And Moses' father-in-law said to him, The thing that you do is not good.
You will surely wear away, both you and this people that is with you. For this thing is too heavy for you; you are not able to perform it alone.
Listen now to my voice; I will give you counsel, and God will be with you. You be for the people toward God, that you may bring the causes to God.
And you shall teach them ordinances and laws, and shall make them know the way in which they must walk, and the work that they must do.
And you shall look out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness. And place such over them to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
And let them judge the people at all times. And it shall be, every great matter they shall bring to you, but every small matter they shall judge. And make it easier for yourself, and they shall bear with you.
If you will do this thing, and God command you, then you shall be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their place in peace.
And Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law, and did all that he had said.
And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
And they judged the people at all times. The hard causes they brought to Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.
And Moses let his father-in-law depart. And he went his way into his own land.