This is the booke of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created Adam, in the likenes of God made he him,
Male and female created he them, and blessed them, and called their name Adam in the day that they were created.
Nowe Adam liued an hundred and thirtie yeeres, and begate a childe in his owne likenes after his image, and called his name Sheth.
And the dayes of Adam, after he had begotten Sheth, were eight hundreth yeeres, and he begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes that Adam liued, were nine hundreth and thirtie yeeres: and he died.
And Sheth liued an hundreth and fiue yeeres, and begate Enosh.
And Sheth liued, after he begate Enosh, eight hundreth and seuen yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes of Sheth were nine hundreth and twelue yeeres: and he died.
Also Enosh liued ninetie yeeres, and begate Kenan.
And Enosh liued, after he begate Kenan, eight hundreth and fifteene yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes of Enosh were nine hundreth and fiue yeeres: and he died
Likewise Kenan liued seuentie yeeres, and begate Mahalaleel.
And Kenan liued, after he begate Mahalaleel, eight hundreth and fourtie yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes of Kenan were nine hundreth and tenne yeeres: and he died.
Mahalaleel also liued sixtie and fiue yeres, and begate Iered.
Also Mahalaleel liued, after he begate Iered, eight hundreth and thirtie yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes of Mahalaleel were eight hundreth ninetie and fiue yeeres: and he died.
And Iered liued an hundreth sixtie and two yeeres, and begate Henoch.
Then Iered liued, after he begate Henoch, eight hundreth yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes of Iered were nine hundreth sixtie and two yeeres: and he died.
Also Henoch liued sixtie and fiue yeeres, and begate Methushelah.
And Henoch walked with God, after he begate Methushelah, three hundreth yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes of Henoch were three hundreth sixtie and fiue yeeres.
And Henoch walked with God, and he was no more seene: for God tooke him away.
Methushelah also liued an hundreth eightie and seuen yeeres, and begate Lamech.
And Methushelah liued, after he begate Lamech, seuen hundreth eightie and two yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So al the dayes of Methushelah were nine hundreth sixtie and nine yeeres: and he died.
Then Lamech liued an hundreth eightie and two yeeres, and begate a sonne,
And called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort vs concerning our worke and sorowe of our hands, as touching the earth, which the Lord hath cursed.
And Lamech liued, after he begate Noah, fiue hundreth ninetie and fiue yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
So all the dayes of Lamech were seuen hundreth seuentie and seuen yeeres: and he died.
And Noah was fiue hundreth yeere olde. And Noah begate Shem, Ham and Iapheth.