Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in judgment.
And a man shall be a hiding place from the wind, a shelter from the tempest, as streams of water in a dry place; like the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.
And the eyes of those that see shall not be dim, and the ears of those who hear shall listen.
And the heart of the rash shall discern knowledge; and the tongue of those that stutter shall hurry to speak clear things.
The fool shall no more be called noble, and a miser will not be said to be generous.
For the fool speaks foolishness, and his heart works iniquity, to do ungodliness; and to speak error against Jehovah, to make the hungry soul empty; and he causes the drink of the thirsty to fail.
And the weapons of the miser are evil; he devises wicked plots to destroy the poor with lying words, even the needy when he speaks right.
But the noble one devises noble things; and he shall rise by noble things.
O women who are at ease, rise up. Hear my voice; confident daughters, listen to my word.
You will shake for days on a year, confident women; for the vintage fails; the harvest will not come.
Tremble, women at ease; shake, confident women; strip and make yourselves bare, and bind on sackcloth on your loins;
be wailing over breasts, over pleasant fields, over the fruitful vine.
Thorns and briers shall spring up on the land of My people; even over all the houses of joy in the jubilant city,
because the palace is forsaken; the crowd of the city is forsaken; mound and tower are instead caves, until forever; a joy of wild asses; pasture for flocks;
until is poured out on us the Spirit from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field; and the fruitful field is reckoned as a forest.
Then justice shall dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness shall dwell in the fruitful field.
And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the service of righteousness shall be quietness and hope forever.
And My people shall live in a peaceful home, and in safe dwellings, and in secure resting places.
Though it hails when the forest is felled, and the city is laid low,
blessed are you who sow beside all waters, who send out the foot of the ox and the ass.