And as He was going out of the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, Teacher, Behold! What kind of stones and what kind of buildings!
And answering, Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? Not one stone shall be left upon a stone which shall not be thrown down.
And as He was sitting in the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew questioned Him privately:
Tell us when these things shall be? And what is the sign when all these things are about to be done?
And answering, Jesus began to say to them, Be careful that no one lead you astray.
For many will come in My name, saying, I AM! And they will lead many astray.
But when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be disturbed, for it must occur; but the end is not yet.
For nation will be raised against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there shall be earthquakes in many places. And there shall be famines and troubles. These things are the beginnings of anguishes.
But you yourselves be careful, for they will deliver you up to sanhedrins and to synagogues. You will be beaten, and you will be led before governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony to them.
And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations.
But whenever they lead you away, delivering you , do not be anxious beforehand, what you should say, nor meditate. But whatever may be given to you in that hour, speak that. For you are not those speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
And a brother will deliver up a brother to death, and a father the child. And children will rise up on parents and will put them to death.
And you will be hated by all on account of My name. But the one enduring to the end, that one will be kept safe.
But when you see "the abomination of desolation," the one spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not (he reading, let him understand), then let those in Judea flee into the mountains. Dan. 11:31; 12:11
And he on the housetop, let him not go down into the house, nor go in to take anything out of his house.
And the one in the field, let him not return to the things behind to take his garment.
But woe to those with babe in womb, and to those giving suck in those days!
And pray that your flight will not be in winter;
for there will be affliction in those days, such as has not been the like from the beginning of creation which God created until now, and never will be.
And if the Lord had not shortened the days, not any flesh would be saved; but because of the elect whom He chose, He has shortened the days.
And then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ! Or, Behold, there! You shall not believe.
For false christs and false prophets will be raised, and they will give signs and wonders in order to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.
But you be careful. Behold, I have foretold you all things.
But in those days, after that affliction, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give her light;
and the stars of the heaven will be falling, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
And then they will see the Son of man coming in clouds with much power and glory. Dan. 7:13
And then He will send His angels and will gather His elect from the four winds, from the end of earth to the end of heaven.
And from the fig tree learn the parable: When its branch becomes tender and puts out leaves, you know the summer is near.
So you also, when you see these things happening, know that it is near, at the doors.
Truly I say to you, Not at all will this generation pass away until all these things occur.
The heaven and the earth will pass away, but My words will not at all pass away.
But concerning that day and the hour, no one knows, not the angels, those in Heaven, nor the Son, except the Father.
Watch! Be wakeful, and pray. For you do not know when the time is.
As a man going away, leaving his house, and giving his slaves authority, and to each his work (and he commanded the doorkeeper, that he watch),
then you watch, for you do not know when the lord of the house is coming, at evening, or at midnight, or at cockcrowing, or early;
so that he may not come suddenly and find you sleeping.
And what I say to you, I say to all. Watch!