Who is this that cometh from Edom? In scarlet garments from Bozrah? This that is glorious in his apparel, Proud in the greatness of his strength? I that proclaim deliverance, And am mighty to save.
Wherefore is thine apparel red, And thy garments like those of one that treadeth the wine-vat?
I have trodden the wine-vat alone, And of the nations there was none with me. And I trod them in mine anger, And I trampled them in my fury, So that their life-blood was sprinkled upon my garments. And I have stained all my apparel.
For the day of vengeance was in my heart, And the year of my deliverance was come.
And I looked, and there was none to help, And I wondered, that there was none to uphold; Therefore my own arm wrought salvation for me, And my fury, it sustained me.
I trod down the nations in my anger; I crushed them in my fury, And spilled their blood upon the ground.
I will celebrate the mercy of Jehovah, the glory of Jehovah, According to all that he hath done for us; His great goodness to the house of Israel, Which he hath bestowed on it in his tender mercy, and his great kindness.
He said, Truly they are my people; Children that will not be false; So he was their deliverer.
In all their straits they had no distress; An angel of his presence saved them; In his love and compassion he redeemed them, He took them up and bore them all the days of old.
But they rebelled, and grieved his holy spirit; Then did he change himself into their enemy; He himself fought against them.
Then remembered his people the ancient days, the days of Moses, [saying,] Where is he that brought them up from the sea with the shepherd of his flock? Where is he that put his holy spirit within him?
That caused his glorious arm to accompany the right hand of Moses, That divided the water before them, To make to himself an everlasting name?
That led them through the deep, As a horse through a desert, without stumbling?
As the herd descendeth into the valley, The spirit of Jehovah led them to rest. So didst thou lead thy people, To make for thyself a glorious name.
Look down from heaven, and behold from thy holy and glorious habitation! Where is thy zeal and thy might? Thy pity and compassion for me, are they restrained?
Thou, surely, art our father; Abraham is ignorant of us, And Israel knoweth us not. Thou, O Jehovah, art our father; Our deliverer wast thou of old.
Why, O Jehovah, dost thou suffer us to wander from thy ways, And harden our hearts against thy fear? Return, for thy servants’ sake, The tribes of thine inheritance!
But a little while did thy holy people possess the land; Then our enemies trampled upon thy sanctuary.
It has been with us as if thou hadst never ruled over us, As if we had not been called by thy name.