And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first day of the month, that the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, because Tyre has said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken, the gate of the peoples. She has turned around to me. I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste,
therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Tyre, and will cause many nations to come up against thee, as the sea causes its waves to come up.
And they shall destroy the walls of Tyre, and break down her towers. I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her a bare rock.
She shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea, for I have spoken it, says the lord Jehovah. And she shall become a spoil to the nations,
and her daughters who are in the field shall be slain with the sword. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.
For thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring upon Tyre, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, king of kings, from the north, with horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and a company, and many people.
He shall kill thy daughters in the field with the sword. And he shall make forts against thee, and cast up a mound against thee, and raise up the buckler against thee.
And he shall set his battering engines against thy walls, and with his axes he shall break down thy towers.
Because of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover thee. Thy walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the wagons, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into thy gates, as men enter into a city in which a breach is made.
With the hoofs of his horses he shall tread down all thy streets. He shall kill thy people with the sword, and the pillars of thy strength shall go down to the ground.
And they shall make a spoil of thy riches, and make a prey of thy merchandise. And they shall break down thy walls, and destroy thy pleasant houses, and they shall lay thy stones and thy timber and thy dust in the midst of the waters.
And I will cause the noise of thy songs to cease, and the sound of thy harps shall no more be heard.
And I will make thee a bare rock; thou shall be a place for the spreading of nets. Thou shall be built no more, for I Jehovah have spoken it, says the lord Jehovah.
Thus says the lord Jehovah to Tyre: Shall not the isles shake at the sound of thy fall, when the wounded groan, when the slaughter is made in the midst of thee?
Then all the rulers of the sea shall come down from their thrones, and lie aside their robes, and strip off their broidered garments. They shall clothe themselves with trembling. They shall sit upon the ground, and shall tremble every moment, and be astonished at thee.
And they shall take up a lamentation over thee, and say to thee, How thou are destroyed, who were inhabited by seafaring men, the renowned city that was strong in the sea, she and her inhabitants, who caused their terror to be on all who dwelt there!
Now the isles shall tremble in the day of thy fall. Yea, the isles that are in the sea shall be dismayed at thy departure.
For thus says the lord Jehovah: When I shall make thee a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited, when I shall bring up the deep upon thee, and the great waters shall cover thee,
then I will bring thee down with those who descend into the pit, to the people of old time, and will make thee to dwell in the nether parts of the earth, in the places that are desolate of old, with those who go down to the pit, that thou not be inhabited. And I will set glory in the land of the living.
I will make thee a horror, and thou shall no more have any being. Though thou be sought for, yet thou shall never be found again, says the lord Jehovah.