And a man went from the house of Levi and took a daughter of Levi.
And the woman conceived and bore a son; and she saw him, that he was beautiful. And she concealed him three months.
And she was not able to hide him any longer, and she took a basket for him made of papyrus, and she daubed it with bitumen and with pitch. And she put the child in it, and placed it in the reeds by the lip of the Nile.
And his sister took her stand from a distance, to know what would be done to him.
And the daughter of Pharaoh went down to bathe at the Nile. And her slave women were walking on the side of the Nile. And she saw the basket in the midst of the reeds, and sent her slave-girl and took it.
And she opened it and saw the child, and, behold, a boy crying! And she had pity on him and said, This one is of the children of the Hebrews.
And his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call a woman for you, a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for you?
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the girl went and called the child's mother.
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this child away and nurse him for me, and I will give your wages. And the woman took the child and nursed him.
And the child grew, and she brought him to the daughter of Pharaoh. And he became a son to her, and she called his name Moses, and said, Because I drew him out of the water.
And it happened in those days, even Moses was grown, and he went out to his brothers and looked upon their burdens. And he saw an Egyptian man strike a Hebrew man of his brothers.
And he turned here and there and saw that no man was there. And he struck the Egyptian and hid him in the sand.
And he went out on the second day, and, behold, two men, Hebrews, were fighting. And he said to the guilty one, Why should you strike your neighbor?
And he said, Who appointed you as a man, a ruler and a judge over us? Are you saying to kill me, as you killed the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely the thing is known.
And Pharaoh heard this word, and he sought to kill Moses. And Moses fled from before Pharaoh, and lived in the land of Midian. And he sat down by the well.
And the priest of Midian had seven daughters. And they came and drew and filled the troughs to water their father's flocks.
And the shepherds came and drove them away; and Moses rose up and saved them, and watered their flocks.
And they came to their father Reuel; and he said, Why have you hurried to come today?
And they said, An Egyptian man rescued us from the hand of the shepherds, and he also drew for us and watered the flock.
And he said to his daughters, And where is he? Why then have you left the man? Call him, and let him eat bread.
And Moses consented to live with the man; and he gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses.
And she bore a son, and he called his name Gershom; for he said, I have become an alien in a foreign land.
And it happened during these many days that the king of Egypt died, and the sons of Israel groaned from the slavery. And they cried, and their cry went up to God from the slavery.
And God heard their groaning, and God remembered His covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
And God saw the sons of Israel, and God knew them .