And all the congregation of the sons of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin, after their journeys, according to the command of the Lord, and pitched in Rephidim. And there was no water for the people to drink.
And the people wrangled with Moses and said, Give us water that we may drink. And Moses said to them, Why do you wrangle with me? Why do you tempt the LORD?
And the people thirsted there for water. And the people murmured against Moses and said, Why is this, that You brought us up out of Egypt, to kill us and our sons and our cattle with thirst?
And Moses cried to the LORD, saying, What shall I do to this people? They are almost ready to stone me.
And the LORD said to Moses, Go on in front of the people, and take with you the elders of Israel. And take your rod with which you struck the river, in your hand, and go.
Behold, I will stand before you there upon the rock in Horeb. And you shall smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it, so that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel.
And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because of the wrangling of the sons of Israel, and because they tempted the LORD, saying, Is the LORD among us or not?
Then Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
And Moses said to Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out to fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand.
And Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek. And Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
And it happened when Moses held up his hand, Israel prevailed. And when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.
But Moses' hands became heavy. And they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it. And Aaron and Hur held up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side. And his hands were steady until the going of the sun.
And Joshua defeated Amalek and his people by the mouth of the sword.
And the LORD said to Moses, Write this, a memorial in a book, and set it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heavens.
And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it Jehovah My Banner.
And he said, A hand is on the throne of the LORD; war is to the LORD with Amalek from generation to generation.