Upon my watch-tower, will I stand, and will station myself upon the bulwark,—so will I keep outlook, to see—what he will speak with me, and what I shall reply, when I am reproved.
Then Yahweh answered me, and said, Write the vision, Yea, make it plain on tablets, that one may swiftly read it;
For yet is the vision for an appointed time, still, it presseth towards an end, and will not deceive,—if it tarry, wait thou for it, for it, surely cometh,—will not be too late.
Lo! as for the conceited one, crooked is his soul within him,- but, one who is righteous, by his faithfulness, shall live.
Moreover also, when wine betrayeth, a man, is arrogant, and findeth no rest,—because he hath enlarged, like hades, his desire, yea, he, is like death, and cannot be satisfied,—but hath gathered unto himself, all the nations, and assembled unto himself, all the peoples.
Shall not, these, all of them, against him, take up—a taunt, a mocking poem, enigmatical sentences—concerning him? And say—Alas! for him who maketh abundance in what is not his own, How long? that he should be burdening himself with heavy debts?
Will not thy creditors, suddenly rise up? and they who shall violently shake thee, all at once become active? Then shalt thou serve for booties, unto them!
Because, thou, hast plundered many nations, all the residue of the peoples, shall plunder thee,—for shedding Human blood, and doing violence to the earth, to the city, and to all who dwell therein.
Alas! for him who extorteth an extortion of wrong for his own house,—that he may set on high his nest, that he may be delivered from the grasp of calamity.
Thou hast counseled shame to thy house—making an end of many peoples, and endangering thine own life.
Surely, the stone out of the wall, will make outcry,—and, the tie out of the timber, will answer it.
Alas! for him who buildeth a city with deeds of blood,—and establisheth a town with perversity.
Lo! is it not from Yahweh of hosts—that peoples labour for fire, and, populations, for emptiness, weary themselves?
For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of Yahweh,—as, the waters, cover the sea.
Alas! for him who causeth his neighbour to drink, from the goblet of thy fury, and also, making him drunk,—to the end thou mayest gloat over their parts of shame.
Thou art sated with contempt, more than glory, drink, thou too, and expose thy person,—the cup of the right hand of Yahweh, shall come round unto thee, and ignominious filth be upon thy glory;
For, the violence [done] to Lebanon, shall cover thee, and wasting by wild beasts shall cause them terror,—for shedding Human blood, and doing violence to the earth, to the city, and to all who dwell therein.
What hath a carved image, profited, though the fashioner thereof, carved it? a molten image, and a teacher of falsehood,—though the fashioner of his fashioned thing trusted therein? that men should make Dumb Nonentities!
Alas! for him who saith to wood, Awake, bestir thee! to a silent stone, he, shall teach! Though he is overlaid with gold and silver, yet, no spirit whatsoever, is in him!
Howbeit, Yahweh, is in his holy temple,—Hush before him, all the earth.