Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou know not what a day may bring forth.
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth, a stranger, and not thine own lips.
A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty, but a fool's vexation is heavier than both.
Wrath is cruel, and anger is overwhelming, but who is able to stand before jealousy?
Better is open rebuke than love that is hidden.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are profuse.
The full soul loathes a honeycomb, but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.
As a bird that wanders from her nest, so is a man who wanders from his place.
Oil and perfume rejoice the heart, so too the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel.
Forsake not thine own friend, and thy father's friend. And go not to thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity. Better is a neighbor nearby than a brother far off.
My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me.
A prudent man sees the evil, and hides himself. The simple pass on, and suffer for it.
Take his garment who is surety for a stranger, and hold him in pledge who is surety for a strange woman.
He who blesses his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be considered a curse to him.
A continual dropping in a very rainy day, and a contentious woman are alike.
He who would restrain her restrains the wind, and his right hand encounters oil.
Iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend.
He who keeps the fig tree shall eat the fruit of it, and he who regards his master shall be honored.
As in water face is to face, so the heart of a man is to a man.
Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, and the eyes of man are never satisfied.
The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, and a man is tried by his praise.
Though thou should pound a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with crushed grain, yet his foolishness will not depart from him.
Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds.
For riches are not forever. And does the crown endure to all generations?
The hay is carried, and the tender grass shows itself, and the herbs of the mountains are gathered in.
The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the cost of the field.
And then will be goats' milk enough for thy food; for the food of thy household, and maintenance for thy maidens.