NOW the summary of the things spoken is this: we have such an high-priest, who hath taken his seat at the right hand of the throne of Majesty in the heavens;
a minister of the holies, and of the true tabernacle which the Lord hath pitched, and not man.
For every high-priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is necessary that this person also have somewhat to offer.
For if he were on earth, he would not be a priest, there being priests who offer gifts according to the law;
who perform the service after the figure and shadow of things in the heavens, as Moses was divinely instructed, when he was about to finish the tabernacle. “For see,” saith God, “that thou make all things according to the model shewed thee on the mount.”
But now hath Christ obtained a more excellent ministry, inasmuch as he is the mediator of a better covenant, which hath been established on better promises.
For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no place sought for a second.
For finding fault with them, he saith, “Behold, the days are coming, saith the Lord; and I will accomplish for the house of Israel and for the house of Judah a new covenant:
not according to that covenant which I made with their fathers, in the day when I laid hold upon their hand to lead them up out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I took no longer care of them, saith the Lord.
For this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord; giving my laws to their understanding, even on their hearts will I inscribe them: and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people.
And they shall no more teach every man his neighbour, and every one his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me from the mean man of them unto the great among them.
For I will be placable to their unrighteousnesses and their sins, and their iniquities I will never more remember.”
In calling it a new covenant, he hath made the first antiquated. Now what is antiquated and grown aged, is near evanescence.