And it came to pass, when the king dwelt in his house, and Jehovah had given him rest from all his enemies round about,
that the king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells within curtains.
And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thy heart, for Jehovah is with thee.
And it came to pass the same night, that the word of Jehovah came to Nathan, saying,
Go and tell my servant David, Thus says Jehovah, Shall thou build a house for me to dwell in?
For I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up the sons of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle.
In all places in which I have walked with all the sons of Israel, did I speak a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, Why have ye not built for me a house of cedar?
Now therefore thus thou shall say to my servant David, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepfold, from following the sheep, that thou should be prince over my people, over Israel.
And I have been with thee wherever thou went, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee. And I will make thee a great name, like the name of the great ones that are on the earth.
And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more. Neither shall the sons of iniquity afflict them any more, as at the first,
and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and I will cause thee to rest from all thine enemies. Moreover Jehovah tells thee that Jehovah will make thee a house.
When thy days are fulfilled, and thou shall sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, who shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.
He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the sons of men,
but my loving kindness shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul whom I put away before thee.
And thy house and thy kingdom shall be made sure forever before thee; thy throne shall be established forever.
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David.
Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah. And he said, Who am I, O lord Jehovah, and what is my house, that thou have brought me thus far?
And this was yet a small thing in thine eyes, O lord Jehovah, but thou have spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and this too according to the manner of men, O lord Jehovah!
And what can David say more to thee? For thou know thy servant, O lord Jehovah.
For thy word's sake, and according to thine own heart, thou have wrought all this greatness, to make thy servant know it.
Therefore thou are great, O Jehovah God, for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
And what one nation on the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, and to make him a name, and to do great things for you, and awesome things for thy land, before thy people whom thou redeemed to thee out of Egypt, from the nations and their gods?
And thou established to thyself thy people Israel to be a people to thee forever, and thou, Jehovah, became their God.
And now, O Jehovah God, the word that thou have spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, confirm it forever, and do as thou have spoken.
And let thy name be magnified forever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is God over Israel, and the house of thy servant David shall be established before thee.
For thou, O Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, have revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee a house. Therefore thy servant has found in his heart to pray this prayer to thee.
And now, O lord Jehovah, thou are God, and thy words are truth, and thou have promised this good thing to thy servant.
Now therefore let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue forever before thee, for thou, O lord Jehovah, have spoken it. And with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed forever.