My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands,
for they shall add length of days and long life and peace to you.
Mercy and truth will not forsake you; tie them on your neck; write them on the tablet of your heart;
and you shall find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
Trust in Jehovah with all your heart, and lean not to your own understanding;
In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct your paths.
Do not be wise in your own eyes; fear Jehovah and depart from evil.
Healing shall be to your navel and marrow to your bones.
Honor Jehovah with your substance, and with the firstfruits of all your increase,
and your barns shall be filled with plenty, and your presses shall burst with new wine.
My son, do not reject the chastening of Jehovah, and do not loathe His correction;
for whom Jehovah loves He corrects, even as a father corrects the son with whom he is pleased.
Happy is the man who finds wisdom, and the man who gets understanding.
For its profit is better than the gain from silver, and its increase more than fine gold;
she is more precious than rubies, and all the things you can desire are not to be compared with her.
Length of days is in her right hand; riches and honor in her left hand.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths peace.
She is a tree of life to the ones who lay hold on her; and happy are the ones holding her fast.
Jehovah founded the earth by wisdom; He founded the heavens by understanding;
the depths were broken up by His knowledge, and the clouds dropped down the dew.
My son, do not let them depart from your eyes; keep sound wisdom and judgment,
and they shall be life to your soul, and grace to your neck;
then you shall walk in your way safely, and your foot shall not stumble.
When you lie down, you shall not dread; yea, you shall lie down and your sleep shall be sweet.
Do not be afraid of sudden terror, nor of the destruction of the wicked when it comes.
For Jehovah shall be at your side, and He shall keep your foot from being caught.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do it .
Do not say to your neighbor, Go and come back again, or, Tomorrow I will give, when you have it beside you.
Do not plan evil against your neighbor, since he lives securely by you.
Do not strive with a man without cause, if he has done you no harm.
Do not envy the cruel man, and choose not among all his ways.
For the perverse one is hateful to Jehovah, but His intimacy is with the righteous.
The curse of Jehovah is in the house of the wicked, but He blesses the abode of the just.
Surely He scorns the scorners, but He gives grace to the lowly.
The wise inherit honor, but the foolish exalt shame.