Observe the month of the aviv, and keep the passover unto יהוה thy Elohim: for in the month of the aviv יהוה thy Elohim brought thee forth out of Egypt by night.
Thou shalt therefore sacrifice the passover unto יהוה thy Elohim, of the flock and the herd, in the place which יהוה shall choose to place his name there.
Thou shalt eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shalt thou eat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of affliction; for thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that thou mayest remember the day when thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of thy life.
And there shall be no leavened bread seen with thee in all thy coast seven days; neither shall there any thing of the flesh, which thou sacrificedst the first day at even, remain all night until the morning.
Thou mayest not sacrifice the passover within any of thy gates, which יהוה thy Elohim giveth thee:
But at the place which יהוה thy Elohim shall choose to place his name in, there thou shalt sacrifice the passover at even, at the going down of the sun, at the season that thou camest forth out of Egypt.
And thou shalt roast and eat it in the place which יהוה thy Elohim shall choose: and thou shalt turn in the morning, and go unto thy tents.
Six days thou shalt eat unleavened bread: and on the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to יהוה thy Elohim: thou shalt do no work therein.
Seven weeks shalt thou number unto thee: begin to number the seven weeks from such time as thou beginnest to put the sickle to the corn.
And thou shalt keep the feast of weeks unto יהוה thy Elohim with a tribute of a freewill offering of thine hand, which thou shalt give unto יהוה thy Elohim, according as יהוה thy Elohim hath blessed thee:
And thou shalt rejoice before יהוה thy Elohim, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite that is within thy gates, and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are among you, in the place which יהוה thy Elohim hath chosen to place his name there.
And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt: and thou shalt observe and do these statutes.
Thou shalt observe the feast of tabernacles seven days, after that thou hast gathered in thy corn and thy wine:
And thou shalt rejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite, the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are within thy gates.
Seven days shalt thou keep a solemn feast unto יהוה thy Elohim in the place which יהוה shall choose: because יהוה thy Elohim shall bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the works of thine hands, therefore thou shalt surely rejoice.
Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before יהוה thy Elohim in the place which he shall choose; in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles: and they shall not appear before יהוה empty:
Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of יהוה thy Elohim which he hath given thee.
Judges and officers shalt thou make thee in all thy gates, which יהוה thy Elohim giveth thee, throughout thy tribes: and they shall judge the people with just judgment.
Thou shalt not wrest judgment; thou shalt not respect persons, neither take a gift: for a gift doth blind the eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous.
That which is altogether just shalt thou follow, that thou mayest live, and inherit the land which יהוה thy Elohim giveth thee.
Thou shalt not plant thee a grove of any trees near unto the altar of יהוה thy Elohim, which thou shalt make thee.
Neither shalt thou set thee up any image; which יהוה thy Elohim hateth.