And again He entered into the synagogue. And there was a man who had a withering of the hand.
And they watched Him, whether He will heal him on the sabbaths, that they might accuse Him.
And He said to the man who had a withering of the hand, Rise up into the middle.
And He said to them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbaths, or to do evil? To save a soul, or to kill? But they were silent.
And having looked around on them with anger, being greatly grieved over the hardness of their heart, He said to the man, Stretch out your hand! And he stretched out, and his hand was restored sound as the other.
And going out, the Pharisees at once took counsel with the Herodians against Him, how they might destroy Him.
And Jesus withdrew to the sea with His disciples; and a great multitude from Galilee and from Judea followed Him,
also some from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and beyond the Jordan, also those around Tyre and Sidon. A great multitude came to Him, hearing how much He was doing.
And He spoke to His disciples that a small boat should stay near to Him because of the crowd, that they might not press upon Him.
For He healed many, so that they fell on Him, that they might touch Him, as many as had plagues.
And when the unclean spirits saw Him, they fell down before Him, and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God!
And he warned them very much that they should not reveal Him.
And He went up into the mountain, and He called near whom He desired. And they went to Him.
And He made disciples of twelve, that they might be with Him; and that He might send them to proclaim,
and to have authority to heal diseases, and to cast out the demons.
And He put on Simon the name Peter.
And on James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, He put on them the names Boanerges, which is, Sons of Thunder.
Also He appointed Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alpheus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him. And He came into a house.
And again a crowd came together, so as they were not able even to eat bread.
And hearing, those with Him went out to take hold of Him; for they said, He is out of wits.
And coming down from Jerusalem, the scribes said, He has Beelzebub; and he casts out demons by the ruler of the demons.
And calling them near, He spoke to them in parables, saying , How can Satan cast out Satan?
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
And if a house is divided against itself, that house is not able to stand.
And if Satan rises upon himself, and has been divided, he is not able to stand, but he has an end.
No one is able in any way to plunder the goods of the strong one, entering into his house, unless he first tie up the strong one; and then he will plunder his house.
Truly I say to you, All the sins will be forgiven to the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they have blasphemed;
but whoever commits blasphemy against the Holy Spirit has no forgiveness to eternity, but is liable to eternal judgment
(because they said, He has an unclean spirit).
Then His mother and brothers came. And standing outside, they sent to Him, calling Him.
And a crowd sat around Him. And they said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers seek You outside.
And He answered them, saying, Who is My mother or My brothers?
And having looked around on those sitting around Him in a circle, He said, Behold, My mother and My brothers!
For whoever does the will of God, this one is My brother, and My sister, and My mother.