And the heavens and the earth were finished, and all their host.
And on the seventh day God completed His work which He had made And He rested on the seventh day from all His work which He had made.
And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because He rested from all His work on it, which God had created to make.
These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created in the day that Jehovah God was making earth and heavens.
and every shrub of the field was not yet on the earth, and every plant of the field had not yet sprung up; for Jehovah God had not sent rain on the earth, and there was no man to till the ground.
And mist went up from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground.
And Jehovah God formed the man out of dust from the ground, and blew into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
And Jehovah God planted a garden in Eden to the east; and He put the man whom He had formed there.
And out of the ground Jehovah God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food. The Tree of Life was also in the middle of the garden; also the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil.
And a river went out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it was divided and became four heads.
The name of the first was Pishon; it is the one surrounding all the land of Havilah where gold is ;
the gold of that land is good; there is bdellium gum resin, and the onyx stone.
And the name of the second river is Gihon. It is the one surrounding all the land of Cush.
And the name of the third river is Tigris; it is the one going east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.
And Jehovah God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden, to work it and to keep it.
And Jehovah God commanded the man, saying, You may freely eat of every tree in the garden;
but of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil you may not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die.
And Jehovah God said, It is not good, the man being alone. I will make a helper suited to him.
And Jehovah God formed every animal of the field, and every bird of the heavens out of the ground. And He brought them to the man, to see what he would call it. And all which the man might call it, each living soul, that  was its name.
And the man called names to all the cattle, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every animal of the field. But no helper suited to him was found for a man.
And Jehovah God caused a deep sleep to fall on the man, and he slept. And He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh underneath.
And Jehovah God formed the rib which He had taken from the man into a woman, and brought her to the man.
And the man said, This now at last is bone from my bones, and flesh from my flesh. For this shall be called Woman, because this has been taken out of man.
Therefore, a man shall leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave to his wife and they shall become one flesh.
And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed.