And you shall make the altar of acacia timbers; five cubits long and five cubits wide. The altar shall be square, and its height three cubits.
And you shall make its horns on its four corners. Its horns shall be a part of itself. And you shall overlay it with bronze.
And you shall make its pots to remove its ashes, and its shovels and its sacrificial bowls, and its flesh forks, and its pans. You shall make all its vessels to be bronze.
And you shall make a grating for it, a network of bronze. And you shall make four rings of bronze on the four ends of the net.
And you shall put it under the ledge of the altar from beneath. And the net shall be as far as half of the altar.
And you shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia timbers. And you shall overlay them with bronze.
And its poles shall be brought into the rings. And the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar, for carrying it.
You shall make it hollow with boards; as He showed you in the mountain, so they shall make it .
And you shall make the court of the tabernacle; for the south side southward, hangings for the court of twined linen, a hundred by the cubit in length, for the one side.
And its pillars shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty in bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their bands of silver.
And so for the north side in length, hangings a hundred in length; and its pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty in bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their bands of silver.
And the width of the west side of the court shall have fifty cubits of hangings; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
And the width of the court for the east side eastward fifty cubits;
and the hangings to the side fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
And to the hangings for the second side, fifteen; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
And for the gate of the court, a screen of twenty cubits, blue and purple and crimson, and twined linen. the work of an sockets four.
All the pillars of the court round about shall be banded with silver, their hooks silver, and their sockets bronze.
The length of the court shall be a hundred by the cubit, and the width fifty by fifty, and the height five cubits, twined linen; and heir sockets bronze.
As to all the vessels of the tabernacle, in all its service, and all its pins, and all the pins of the court, bronze.
And you shall command the sons of Israel, and let them bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to set up lamps perpetually.
In the tabernacle of the congregation from outside the veil which is by the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall arrange them from evening until morning before Jehovah; a never ending statute for their generations, from the sons of Israel.