For we know that, if our earthly tent-habitation be destroyed, we have a building provided by God, a house not made with hands, everlasting, in the heavens.
For while in this we groan, longing to be clothed upon with our habitation which is from heaven;
since, indeed, when we have put off our present garment, we shall not be found naked.
For we who are in this tent groan, being burdened; inasmuch as we do not desire to be unclothed, but to be clothed upon, that mortality may be swallowed up by life.
Now he that hath prepared us for this very thing is God; who also gave to us the Spirit as the pledge.
We have courage, therefore, always, and know that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord;
for we walk by faith, not by sight; but we have courage,
and are well pleased rather to be absent from the body, and to be at home with the Lord.
Wherefore we also strive that, whether at home or absent, we may be approved by him.
For we must all be made manifest before the judgment-seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in his body, according to what he did, whether good or bad.
Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men; but to God we have been made manifest, and I hope have been made manifest in your consciences also.
For we are not again commending ourselves to you, but giving you occasion to glory on our behalf; that ye may have somewhat to answer those who glory in outward appearance, and not in heart.
For whether we were beside ourselves, it was for God; or whether we are in our sound mind, it is for you.
For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judged, that if one died for all, then all died;
and he died for all, that they who live should no longer live to themselves, but to him who died for their sakes, and rose again.
So that we henceforth know no one according to the flesh; and if we have even known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we no longer know him.
Therefore, if any one is in Christ, he is a new creation; the old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new.
And all things are from God, who reconciled us to himself by Christ, and gave to us the ministry of reconciliation;
seeing that in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not reckoning to them their trespasses, and having committed to us the word of reconciliation.
We then are ambassadors for Christ; as though God were exhorting you by us, in behalf of Christ we entreat you, Be reconciled to God.
Him, who knew not sin, he made sin for us, that we might become God’s righteousness in him.