Therefore of Christ having suffered in flesh for us, arm ye yourselves also with the same mentality, because he who has suffered in flesh has ceased from sin,
in order to live the remaining time in flesh, no longer by lusts of men, but by the will of God.
For enough time of life has past for you to accomplish the will of the Gentiles, having gone in debaucheries, lusts, excesses of wine, revelings, drinking parties, and lawless idolatries.
During which they think it strange of you not running together into the same pouring out of debauchery, while they slander.
Men who will give back an accounting to him who fares readily to judge the living and the dead.
For good news was preached even to the dead for this, so that they might indeed be judged according to men in flesh, but live according to God in spirit.
But the end of all things has approached. Therefore be serious, and be sober for the prayers.
And above all having fervent love for yourselves, because love will cover a multitude of sins,
stranger-loving toward each other without complaints.
As each has received a gift, serving it for yourselves, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
If any man speaks, as oracles of God. If any man serves, as of ability as God supplies. So that God may be glorified in all things through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the dominion into the ages of the ages. Truly.
Beloved, ye should not be surprised at the fieriness in you, which occurs for a trial to you, like a strange thing happening to you.
But rejoice in so far as ye are partakers in the sufferings of the Christ, so that also at the revealing of his glory ye may rejoice, having exceeding joy.
Blessed are ye if ye are reviled for the name of Christ, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. From them he is indeed blasphemed, but from you he is glorified.
For let not any man of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a busybody.
But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in this regard.
Because the time to begin judgment is from the house of God, and if first from us, what is the end of those who disobey the good news of God?
And if the righteous man is scarcely saved, where will the irreverent and sinful man appear?
Therefore also let those who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls as to a faithful Creator by well-doing.