And Moses was feeding the flock of his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock behind the wilderness and came to the mountain of God, to Horeb.
And the Angel of Jehovah appeared to him in a flame of fire from the middle of a thorn bush. And he looked, and behold, the thorn bush was burning with fire, and the thorn bush was not burned up!
And Moses said, I will turn aside now and see this great sight, why the thorn bush is not burned up.
And Jehovah saw that he turned aside to see, and God called to him from the midst of the thorn bush, and said, Moses! Moses! And he said, Behold me.
And He said, Do not come near here pull off your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.
And He said, I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he feared to look upon God.
And Jehovah said, I have certainly seen the affliction of My people who are in Egypt, and I have heard their cry from before their slave-drivers; for I know his sorrows.
And I have come down to deliver them from the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up from that land to a good and broad land, to a land flowing with milk and honey; to the place of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Jebusite.
And now, behold, the cry of the sons of Israel has come to Me, and I also have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians are oppressing them.
And now, come, and I will send you to Pharaoh, and you bring My people out, the sons of Israel out of Egypt.
And Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring out the sons of Israel from Egypt?
And He said, I will be with you, and this shall be the sign for you that I have sent you, when you bring out the people from Egypt: You shall serve God on this mountain.
And Moses said to God, Behold, I shall come to the sons of Israel and say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you; and they will say to me, What is His name? What shall I say to them?
And God said to Moses, I AM THAT I AM; and He said, you shall say this to the sons of Israel, I AM has sent me to you.
And God said to Moses again, You shall say this to the sons of Israel, Jehovah the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is My name forever, and this is My memorial from generation to generation.
Go, and gather the elders of Israel and say to them, Jehovah the God of your fathers has appeared to me, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, I have surely visited you and have seen what is done to you in Egypt.
And I have said, I will bring you up from the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite; to a land flowing with milk and honey.
And they shall listen to your voice; and you shall come in, you and the elders of Israel to the king of Egypt. And you shall say to him, Jehovah the God of the Hebrews has met us; and now, please let us go for a journey of three days into the wilderness, and let us sacrifice to Jehovah our God.
And I know that the king of Egypt will not permit you to go, not even by a strong hand.
And I will stretch out My hand and strike Egypt with all My wonders, which I will do in its midst, and afterward he will send you away.
And I will give this people favor in the eyes of Egypt; and it will come to pass, when you go, you will not go empty.
And each woman shall ask of her neighbor, and from the stranger in her house, articles of silver, and articles of gold, and garments; and you shall put these on your sons and on your daughters And you shall plunder Egypt.