LIKEWISE, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, even if some obey not the word, by their wives’ conduct without the word, they may be won over;
being eye-witnesses of your chaste behaviour with timidity.
Whose adorning let it not be that exterior one of braided locks, and golden trimmings, and dresses put on with nicety;
but let it be the hidden man of the heart, with that incorruptible ornament of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God highly valuable.
For so in times of old the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands;
as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose children ye are, if ye do well, and are not affrighted with any terror.
Ye husbands, in like manner dwell with them discreetly, putting respect on the dear woman as being the weaker vessel, and as co-heirs of the grace of life, so that your prayers may meet no interruption.
Finally, be all like-minded, sympathizing, loving fraternally, compassionate, friendly hearted,
not returning evil for evil, or railing for railing; but, contrariwise, wishing men every blessing; knowing that hereunto ye have been called, that ye should inherit the divine benediction.
“For he that would love life, and see good days, let him restrain his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking guile.
Let him depart from every wicked thing, and do good; let him seek peace, and pursue it.”
For the eyes of the Lord are upon the just, and his ears open to their prayers: but the face of the Lord is against those who practise wicked things.
And who will do you harm if ye be imitators of him that is good?
But if ye should even suffer for righteousness, blessed are ye: be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled,
but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be always ready with your reply to every man who demands a reason respecting the hope which is in you with meekness and fear:
keeping a good conscience; that whereas they malign you, as evil doers, they may be confounded who take pleasure in ridiculing your good conduct in Christ.
For it is better (if it be God’s will) to suffer as well doers than as evil doers.
For Christ also suffered once for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, put to death indeed in the flesh, but raised to life by the Spirit:
by which also he went and preached to those spirits imprisoned;
who in time of old were disobedient, when the long suffering of God in the days of Noe waited, while the ark was preparing, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were preserved through the water.
The antitype to which baptism now saveth us (not the mere removal of filth from the flesh, but the engagement of a good conscience to God), by the resurrection of Jesus Christ:
who is at the right hand of God, gone into heaven, angels and dominations and powers being put in subjection under him.