And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel, that they put out of the camp every leper, and every man who has an issue, and whoever is unclean about life.
Ye shall put out both male and female. Ye shall put them outside the camp, that they not defile their camp, in the midst of which I dwell.
And the sons of Israel did so, and put them outside the camp. As Jehovah spoke to Moses, so did the sons of Israel.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, When a man or woman shall commit any sin that men commit, so as to trespass against Jehovah, and that soul shall be guilty,
then he shall confess his sin which he has done. And he shall make restitution for his guilt in full, and add to it the fifth part of it, and give it to him in respect of whom he has been guilty.
But if the man has no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the guilt, the restitution for guilt which is made to Jehovah shall be the priest's, besides the ram of the atonement, by which atonement shall be made for him.
And every heave offering of all the holy things of the sons of Israel, which they present to the priest, shall be his.
And every man's hallowed things shall be his. Whatever any man gives the priest, it shall be his.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, If any man's wife goes aside, and commits a trespass against him,
and a man lies with her carnally, and it be hid from the eyes of her husband, and be kept close, and she be defiled, and there be no witness against her, and she is not taken in the act,
and the spirit of jealousy comes upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be defiled, or if the spirit of jealousy comes upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she is not defiled,
then the man shall bring his wife to the priest, and shall bring her oblation for her, the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal. He shall pour no oil upon it, nor put frankincense on it, for it is a meal offering of jealousy, a meal offering of memorial, bringing iniquity to remembrance.
And the priest shall bring her near, and set her before Jehovah.
And the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel. And the priest shall take of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle, and put it into the water.
And the priest shall set the woman before Jehovah, and let the hair of the woman's head go loose, and put the meal offering of memorial in her hands, which is the meal offering of jealousy. And the priest shall have in his hand the water of bitterness that causes the curse.
And the priest shall cause her to swear, and shall say to the woman, If no man has lain with thee, and if thou have not gone aside to uncleanness, being under thy husband, be thou free from this water of bitterness that causes the curse.
But if thou have gone aside, being under thy husband, and if thou are defiled, and some man has lain with thee besides thy husband,
then the priest shall cause the woman to swear with the oath of cursing, and the priest shall say to the woman, Jehovah make thee a curse and an oath among thy people when Jehovah makes thy thigh to fall away, and thy body to swell.
And this water that causes the curse shall go into thy bowels, and make thy body to swell, and thy thigh to fall away. And the woman shall say, Truly, Truly.
And the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall blot them out into the water of bitterness.
And he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that causes the curse. And the water that causes the curse shall enter into her bitter.
And the priest shall take the meal offering of jealousy out of the woman's hand, and shall wave the meal offering before Jehovah, and bring it to the altar.
And the priest shall take a handful of the meal offering, as the memorial of it, and burn it upon the altar, and afterward shall make the woman drink the water.
And when he has made her drink the water, then it shall come to pass, if she is defiled, and has committed a trespass against her husband, that the water that causes the curse shall enter into her bitter, and her body shall swell, and her thigh shall fall away. And the woman shall be a curse among her people.
And if the woman is not defiled, but is clean, then she shall be free, and shall conceive seed.
This is the law of jealousy, when a wife, being under her husband, goes aside, and is defiled,
or when the spirit of jealousy comes upon a man, and he is jealous of his wife. Then he shall set the woman before Jehovah, and the priest shall execute upon her all this law.
And the man shall be free from iniquity, and that woman shall bear her iniquity.