Neither he that hath been mutilated by crushing, nor he that hath had his privy member cut off, shall enter into the convocation of Yahweh.
A bastard shall not enter into the convocation of Yahweh,—even to the tenth generation, shall none of his enter into the convocation of Yahweh.
Neither an Ammonite nor a Moabite shall enter into the convocation of Yahweh,—even to the tenth generation, shall none that belong to them enter into the convocation of Yahweh, unto times age-abiding:
because they met you not with bread and water, in the way, when ye came forth out of Egypt,—but hired against thee Balaam son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse thee.
Nevertheless, Yahweh thy God consented not to hearken unto Balaam, but Yahweh thy God turned, for thee, the curse into a blessing,—because Yahweh thy God loved thee.
Thou shalt not seek their peace nor their welfare,—all thy days, unto times age-abiding.
Thou shalt not abhor an Edomite, for thy brother, he is,—thou shalt not abhor an Egyptian, for a sojourner, becamest thou in his land;
the sons who are born to them, of the third generation, may enter unto them in the convocation of Yahweh.
When thou goest forth into camp against thine enemies, then shalt thou beware of everything foul.
When there is in thy midst a man who is not clean through a mischance of the night, then shall he go forth unto the outside of the camp, he shall not come into the midst of the camp;
but it shall be, when the evening cometh on, he shall bathe himself in water,—and at the going in of the sun, he shall come into the midst of the camp.
And a place aside, shalt thou have, without the camp,—whither thou canst go forth abroad;
and a blade, shalt thou have upon thy staff,—so shall it be, that when thou wouldest sit down outside, thou shalt dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which hath passed from thee:
for, Yahweh thy God, walketh to and fro in the midst of thy camp, to rescue thee, and to deliver up thine enemies before thee, so shall thy camps be holy,—and he shall see in thee no shameful thing, that he should turn away from following thee.
Thou shalt not deliver up a slave unto his lord,—one who maketh his escape unto thee, from his lord:
with thee, shall he remain in thy midst, in the place which he shall choose in any of thy gates where it seemeth good to him,—thou shalt not oppress him.
There shall be no female devotee of the daughters of Israel,—neither shall there be, a male devotee, of the sons of Israel.
Thou shalt not bring the wages of an unchaste woman, or the hire of a dog, into the house of Yahweh thy God for any vow,—for, an abomination unto Yahweh thy God, are they both.
Thou shalt not lend on interest to thy brother, interest of silver, interest of food,—interest of any thing that can be lent on interest:
to a foreigner, thou mayest lend on interest, but to thy brother, shalt thou not lend on interest,—that Yahweh thy God may bless thee, in everything where-unto thou puttest thy hand, upon the land which thou art entering to possess.
When thou shalt vow a vow unto Yahweh thy God, thou shalt not delay to make it good,—for Yahweh thy God would, require, it of thee, and it should be in thee sin.
But, if thou refrain from vowing, it shall not be in thee sin.
That which goeth forth out of thy lips, thou must observe and do,—according as thou didst vow unto Yahweh thy God the free-will, offering of which thou didst speak with thy mouth.
When thou enterest into the vineyard of thy neighbour, then mayest thou eat grapes at thy pleasure to thy fill,-but into thy vessel, shalt thou put none.
When thou enterest the standing corn of thy neighbour, thou mayest pluck off ears with thy hand,—but a sickle, shalt thou not wield against the standing corn of thy neighbour.