And king Solomon loved many foreign women, even the daughter of Pharaoh, Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, Hittites;
of the nations which Jehovah said to the sons of Israel, You shall not go in to them, and they shall not go in to you; surely they shall turn aside your heart after their gods; Solomon clung to these in love.
And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines; and his wives turned away his heart.
And it happened, at the time Solomon was old, his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with Jehovah his God, like the heart of his father David.
And Solomon went after Ashtoreth, goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom, the abomination of the Ammonites;
and Solomon did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and did not go fully after Jehovah like his father David.
Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab, in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the sons of Ammon;
and so he did for all his foreign wives, who burnt incense and sacrificed to their gods.
And Jehovah was angry with Solomon, for his heart had bent away from Jehovah, God of Israel who had appeared to him twice,
and had given a charge to him concerning this thing, not to go after other gods; and he did not keep that which Jehovah commanded.
And Jehovah said to Solomon, Because this has been done by you, and you have not kept My covenant and My statutes that I charged on you, I shall surely tear the kingdom from you and shall give it to your servant.
Only, I will not do it in your days, for the sake of your father David; I shall tear it out of your son's hand.
Only I will not tear away all the kingdom; I will give one tribe to your son for my servant David's sake, and for the sake of Jerusalem that I have chosen.
And it happened, Jehovah raised an adversary to Solomon, Hadad the Edomite; he was of the seed of the king in Edom.
And it happened when David was in Edom, and Joab the commander of the army had gone up to bury the slain, after he had stricken every male in Edom;
Joab and all Israel remained there six months until every male in Edom was cut off.
And Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father's servants with him, to go into Egypt; and Hadad was a little child.
And they rose up out of Midian and came to Paran, and they took men with them out of Paran and came into Egypt, to Pharaoh the king of Egypt. And he gave him a house and commanded bread for him, and gave land to him.
And Hadad found much favor in the eyes of Pharaoh, and he gave him a wife, the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen.
And the sister of Tahpenes bore him a son, Genubath, and Tahpenes weaned him in Pharaoh's house among Pharaoh's sons.
And Hadad had heard in Egypt that David had slept with his fathers, and that Joab the commander of the army was dead. And Hadad said to Pharaoh, Send me away and I will go to my land.
And Pharaoh said to him, But what are you lacking with me, that, lo, you are seeking to go to your land? And he said, Nothing. However, you shall certainly send me away.
And God raised up an adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliadah, who fled from his lord Hadadezer the king of Zobah.
And he gathered men to himself, and was head of a troop when David killed them. And they went to Damascus and lived in it, and reigned in Damascus.
And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, besides the evil that Hadad did ; and he despised Israel and reigned over Syria.
And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda, a servant of Solomon (and his mother's name was Zeruah, a widow woman) he also lifted up a hand against the king.
And this was the thing for which he lifted up his hand against the king: Solomon built Millo, repairing the breaks of the city of his father David.
And the man Jeroboam was a mighty warrior. And Solomon saw the young man, that he was doing work. And he appointed him to all the burden of the house of Joseph.
And at that time it happened that Jeroboam had gone out from Jerusalem, and Ahijah the Shilonite, the prophet, found him in the way. And he covered himself with a new garment, and both of them were by themselves in a field.
And Ahijah laid hold on the new garment on him and tore it into twelve pieces.
And he said to Jeroboam, Take ten pieces for yourself. For so says Jehovah, God of Israel, Behold, I am tearing the kingdom from the hand of Solomon and giving to you the ten tribes.
And he shall have the one tribe for my servant David's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel.
Because they have forsaken Me, and bow themselves to Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, to Chemosh the god of Moab, to Milcom the god of the sons of Ammon; and have not walked in My ways, to do the right in My eyes, and My statutes and My judgments, as his father David did.
But I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him ruler all the days of his life, for My servant David's sake, whom I chose, because he kept My commands and My statutes.
But I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand, and will give it to you, ten tribes.
And I will give one tribe to his son, that there may be a lamp to My servant David before Me all the days in Jerusalem the city that I have chosen to Myself, to put My name there.
And I will take you, and you shall reign according to all that your soul desires, and shall be king over Israel.
And it shall be, if you shall hear all that I command you, and shall walk in My ways, and do that which is right in My eyes, to keep My statutes and My commands, as My servant David did, then I shall be with you and shall build a sure house for you, as I built for David, and shall give Israel to you.
And for this I will humble the seed of David; but not forever.
And Solomon sought to put Jeroboam to death, and Jeroboam rose up and fled to Egypt, to Shishak the king of Egypt; and he was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
And the rest of the matters of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the Book of the Acts of Solomon?
And the days that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel were forty years;
and Solomon lay with his fathers and was buried in the city of his father David; and his son Rehoboam reigned in his place.