For this reason, holy brothers, called to be partakers of a heavenly calling , consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Christ Jesus,
"being faithful" to Him who appointed Him, as also "Moses" "in all his house." Num. 12:7
For He was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, by so much as the one having built the house has more honor than the house.
For every house is built by someone; but He who built all things is God.
And "Moses" truly " was faithful in all his house" as a ministering servant, for a testimony of the things having been spoken; Num. 12:7
but Christ as Son over His house, whose house we are, if truly we hold fast the boldness and rejoicing of the hope firm to the end.
Because of this, even as the Holy Spirit says, "Today, if you hear His voice,
do not harden your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness,
there where your fathers tempted Me, testing Me, and saw My works forty years.
Because of this, I was angry with that generation and said, They always go astray in heart; and they did not know My ways;
so I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest." LXX-Psa. 94:7-11; MT-Psa. 95:7-11
Watch, brothers, lest perhaps shall be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief in withdrawing from the living God.
But exhort yourselves each day, as long as it is being called today, that not any of you be hardened by the deceit of sin.
For we have become partakers of Christ, if truly we hold the beginning of the assurance firm to the end;
as in the saying, "Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts, as in the provocation." LXX-Psa. 94:7, 8; MT-Psa. 95:7, 8
For hearing, some provoked Him , but not all those coming out of Egypt through Moses.
But with whom was He angry forty years? Was it not with the ones sinning, whose corpses fell in the wilderness?
And to whom did "He swear" " they would not enter into His rest," except to those not obeying? LXX-Psa. 94:11; MT-Psa. 95:11
And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.