Then Job answered and said,
How long will all of you vex my soul, and break me in pieces with words?
These ten times have all of you reproached me: all of you are not ashamed that all of you make yourselves strange to me.
And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remains with myself.
If indeed all of you will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach:
Know now that God has overthrown me, and has compassed me with his net.
Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but there is no judgment.
He has fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he has set darkness in my paths.
He has stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head.
He has destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope has he removed like a tree.
He has also kindled his wrath against me, and he counts me unto him as one of his enemies.
His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and camp round about my tabernacle.
He has put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are verily cut off from me.
My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me.
They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a stranger: I am an foreigner in their sight.
I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I implored him with my mouth.
My breath is strange to my wife, though I implored for the children's sake of mine own body.
Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spoke against me.
All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are turned against me.
My bone cleaves to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth.
Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O all of you my friends; for the hand of God has touched me.
Why do all of you persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh?
Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book!
That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock for ever!
For I know that my redeemer lives, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:
And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God:
Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me.
But all of you should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the matter is found in me?
Be all of you afraid of the sword: for wrath brings the punishments of the sword, that all of you may know there is a judgment.