Thus were finished the heavens and the earth and all their host.
Thus God finished, on the seventh day his work which he had made, and rested, on the seventh day, from all his work which he had made.
And God blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it,—because therein, rested he from all his work which God, by creating, had made.
These are the geneses of the heavens and the earth when they were created,—in the day when Yahweh God made earth and heavens.
Now, no bush of the field, as yet—was in the earth, and, no herb of the field, as yet had sprung up,—because Yahweh God had not sent rain on the earth, and, man, was there none to till the ground;
but, a vapour, went up from the earth,—and watered all the face of the ground.
So then Yahweh God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed in his nostrils the breath of life—and man became a living soul.
And Yahweh God planted a garden in Eden, on the east,—and put there the man whom he had formed.
And Yahweh God, caused to spring up, out of the ground, every tree pleasant to the sight and good for food,—and the tree of life, in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
Now, a river, was coming forth out of Eden, to water the garden,—and, from thence, it parted, and became four heads,
The name of the one, is Pishon,—the same, is that which surroundeth all the land of Havilah, where is gold;
moreover the gold of that land, is good,—there, is the bdellium, and the beryl stone,
And the name of the second river, is Gihon,—the same, is that which surroundeth all the land of Cush,
And, the name of the third river, is Hiddekel, the same, is that which goeth in front of Assyria; and the fourth river, is Euphrates.
So Yahweh God took the man,—and placed him in the garden of Eden, to till it and to keep it.
And Yahweh God laid command on the man, saying,—Of every tree of the garden, thou mayest eat;
but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it,—for in the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt die.
And Yahweh God said, It is, not good, that the man should remain alone,—I will make for him a helper as his counterpart.
Now Yahweh God had formed from the ground every living thing of the field and every bird of the heavens, which he brought in unto the man, that he might see what he should call it,—and, whatsoever the man should call it—any living soul, that, should be the name thereof.
So the man gave names to all the tame-beasts, and to the birds of the heavens, and to all the wild-beasts of the field,—but, for man, had there not been found a helper as his counterpart.
So Yahweh God caused a deep sleep to fall on the man, and he slept,—and he took one of his ribs, and closed up flesh instead thereof.
And Yahweh God builded the rib which he had taken from the man, into a woman, and brought her in unto the man.
And the man said, This, one, now, is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh! This, one shall be called Woman, for, out of a man, hath this one been taken.
For this cause, will a man leave his father and his mother, and cleave unto his wife, and they shall become one flesh.
And they were both of them naked, the man and his wife,—and put not each other to shame.