To the chief musician. A Psalm of David. In You, O Jehovah, I sought refuge; let me never be ashamed; deliver me in Your righteousness.
Bow down Your ear to me; deliver me quickly, be a strong rock to me, for a house of fortresses to save me.
For You are my Rock and my Fortress; and for Your name's sake lead me and guide me.
Bring me out of the net that they hid for me, for You are my strength.
Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O Jehovah, God of truth.
I have hated those keeping worthless idols; but I trust in Jehovah.
And I will be glad and rejoice in Your mercy; for You have seen my affliction; You have known the distresses in my soul;
and have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a broad place.
Be gracious to me, O Jehovah, for I am in trouble; my eye has wasted away with grief, my soul and my belly.
For my life is ending with grief, and my years with sighing; my strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones have wasted away.
I was a reproach among all my foes, but especially to my neighbors; and a fear to my friends, those who saw me outside fled from me.
I am forgotten like one dead from the heart; I am like a perishing vessel.
For I have heard the slander of many; fear is all around; because of their plottings together against me, they planned to take away my life.
But I trusted in You, O Jehovah; I said, You are my God.
My times are in Your hand; deliver me from the hand of my enemies and from those who pursue me.
Make Your face shine on Your servant; save me in Your mercy.
Let me not be ashamed, O Jehovah; for I have called upon You; let the wicked be ashamed; let them be silent in Sheol.
Let the lying lips be silenced which speak recklessly against the righteous with pride and scorn.
How great is Your goodness which You have laid up for those who fear You; You have worked for those who trust in You before the sons of mankind.
In the secrecy of Your presence You shall hide them from man's plots; You shall cover them in a booth, from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be Jehovah, for He has worked His mercy wondrously to me in a besieged city.
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from Your eyes; surely you heard the voice of my prayers when I cried to You.
O love Jehovah, all you saints of His; Jehovah preserves the faithful, and abundantly repays the proud doer.
Be strong, and He will make your heart stronger, all you who hope in Jehovah.