I NOW commend unto you Phoebe our sister, who is a deaconess of the church which is at Cenchrea:
that ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that you assist her in every matter wherein she may have need of you: for she hath also been a succourer of many, and of me myself.
Salute Priscilla and Aquila my fellow-labourers in Christ Jesus:
(who for my life have laid down their own neck: to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles:)
and the church which is in their house.   Salute Epinetus my beloved, who is the first-fruits of Achaia unto Christ.
Salute Mary, who laboured in many things to serve us.
Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and fellow-prisoners, who are eminent among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
Salute Amplias my beloved in the Lord.
Salute Urban, our fellow-labourer in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
Salute Apelles the approved in Christ. Salute those who are of the family of Aristobulus.
Salute Herodion my kinsman. Salute those which belong to the family of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.
Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who have laboured hard in the Lord. Salute Persis the beloved, who laboured much in the Lord.
Salute Rufus elect in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Dermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren which are with them.
Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
Salute one another with the holy kiss. The churches of Christ salute you.
Now I beseech you, brethren, keep a sharp eye over those who cause divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine ye have learned, and turn away from them.
For such are not servants to our Lord Jesus Christ, but to their own belly; and by smooth speeches and flattering commendations deceive the hearts of the guileless.
For your obedience is gone forth in report to all men. I rejoice therefore on your account: but I wish you to be wise indeed unto good, but harmless respecting evil.
Now the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
There salute you Timothy, my fellow-labourer, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
I Tertius, who have written this epistle, salute you in the Lord.
Gaius mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you. Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Now to him that is able to stablish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, agreeable to the revelation of the mystery; which was concealed from all former ages,
but is now made manifest, and by the prophetical scriptures, according to the commandment of the eternal God, notified to all the Gentiles to bring them to the obedience of faith:
to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, be glory for ever and ever. Amen.   Written to the Romans, and sent by Phoebe, a deaconess of the church in Cenchrea. \p