And as they were speaking to the people, the priests, and the temple commander, and the Sadducees stood near them,
being distressed because they taught the people and announced in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
And they laid hands on them , and put them into custody until the morrow, for it was already evening.
But many of those hearing the Word believed; and the number of the men became about five thousand.
And it happened on the morrow that the rulers and elders and scribes gathered into Jerusalem;
also Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the high priestly family.
And standing them in the midst, they were inquiring, By what sort of power, or by what sort of name did you do this?
Then being filled of the Holy Spirit, Peter said to them, Rulers of the people and elders of Israel,
if we are being examined today on a good work of an infirm man, by what this one has been healed,
let it be known to all of you, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazaraean, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, in this name this one stands before you whole.
This One is the Stone counted worthless by you the builders, which has become to be the Head of the Corner; Psa. 118:22
and there is salvation in no other One, for neither is there any other name under Heaven having been given among men by which we must be saved.
But seeing the boldness of Peter and John, and having perceived that they are untaught and uneducated men, they marveled. And they recognized them, that they were with Jesus.
But seeing the man standing with them, the one having been healed, they had nothing to say against him .
But commanding them to go outside the sanhedrin, they conferred with one another,
saying, What may we do to these men? For that a notable miracle indeed has occurred through them is plain to all those living in Jerusalem, and we are not able to deny it.
But that it may not be spread abroad further to the people, let us threaten them with a threat that they no longer speak on this name to any one of men.
And calling them, they ordered them not to speak at all, nor to teach on the name of Jesus.
But answering them Peter and John said, Whether it is right before God to listen to you rather than God, you judge.
For we are not able not to speak what we saw and heard.
But having threatened them again, they released them, finding nothing as to how they might punish them, on account of the people, because all glorified God on the thing happening.
For the man on whom this miracle of healing had occurred was more than forty years of age .
And being let go, they came to their own and reported to them what the chief priests and elders said.
And hearing they with one passion lifted voice to God and said, Master, You are "the God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all things in them," Ex. 20:11
who through the mouth of Your servant David said, "Why did the nations rage, and the people meditated foolish things.
The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were assembled on the same day against the Lord, yea, against His Christ." Psa. 2:1, 2
For truly both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the nations and the peoples of Israel, were gathered together against Your holy child Jesus, whom You anointed,
to do whatever Your hand and Your counsel before-determined to be done.
And now, Lord, look upon their threatenings and give to Your slaves to speak Your Word with all boldness,
in the extending of Your hand for healing and miracles and wonders to happen through the name of Your holy child Jesus.
And they having prayed, the place in which they were gathered was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the Word of God with boldness.
And of the multitude of those who believed, the heart and the soul were one. And no one said any of the possessions to be his own, but all things were common to them.
And with great power the apostles gave testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
For neither was anyone needy among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses, selling them , they bore the value of the things being sold,
and laid them at the feet of the apostles. And it was distributed to each according as any had need.
And Joses, the one surnamed Barnabas by the apostles, which being translated is, Son of Consolation, a Levite, a Cypriot by race,
a field being his, selling it , he bore the proceeds and placed them at the feet of the apostles.