And there came together to him the Pharisees, and some of the scribes, who had come from Jerusalem:
and when they saw some of his disciples eating bread with common, that is, with unwashed hands:
(for the Pharisees and all the Jews eat not, unless they wash their hands carefully, because they hold the tradition of the elders:
and when they come from the market, they do not eat, unless they immerse themselves. And there are many other things, which they have received to hold, as the immersion of cups and pitchers and brazen vessels and beds:)
then the Pharisees and the scribes asked him: Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands?
He answered and said to them: Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
In vain do they worship me, teaching precepts, the commandments of men.
For, neglecting the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the immersion of pitchers and cups; and many other things like these you do.
And he said to them: Well do you reject the commandment of God, that you may keep your own tradition.
For Moses said: Honor your father and your mother; and, He that curses father or mother shall surely be put to death.
But you say: If a man shall say to his father or mother, Whatever of mine might benefit you, is Corban, (which means, a gift,)
you no longer suffer him to do any thing for his father or mother,
making the word of God of no effect by your tradition, which you have delivered; and many things like these you do.
And he called the whole multitude to him, and said to them: Hear me, all of you, and understand.
There is nothing without that, by entering into a man, can defile him. But those things which come out of the man, defile him.
If any one has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when he had gone into the house, away from the multitude, his disciples asked him about the dark saying.
And he said to them: Are you also so void of understanding? Do you not perceive that nothing from without, by entering into a man, can defile him?
Because it does not enter into his heart, but into his belly, and goes out into the sink, cleansing all food.
And he said: What comes out of the man, is that which defiles the man.
For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed the purposes which are evil: adulteries, lewd actions, murders,
thefts, schemes for extortion, wicked deeds, deceit, wantonness, an evil eye, calumny, haughtiness, impiety.
All these evil things come forth from within, and defile the man.
And he arose and departed thence to the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house, and desired that no one should know it; but he could not escape notice.
For a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of him, and came and fell at his feet;
(the woman was a Greek, a Syrophenician by nation,) and she besought him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
But Jesus said to her: Let the children be satisfied first; for it is not good to take the children’s bread and throw it to the little dogs.
She answered and said to him: Yes, Lord; and yet you can help me, for the little dogs under the table eat of the children’s crumbs.
And he said to her: For this saying, go your way: the demon has gone out of your daughter.
And she went to her house, and found the demon gone out, and her daughter lying upon the bed.
And again he went out from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the borders of Decapolis.
And they brought to him a deaf man, who spoke with difficulty; and they besought him to lay his hand upon him.
And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue;
and looking up to heaven, he sighed, and said to him: Ephphatha, which means, Be opened.
And immediately his ears were opened, and the band of his tongue was loosed, and he spoke plainly.
And he charged them to tell no one; but the more he charged them, the more earnestly they published it.
And they were amazed beyond measure, and said: He Las done all things well: he makes the deaf hear and the dumb speak.