At which time the myriads of the crowd being gathered together, so as to trample on one another, He began to say to His disciples first, Take heed to yourselves of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
But there is nothing which has been completely concealed which will not be uncovered, nor hidden which will not be known.
For this reason, whatever you said in the darkness will be heard in the light; and whatever you spoke in the ear in the secret rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops.
But I say to you, My friends, stop being afraid of the ones killing the body, and after these things not having anything more they can do.
But I will warn you whom you should fear; fear the ones who after the killing have authority to cast into Hell; yea, I say to you, fear that One!
Are not five sparrows sold for two assaria? And not one of them has been forgotten before God.
But even the hairs of your head have all been numbered. Then stop being afraid; you differ from many sparrows.
But I say to you, everyone who may confess Me before men, the Son of man will also confess him before the angels of God.
But he that denies me before man shall be denied before the angels of God.
And everyone who shall say a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven Him; but the ones blaspheming against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven.
But when they bring you in before synagogues and rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious how or what you shall reply, or what you should say;
for the Holy Spirit will teach you in the same hour what you ought to say.
And one from the crowd said to Him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
But He said to him, Man, who appointed Me a judge or a divider over you?
And He said to them, Beware, and keep back from covetousness; for one's life is not in the abundance of the things which are his.
And He spoke a parable to them, saying, A certain rich man produced well from the land.
And he reasoned within himself, saying, What may I do, for I have nowhere I may gather my fruits?
And he said, I will do this; I will tear down my barns and I will build larger; and I will gather there all my produce and my goods.
And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years; take rest, eat, drink, and be glad.
But God said to him, Fool! This night they demand your soul from you; and that which you prepared, to whom will it be?
So is he treasuring up for himself, and not being rich toward God.
And He said to His disciples, Because of this I say to you, do not be anxious as to your life, what you should eat; nor as to the body, what you should put on.
The life is more than the food and the body than the clothing.
Consider the ravens, for they do not sow, nor do they reap; to which there is no storehouse or barn, and God feeds them. How much rather you differ from the birds!
And who of you by being anxious is able to add one cubit to his stature?
Then if you are not able to do even the least, why are you anxious about the rest?
Consider the lilies, how they grow: they do not labor, nor do they spin, but I say to you, not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed as one of these.
But if God so dresses the grass, which today is in the field and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much rather you, little-faiths?
And you, do not seek what you shall eat, or what you shall drink, and stop being in anxiety.
For all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your Father knows that you need these things.
But seek the kingdom of God and all these things will be added to you.
Stop being afraid, little flock, because your Father was pleased to give you the kingdom.
Sell your possessions and give alms. Make for yourselves purses that do not grow old, an unfailing treasure in Heaven, where a thief cannot come near, nor moth can corrupt.
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Let your loins be girded about, and the lamps burning,
and you be like men awaiting their Lord when he returns from the feasts, so that he coming and knocking, they will at once open to him.
Blessed are those slaves whom the Lord will find watching when he comes. Truly I say to you that he will gird himself and will make them recline, and coming up he will serve them.
And if he comes in the second watch, or he comes in the third watch, and finds it so, blessed are those slaves.
But know this, that if the house-master had known the hour the thief is coming, he would have watched and would not have allowed his house to be dug through.
And you, then, be ready; for in the hour you think not, the Son of man comes.
And Peter said to Him, Lord, do You speak this parable to us, or also to all?
And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise steward whom the lord will set over his house servants, to give the portion of food in season?
Blessed is that slave when his Lord comes and will find him so doing.
Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
But if that slave should say in his heart, My lord delays to come, and should begin to beat the men servants and the female servants, and to eat and to drink and be drunk,
the lord of that slave will come in the day in which he does not expect, and in an hour which he does not know. And he will cut him apart and will put his portion with the unbelievers.
But that slave knowing the will of his Lord, and not preparing, nor doing according to His will, will be beaten with many stripes .
But he not knowing, and doing things worthy of stripes, will be beaten with few. And everyone given much, much will be demanded from him. And to whom much was deposited, more exceedingly they will ask of him.
I came to hurl fire into the earth, and what will I if it already has been lit?
But I have a baptism to be immersed in, and how am I pressed until it is done!
Do you think that I came to give peace in the earth? No, I say to you, but rather division.
For from now on five in one house will have been divided, three against two, and two against three.
Father will be divided against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, "and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law." Mic. 7:6
And He also said to the crowd, When you see the cloud rising up from the west, you immediately say, A storm is coming; and it happens so.
And when a south wind is blowing, you say, There will be heat; and it occurs.
Hypocrites! You know to discern the face of the earth and of the heaven, but how is it you do not discern this time?
And why do you not judge what is right even of yourselves?
For as you go with your adversary to a judge, give pains in the way to be set free from him, that he not drag you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison.
I say to you, in no way may you leave there until you pay even the last lepton.