And he came to Derbe and Lystra; and lo! a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a believing Jewess, but whose father was a Greek;
who was well a spoken of by the brethren in Lystra and Iconium.
Him Paul wished to go forth with him, and took and circumcised him on account of the Jews who were in those places; for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
And as they journeyed through the cities, they delivered to them for their observance the decrees which had been ordained by the apostles and elders that were at Jerusalem.
The churches therefore were established in the faith, and increased in number daily.
And having gone through Phrygia and the Galatian country, on being forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach the word in Asia,
they came to Mysia, and were attempting to go into Bithynia; but the Spirit of Jesus did not permit them.
And passing by Mysia, they came to Troas.
And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia beseeching him and saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us.
And when he had seen the vision, we immediately endeavored to go into Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to publish the glad tidings to them.
And setting sail from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothrace, and on the day following to Neapolis;
and thence to Philippi, which is a chief city of the province of Macedonia, a colony. And we remained in the city some days.
And on the sabbath-day we went forth out of the gate to a river-side, where was wont to be a place of prayer, and we sat down, and spoke to the women who had assembled.
And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, who worshipped God, was listening; whose heart the Lord opened to attend to the things which were spoken by Paul.
And when she had been baptized, and her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be a believer in the Lord, come into my house, and abide. And she constrained us.
And it came to pass, as we were going to the place of prayer, that a certain bond-maid having a soothsaying spirit met us, who brought her masters much gain by soothsaying.
This woman followed Paul and us, and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God, who announce to you the way of salvation.
And this she did for many days. But Paul, being much displeased, turned and said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out immediately.
But her masters seeing that the hope of their gain was gone, laid hold of Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the market-place to the rulers;
and having brought them before the magistrates, said, These men are grievously disturbing our city, being Jews;
and they teach customs which it is not lawful for us Romans to receive or observe.
And the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates, tearing off their clothes, commanded to beat them with rods;
and when they had laid on them many stripes, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely;
who having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks.
But at midnight Paul and Silas praying, were singing praises to God; and the prisoners were listening to them.
And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and all the doors were immediately opened, and the bands of all were loosed.
And the jailer awakening out of sleep, and seeing the prison-doors open, drew his sword, and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here.
Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas;
and having brought them out, he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
And they said, Believe in the Lord Jesus, and thou wilt be saved, and thy household.
And they spoke to him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house.
And he took them with him at that hour of the night, and washed their stripes; and he was immediately baptized, himself and all that belonged to him.
And when he had brought them up into his house, he set food before them, and rejoiced with all his house, having become a believer in God.
And when it was day, the magistrates sent the sergeants, saying, Release those men.
And the jailer reported these words to Paul: The magistrates have sent to release you; now therefore come out, and go in peace.
But Paul said to them, They have publicly beaten us uncondemned, although we are Romans, and have thrust us into prison; and now do they thrust us out secretly? No; but let them come themselves, and bring us out.
And the sergeants reported these words to the magistrates; and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans.
And they came and besought them; and when they had brought them out, they entreated them to leave the city.
And when they had come out of the prison, they went into the house of Lydia; and when they saw the brethren, they exhorted them, and departed.