And in the seventh month, on the first of the month you shall have a holy gathering; you shall do no work of service. It shall be a day of blowing the trumpets to you.
And you shall prepare a burnt offering for a soothing fragrance to Jehovah: one bullock, a son of the herd, one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
and their food offering, flour mixed with oil, three tenths parts for the bullock, two tenths parts for the ram,
and one tenth part for each of the seven lambs;
and one kid of the goats, a sin offering to atone for you;
besides the burnt offering of the month, and its food offering, and the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and their drink offerings, according to their ordinance for soothing fragrance, a fire offering to Jehovah.
And on the tenth of this seventh month you shall have a holy gathering; you shall do no work of service, you shall humble your souls.
And you shall offer a burnt offering to Jehovah, a soothing fragrance: one bullock, a son of the herd, one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year, they shall be perfect ones for you;
and their food offering, flour mixed with oil, three tenths parts for the bullock two tenths parts for the one ram;
one tenth part for the one lamb, for the seven lambs;
one kid of the goats, a sin offering, besides the sin offering of the atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and their drink offerings.
And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, you shall have a holy gathering; you shall do no work of service; and you shall celebrate a feast to Jehovah seven days.
And you shall offer a burnt offering, a fire offering, a soothing fragrance to Jehovah: thirteen bullocks, sons of the herd, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year; they shall be perfect ones;
and their food offerings, flour mixed with oil, three tenths parts to the one bullock, for the thirteen bullocks; two tenths parts to each of the two rams;
and one tenth part to each of the fourteen lambs;
and one kid of the goats, a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its food offering and its drink offering.
And on the second day twelve bullocks, sons of the herd, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
and their food offerings, and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, in their number, according to the ordinance;
and one kid of the goats, a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and their drink offerings.
And in the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
and their food offerings, and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, in their number, according to the ordinance;
and one goat as a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and its drink offering.
And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
their food offering, and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, in their number, according to the ordinance;
and one kid of the goats, a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and its drink offering.
And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
their food offering, and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams and for the lambs, in their number, according to the ordinance;
and one goat, a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and its drink offering.
And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
their food offerings, and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, in their number, according to the ordinance;
and one goat, a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and its drink offering.
And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
their food offerings, and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, in their number, according to the ordinance;
and one goat, a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and its drink offering.
And you shall have a solemn assembly on the eighth day; you shall do no work of service.
And you shall offer a burnt offering, a fire offering, a soothing fragrance to Jehovah: one bullock, one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones;
their food offerings, and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, in their number, according to the ordinance;
and one goat, a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and its food offering, and its drink offering.
You shall prepare these for Jehovah in your appointed seasons, apart from your vows and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your food offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.
And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses.