O give thanks unto the LORD; Call upon his name; Make known his deeds among the people!
Sing unto him; sing psalms unto him; Tell ye of all his wondrous works!
Glory ye in his holy name; Let the hearts of them that seek the LORD rejoice!
Seek the LORD, and his majesty; Seek his face continually!
Remember the wonders he hath wrought, His miracles and the judgments of his mouth,
Ye offspring of Abraham his servant, Ye children of Jacob his chosen!
Jehovah, he is our God, His judgments are over all the earth.
He remembereth his covenant for ever, And the promise to a thousand generations;
The covenant which he made with Abraham, And the oath which he gave to Isaac;
Which he confirmed to Jacob for a decree, And to Israel for an everlasting covenant.
"To thee," said he, "will I give the land of Canaan For the lot of your inheritance."
When they were yet few in number, Very few, and strangers in the land;
When they went from nation to nation, From one kingdom to another people,
He suffered no man to oppress them; Yea, he rebuked kings for their sakes.
"Touch not," said he, "mine anointed, And do my prophets no harm!"
Again, when he commanded a famine in the land, And broke the whole staff of bread,
He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold as a slave.
His feet they hurt with fetters; He was bound in chains of iron;
Until his prediction came to pass, And the word of the LORD proved him.
Then the king sent, and loosed him; The ruler of nations, and set him free;
He made him governor of his house, And lord of all his possessions;
To bind his princes at his pleasure, And teach his counsellors wisdom.
Israel also came into Egypt, And Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham;
Where God increased his people greatly, And made them stronger than their enemies.
He turned their hearts to hate his people, And form devices against his servants.
Then sent he Moses his servant, And Aaron, whom he had chosen.
They showed his signs among them, And his wonders in the land of Ham.
He sent darkness upon them, and made it dark; And they did not disobey his word.
He turned their waters into blood, And caused their fish to die.
Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, Even in the chambers of their kings.
He spake, and there came flies, And lice in all their coasts.
Instead of rain he gave them hail, And flaming fire in their land.
He smote also their vines and fig-trees, And broke the trees of their coasts.
He spake, and the locusts came. Destructive locusts without number,
Which ate up all the herbage in their land, And devoured the fruits of their fields.
Then he smote all the first-born in their land, The first-fruits of all their strength.
He led forth his people with silver and gold; Nor was there one feeble person in all their tribes.
Egypt was glad when they departed, For their terror had fallen upon them.
He spread out a cloud for a covering, And fire to give light by night.
They asked, and he brought quails, And satisfied them with the bread of heaven.
He opened the rock, and the waters gushed forth, And ran in the dry places like a river.
For he remembered his holy promise, Which he had made to Abraham his servant;
And he led forth his people with joy, And his chosen with gladness.
He gave to them the lands of the nations, And they inherited the labor of the peoples;
That they might observe his statutes, And obey his laws. Praise ye the LORD!