Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble.
He cometh forth like a flower, and withereth; he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.
And dost Thou open Thine eyes upon such a one, and bringest me into judgment with Thee?
Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.
Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months is with Thee, and Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;
Look away from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day.
For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground;
Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and put forth boughs like a plant.
But man dieth, and lieth low; yea, man perisheth, and where is he?
As the waters fail from the sea, and the river is drained dry;
So man lieth down and riseth not; till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be roused out of their sleep.
Oh that Thou wouldest hide me in the nether-world, that Thou wouldest keep me secret, until Thy wrath be past, that Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!--
If a man die, may he live again? All the days of my service would I wait, till my relief should come--
Thou wouldest call, and I would answer Thee; Thou wouldest have a desire to the work of Thy hands.
But now Thou numberest my steps, Thou dost not even wait for my sin;
My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and Thou heapest up mine iniquity.
And surely the mountain falling crumbleth away, and the rock is removed out of its place;
The waters wear the stones; the overflowings thereof wash away the dust of the earth; so Thou destroyest the hope of man.
Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth; Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.
His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he regardeth them not.
But his flesh grieveth for him, and his soul mourneth over him.