And he came to Derbe and Lystra; and behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewess, who was a believer; but his father was a Greek.
A good report was given of him by the brethren in Lystra and Iconium.
This man Paul wished to go with him: and he took him and circumcised him, on account of the Jews that were in those places: for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
And as they went through the cities, they delivered to them the decrees that had been resolved on by the apostles and elders at Jerusalem, that they might keep them.
Therefore, the churches were established in the faith, and they increased in number daily.
When they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, being forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach the word in Asia,
and had come to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia; and the Spirit did not permit them.
But having passed by Mysia, they came down to Troas.
And, during the night, a vision appeared to Paul. A certain man of Macedonia stood and besought him, saying: Come over to Macedonia and help us.
After he had seen the vision, we immediately endeavored to go into Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel to them.
Therefore, setting sail from Troas, we came by a straight course to Samothracia, and, on the following day, to Neapolis,
and thence to Philippi, which is the first city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony. We remained in that city some days:
and on the sabbath-day we went out of the city to the side of a river, where, as usual, was the house of prayer; and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.
And a certain woman, named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God, heard; whose heart the Lord opened to attend to the things that were spoken by Paul.
And when she and her household had been immersed, she besought us, saying: If you judge me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house, and make it your home. And she con strained us.
And it came to pass, that as we were going to the house of prayer, there met us a certain maid-servant that had a spirit of Python, who brought much gain to her masters, by giving responses.
She followed Paul and us, and cried out, saying: These men are the servants of the most High God, who show us the way of salvation.
And this she continued to do for many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the spirit: I command you, in the name of Jesus Christ, to come out of her. And it came out that very hour.
And when her masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the market to the rulers.
And having brought them to the magistrates, they said: These men, who are Jews, do greatly trouble our city;
and they teach customs which it is not lawful for us, who are Romans, to receive or to observe.
And the multitude rose up together against them; and the magistrates stripped off their clothes, and gave command to beat them with rods.
And when they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, and charged the jailer to keep them securely.
And having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks.
And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sung a hymn to God; and the prisoners were listening to them.
And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened, and every one’s bonds were loosed.
And the jailer, being aroused from sleep, and seeing the doors of the prison open, drew his sword, and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had fled.
But Paul called out with a loud voice, saying: Do yourself no harm, for we are all here.
Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and trembling, he fell down before Paul and Silas;
and, having brought them out, he said: Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
They replied: Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you and your house shall be saved.
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him, and to all that were in his house.
And he took them at that hour of the night, and washed the blood from their stripes; and he was immersed, himself and all his, immediately.
And he brought them into his house, and set food before them, and rejoiced, believing in God, with all his house.
But when it was day, the magistrates sent the lictors, saying: Release those men.
And the jailer told these words to Paul: The magistrates have sent to release you. Now, therefore, come out, and go in peace.
But Paul said to them: Having publicly scourged us uncondemned, us who are Romans, they threw us into prison: and do they now put us out secretly? No, verily: but let them come and lead us out.
And the lictors told these words to the magistrates: and they were alarmed when they heard that they were Romans;
and they came, and entreated them, and led them out, and requested them to depart from the city.
And having come out of the prison, they went into the house of Lydia; and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and departed.