And I saw, and behold, the Lamb stood on the mount Zion, and with him a hundred and forty-four thousand, that had his name and his Father’s name written in their foreheads.
And I heard a voice from heaven like the voice of many waters, and like the voice of loud thunder; and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps.
And they sung a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and the elders: and no one was able to learn the song, but the hundred and forty-four thousand that had been redeemed from the earth.
These are they that were not defiled with women; for they are virgins; these are they that follow the Lamb wherever he goes: these were redeemed from among men, the first-fruits to God and to the Lamb.
And in their mouth was found no guile; for they are blameless.
And I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven, having the eternal gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth, even to every nation and tribe and tongue and people;
and he said with a loud voice: Fear God, and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment has come; and worship him that made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.
And another angel followed, saying: Babylon the great has fallen, has fallen; because she has made all nations drink of the maddening wine of her lewdness.
And the third angel followed them, saying, with a loud voice: If any one worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or on his hand, even he shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is prepared without mixture in the cup of his indignation;
and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
and the smoke of their torment ascends from age to age: and they who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name, have no rest day or night.
Here is the patience of the saints, who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice from heaven, saying: Write, Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord from this time. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them.
And I saw, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud sat one like the Son of man, who had on his head a crown of gold, and in his hand a sharp sickle.
And another angel came out of the temple, and cried with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud: Thrust in your sickle and reap, for the time has come for you to reap, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe.
And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped.
And another angel came out of the temple that is in heaven, and he also had a sharp sickle.
And another angel that had power over fire, came out from the altar; and he cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, and said: Thrust in your sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for its grapes are fully ripe.
And the angel thrust in his sickle on the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and threw it into the great wine-press of the wrath of God.
And the wine-press was trodden without the city; and blood came out of the wine-press, even to the bridles of the horses, to the distance of a thousand and six hundred furlongs.