And all the congregation of the sons of Israel pulled up stakes from the Wilderness of Sin, according to their journeys, by the mouth of Jehovah. And they camped in Rephidim. And there was no water for the drinking of the people.
And the people wrangled with Moses, and said, Give us water that we may drink. And Moses said to them, Why do you wrangle with me? Why do you tempt Jehovah?
And the people thirsted there for water, and the people murmured against Moses, and said, Why, then, have you caused us to go up from Egypt, to kill me and my sons and my livestock with thirst?
And Moses cried to Jehovah, saying, What shall I do to this people? Yet a little and they will stone me.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Pass on in front of the people, and take with you some of the elders of Israel And take in your hand your staff with which you smote the River, and go.
Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock in Horeb. And you shall smite the rock, and water will come out of it; and the people will drink. And Moses did so before the eyes of the elders of Israel.
And one called the name of the place, Massah, and, Meribah because of the wrangling of the sons of Israel, and because of their testing of Jehovah, saying, Is Jehovah in our midst, or not?
And Amalek came and fought against Israel in Rephidim.
And Moses said to Joshua, Choose men for us, and go fight against Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill, and the staff of God in my hand.
And Joshua did as Moses had said to him, to fight against Amalek And Moses, Aaron and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
And so it was that when Moses lifted his hand, Israel prevailed. And when he rested his hand, Amalek conquered.
And the hands of Moses became heavy. And they took a stone and put it under him. And he sat on it. And Aaron and Hur held up his hands, one from this and one from that side . And his hands were steady until the going of the sun.
And Joshua defeated Amalek and his people by the mouth of the sword.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Write this, a memorial in a book, and set it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly wipe away the remembrance of Amalek under the heavens.
And Moses built an altar. And he called its name, Jehovah My Banner.
And he said, A hand is on the throne of Jehovah; war is to Jehovah with Amalek from generation to generation.