And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, in which Solomon had built the house of Jehovah, and his own house,
that the cities which Huram had given to Solomon, Solomon built them, and caused the sons of Israel to dwell there.
And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah, and prevailed against it.
And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store-cities, which he built in Hamath.
Also he built Beth-horon the upper, and Beth-horon the lower, fortified cities, with walls, gates, and bars,
and Baalath, and all the store-cities that Solomon had, and all the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build for his pleasure in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
As for all the people who were left of the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, that were not of Israel,
of their sons who were left after them in the land whom the sons of Israel did not consumed, of them Solomon raised a levy of bondservants to this day.
But Solomon made no servants of the sons of Israel for his work, but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and rulers of his chariots and of his horsemen.
And these were the chief officers of king Solomon, even two hundred and fifty that bore rule over the people.
And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of David to the house that he had built for her. For he said, My wife shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places are holy in which the ark of Jehovah has come.
Then Solomon offered burnt offerings to Jehovah on the altar of Jehovah, which he had built before the porch,
even as the duty of every day required, offering according to the commandment of Moses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the set feasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.
And he appointed, according to the ordinance of David his father, the divisions of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their offices, to praise, and to minister before the priests, as the duty of every day required, also the porters by their divisions at every gate. For so David the man of God had commanded.
And they did not depart from the commandment of the king to the priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the treasures.
Now all the work of Solomon was prepared from the day of the foundation of the house of Jehovah, and until it was finished. So the house of Jehovah was completed.
Then Solomon went to Ezion-geber, and to Eloth, on the seashore in the land of Edom.
And Huram sent ships to him by the hands of his servants, and servants who had knowledge of the sea. And they came with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and fetched from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.