Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise,
so that it may become well with thee, and thou will be long lasting on the earth.
And ye fathers, do not exasperate your children, but rear them in the training and admonition of the Lord.
Bondmen, be obedient to the masters according to flesh, with fear and trembling, in simplicity of your heart as to the Christ.
Not according to eye-service, as men-pleasers, but as bondmen of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul,
bond-serving with goodwill, as to the Lord and not to men.
Knowing that whatever good thing each may do, he will receive this from the Lord, whether bondman or freeman.
And ye masters, do the same things to them, easing up the threats, knowing also that the master of you yourselves is in the heavens, and there is no partiality from him.
Finally my brothers, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might.
Put on the full armor of God to enable you to stand against the wiles of the devil.
Because our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principal offices, against the positions of authority, against the world-rulers of the darkness of this age, against the spiritual things of wickedness in the heavenly things.
Because of this take ye up the full armor of God, so that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
Stand ye therefore having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
and having shod your feet in preparation of the good news of peace.
Above all having taken up the shield of faith, by which ye will be able to quench all the fiery darts of evil.
And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,
praying through every prayer and entreaty at every time in spirit, and being alert in this same thing in all perseverance and entreaty for all the sanctified,
and for me, so that utterance may be given to me in boldness in opening my mouth to make known the mystery of the good news,
for which I am an ambassador in bondage, so that in it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
But that ye also may know the things concerning me, what I do, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful helper in the Lord, will make known all things to you.
Whom I sent to you for this same thing, so that ye might know the things about us, and that he might encourage your hearts.
Peace to the brothers, and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
The grace is with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptibility. Truly.