When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father-in-law, heard of all that God had done with Moses and with Israel his people [and] how the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt,
then Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,
and her two sons, of which the name of the one [was] Gershon, for he said, I have been an alien in a strange land,
and the name of the other [was] Eliezer, for the God of my father, [said he], helped me and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh;
and Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he was camped next to the mount of God;
and he said unto Moses, I, thy father-in-law Jethro, am come unto thee and thy wife and her two sons with her.
And Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and did obeisance and kissed him; and they asked each other of [their] peace; and they came into the tent.
And Moses told his father-in-law all that the LORD had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake [and] all the travail that had come upon them in the way and [how] the LORD delivered them.
And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.
And Jethro said, Blessed [be] the LORD, who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
Now I know that the LORD [is] greater than all gods; for in the thing in which they dealt proudly [he prevailed] against them.
And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took burnt offerings and sacrifices for God; and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses' father-in-law before God.
And it came to pass another day that Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood before Moses from the morning unto the evening.
And when Moses' father-in-law saw all that he did to the people, he said, What [is] this that thou doest to the people? Why sittest thou thyself alone and all the people stand before thee from morning unto evening?
And Moses said unto his father-in-law, Because the people come unto me to enquire of God.
When they have a matter, they come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I declare unto [them] the statutes of God and his laws.
Then Moses' father-in-law said unto him, The thing that thou doest [is] not good.
Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou and this people that [is] with thee; for this thing [is] too heavy for thee; thou art not able to perform it thyself alone.
Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God shall be with thee: Be thou for the people before God that thou may submit the causes unto God.
And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws and shalt show them the way in which they must walk and the work that they must do.
Moreover thou shalt consider out of all the people men of virtue, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness, and place princes over them, of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens.
And let them judge the people at all seasons; and it shall be [that] every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge, so shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear [the burden] with thee.
If thou shalt do this thing and God command thee [so], then thou shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their place in peace.
So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said.
And Moses chose men of virtue out of all Israel and made them heads over the people, princes over thousands, over hundreds, over fifties, and over tens.
And they judged the people at all seasons; the hard causes they brought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.
And Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went to his own land.: