Do not sharply rebuke an elder, but exhort as a father, and the younger ones as brothers,
older women as mothers, the younger as sisters in all purity.
Honor widows who are widows indeed.
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to be godly to their own house, and give back to their forebears what is due them; for that is good and pleasing before God.
But she being really a widow, and having been left alone, trusts on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day.
But she who lives in self-pleasure has died while living.
And command these things so that they may be blameless.
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially his family, he has denied the faith and is worse than an infidel.
Do not let a widow be enrolled under sixty years old, the wife of one man,
well reported of for good works: if she brought up children, if she lodged strangers, if she washed the feet of the saints, if she relieved the afflicted, if she followed after every good work.
But refuse younger widows, for whenever they grow lustful against Christ, they desire to marry;
having guilt because they have cast off the first faith.
And with it all they also learn to be idle, going around the houses; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things they ought not.
Therefore I want the younger ones to marry, bear children, guide the house, giving no occasion to the adversary because of reproach.
For some have already turned aside after Satan.
If any believing man or believing woman has widows, let them relieve them, and do not let the church be charged, so that it may relieve those who are widows indeed.
Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in word and doctrine.
For the Scripture says, "You shall not muzzle the ox treading out grain," and, "The laborer is worthy of his reward."
Do not receive an accusation against an elder except before two or three witnesses.
Those who sin, rebuke before all, so that the rest also may fear.
I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the elect angels, that you guard these things without prejudice, doing nothing by partiality.
Do not lay hands quickly on anyone, neither be partaker of the sins of others. Keep yourself pure.
Drink water no longer, but use a little wine for your stomach's sake, and for your many infirmities.
Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment. And some follow after.
Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand, and those otherwise cannot be hidden.