And Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashur, and Jucal, the son of Shelemiah, and Pashur, the son of Melchiah, heard the words that Jeremiah had spoken to all the people, saying,
So says Jehovah, He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the plague. But he who goes forth to the Chaldeans shall live; and his life shall be a prize; and he shall live.
So says Jehovah, This city shall surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon's army, and he shall capture it.
And the rulers said to the king, Please let this man be put to death. For in this way he weakens the hands of the men of war who remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, in speaking these words to them. For this man does not seek the peace of this people, but the evil.
And Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand. For. the king cannot do anything against you.
And they took Jeremiah and threw him into the pit of Malchiah, the king's son, which was in the court of the guardhouse. And they let Jeremiah down with ropes. But no water was in the pit, only mud. So Jeremiah sank into the mud.
And Ebed-melech the Ethiopian man, of the eunuchs in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah into the pit (the king then sitting in the gate of Benjamin).
Ebed-melech went out of the king's house and spoke to the king, saying,
My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet, whom they have thrown into the pit. And he has died in his place because of the famine, for there is no more food in the city.
And the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, Take in your hand thirty men from here and lift Jeremiah the prophet out of the pit before he dies.
And Ebed-melech took the men in his hand and went into the king's house, to under the treasury. And he took worn out clothes and worn out rags from there. And he let them down by ropes into the pit to Jeremiah.
And Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, Now put these worn out clothes and rags under the armpits of your hands, under the ropes. And Jeremiah did so.
And they drew up Jeremiah with ropes and took him out of the pit. And Jeremiah dwelt in the court of the guardhouse.
And Zedekiah the king sent and took Jeremiah the prophet to him, into the third entrance in the house of Jehovah. And the king said to Jeremiah, I will ask you a thing; do not hide a thing from me.
And Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, If I declare it to you, will you not surely put me to death? And if I counsel you, you will not listen to me.
And Zedekiah the king swore secretly to Jeremiah, saying, As Jehovah lives, who made us this soul, I will not put you to death, nor will I give you into the hand of these men who seek your life.
And Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, So says Jehovah, the God of Hosts, the God of Israel: If going out you will go out to the rulers of the king of Babylon, then your soul shall live, and this city shall not be burned with fire. And you and your house shall live.
But if you will not go out to the rulers of the king of Babylon, even this city shall be given into the hands of the Chaldeans, and they will burn it with fire. And you shall not escape out of their hand.
And Zedekiah the king said to Jeremiah, I am afraid of the Jews who have fallen to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me to their hand and they abuse me.
And Jeremiah said, They will not give. Please obey the voice of Jehovah which I am speaking to you, and it will be well with you and your soul will live.
But if you refuse to go out, this is the word Jehovah has made me see:
Even, behold, all the women who are left in the house of the king of Judah shall be brought out to the rulers of the king of Babylon. And they will say, The men of your peace have seduced you and have prevailed against you; your feet have sunk in the mire, and they turned back.
And they shall bring out all your wives and your sons to the Chaldeans. And you shall not escape out of their hand, but shall be seized by the hand of the king of Babylon. And this city shall be burned with fire.
And Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, Let not a man know of these words, and you shall not die.
But if the rulers hear that I have talked with you, and they come to you and say to you, Now tell us what you said to the king; do not hide it from us and we will not put you to death; also, What did the king say to you?
Then you shall say to them, I was presenting my plea before the king, that he should not return me to the house of Jonathan, to die there.
And all the rulers came to Jeremiah and asked him. And he told them according to all these words that the king had ordered. And they were silent with him, for the matter was not heard.
And Jeremiah dwelt in the court of the guardhouse until the day Jerusalem was captured. And he was there when Jerusalem was captured.