The Parables of Salomon the sonne of Dauid King of Israel,
To knowe wisdome, and instruction, to vnderstand ye wordes of knowledge,
To receiue instruction to do wisely, by iustice and iudgement and equitie,
To giue vnto the simple, sharpenesse of wit, and to the childe knowledge and discretion.
A wise man shall heare and increase in learning, and a man of vnderstanding shall attayne vnto wise counsels,
To vnderstand a parable, and the interpretation, the wordes of ye wise, and their darke sayings.
The feare of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge: but fooles despise wisedome and instruction.
My sonne, heare thy fathers instruction, and forsake not thy mothers teaching.
For they shalbe a comely ornament vnto thine head, and as chaines for thy necke.
My sonne, if sinners doe intise thee, consent thou not.
If they say, Come with vs, we will lay waite for blood, and lie priuilie for the innocent without a cause:
We wil swallow them vp aliue like a graue euen whole, as those that goe downe into the pit:
We shall finde all precious riches, and fill our houses with spoyle:
Cast in thy lot among vs: we will all haue one purse:
My sonne, walke not thou in the way with them: refraine thy foote from their path.
For their feete runne to euill, and make haste to shed blood.
Certainely as without cause the net is spred before the eyes of all that hath wing:
So they lay waite for blood and lie priuily for their liues.
Such are the wayes of euery one that is greedy of gaine: he would take away the life of the owners thereof.
Wisdome cryeth without: she vttereth her voyce in the streetes.
She calleth in the hye streete, among the prease in the entrings of the gates, and vttereth her wordes in the citie, saying,
O ye foolish, howe long will ye loue foolishnes? and the scornefull take their pleasure in scorning, and the fooles hate knowledge?
(Turne you at my correction: loe, I will powre out my mind vnto you, and make you vnderstand my wordes)
Because I haue called, and ye refused: I haue stretched out mine hand, and none woulde regarde.
But ye haue despised all my counsell, and would none of my correction.
I will also laugh at your destruction, and mocke, when your feare commeth.
Whe your feare cometh like sudden desolation, and your destruction shall come like a whirle wind: whe affliction and anguish shall come vpon you,
Then shall they call vpon me, but I will not answere: they shall seeke me early, but they shall not finde me,
Because they hated knowledge, and did not chuse the feare of the Lord.
They would none of my counsell, but despised all my correction.
Therefore shall they eate of ye fruite of their owne way, and be filled with their owne deuises.
For ease slaieth the foolish, and the prosperitie of fooles destroyeth them.
But he that obeyeth me, shall dwell safely, and be quiet from feare of euill.