NOW I Paul myself exhort you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who, when present, am indeed lowly among you, but being absent, am bold towards you.
But I pray, that when I am present I may not be bold with the confidence with which I purpose to act resolutely against some who think of us, as if we walked after the flesh.
For though we walk in the flesh, we war not after the flesh:
for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God for the casting down the strong holds of corruption;
laying low proud reasonings, and every high thing which exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and making every thought captive to the obedience of Christ:
and holding ourselves ready to avenge every act of disobedience, when your obedience is fully proved.
Regard ye the things that are personal? If any man is confident in himself that he is Christ’s, let him reflect again in himself, that as he is Christ’s, so are we Christ’s.
Yea, and if I should boast somewhat more highly of our authority, which the Lord hath given us for your edification, and not for your destruction, I shall not be ashamed;
that I may not seem as if I would terrify you by letters.
For his letters indeed, say they, are weighty and forcible, but his bodily presence is feeble, and his speech contemptible.
Let such a man be assured of this, that such as we are by word in our letters when absent, such also will we be in deed when we are present.
For we will not presume to put ourselves on the level, or compare ourselves with some who vaunt themselves; but they measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves with themselves, have no understanding.
But we will not glory in things beyond our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God hath marked out for us―a measure that hath reached even unto you.
For we stretch not our pretensions beyond bounds, as though we reached not unto you; for we have advanced even unto you in the gospel of Christ:
not boasting ourselves unmeasurably in other men’s labours; but having hope that when your faith is increased, we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule for more abundant usefulness,
to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to arrogate glory in another man’s line for things already prepared.
But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
For not he who commendeth himself is approved, but he whom the Lord commendeth.