And early on the first day of the week, while it was yet dark, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.
Then she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them: They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we know not where they have laid him.
Then Peter and the other disciple went out, and came to the tomb.
And the two ran together; and the other disciple outran Peter, and came first to the tomb;
and he stooped down and saw the linen cloths lying, but he did not go in.
Then came Simon Peter, following him; and he went into the tomb, and saw the linen cloths lying,
and the handkerchief that had been on his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded in a place by itself.
Then, therefore, the other disciple, who came first to the tomb, went in, and saw, and believed.
For, as yet, they did not know the scripture, that he must rise from the dead.
Then the disciples went away again by themselves.
But Mary stood without near the tomb, weeping; and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb,
and saw two angels in white raiment, sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the foot, where the body of Jesus had lain.
And they said to her: Woman, why do you weep? She said to them: They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.
Having said this, she turned back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.
Jesus said to her: Woman, why do you weep? Whom do you seek? Supposing that it was the gardener, she said to him: Sir, if you have taken him hence, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away.
Jesus said to her: Mary. She turned, and said to him: Rabboni; which is, translated, Teacher.
Jesus said to her: Touch me not, for I have not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say to them, I ascend to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your God.
Mary Magdalen came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her.
Then, on that day, the first day of the week, when it was evening, and the doors of the house in which the disciples were assembled had been closed for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said to them: Peace be to you.
And having said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples rejoiced, when they saw the Lord.
Then Jesus said to them again: Peace be to you. As my Father has sent me, so I send you.
And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and said to them: Receive the Holy Spirit.
Whosever sins you forgive, they are forgiven them: whosever sins you retain, they are retained.
But Thomas, one of the twelve, who is called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
Then the other disciples said to him: We have seen the Lord. But he said to them: Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger in the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.
And after eight days, again his disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. Then Jesus came, though the doors had been closed, and stood in the midst, and said: Peace be to you.
Then he said to Thomas: Reach hither your finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither your hand, and put it into my side; and be not faithless, but believing.
And Thomas answered and said to him: My Lord and my God.
Jesus said to him: Because you have seen me you have believed: blessed are they who, though they have not seen, yet have believed.
Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book;
but these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life through his name.