Therefore, indeed, seeing that, we also, have encircling us, so great a cloud of witnesses, stripping off every incumbrance and the easily entangling sin, with endurance, let us be running, the race that is lying before us,
Looking away unto our faith’s Princely-leader and perfecter, Jesus,—who, in consideration of the joy lying before him, endured a cross, shame, despising! And, on the right hand of the throne of God, hath taken his seat.
For take ye into consideration—him who hath endured, such contradiction, by sinners against themselves, lest ye be wearied, in your souls becoming exhausted.
Not yet unto blood, have ye resisted, against sin, waging a contest;
And ye have quite forgotten the exhortation which, indeed, with you as with sons, doth reason:—My son! be not slighting the discipline of the Lord, neither be fainting, when by him, thou art reproved;
For, whom the Lord loveth, he doth, discipline, and scourgeth every son whom he doth welcome home.
For the sake of discipline, persevere! As towards sons, God, beareth himself, towards you; for who is a son whom a father doth not discipline?
If however ye are without discipline, whereof, all, have received a share, then, are ye, bastards, and, not sons.
Furthermore, indeed, the fathers of our flesh, we used to have, as administrators of discipline, and we used to pay deference: shall we not, much rather, submit ourselves to the Father of our spirits and, live?
For, they, indeed, for a few days, according to that which seemed good to them, were administering discipline; but, he, unto that which is profitable, with view to our partaking of his holiness:
But, no discipline, for the present, indeed, seemeth to be of joy, but of sorrow: afterwards, however—to them who thereby have been trained, it yieldeth peaceful fruit, of righteousness.
Wherefore, the slackened hands and paralysed knees, restore ye,
And, straight tracks, be making for your feet—that the lame member may not be dislocated, but, be healed rather.
Peace, be pursuing, with all, and the obtaining of holiness,—without which no one shall see the Lord:
Using oversight—lest any one be falling behind from the favour of God,—lest any root of bitterness, springing up above, be causing trouble, and, through it, the many, be defiled:
Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, like Esau,—who, for the sake of one meal, yielded up his own firstborn rights;
For ye know that, afterwards—when he even wished to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for, place of repentance, found he none, even though, with tears, he diligently sought it.
For ye have not approached—unto, a searching and scorching fire, and gloom, and mist, and tempest,
And a trumpets peal,—and a sound of things spoken:—from which they who heard excused themselves, lest there should be added to them, a word;
For they could not bear, that which was being enjoined,—and, should a beast be touching the mountain, it shall be stoned;
And, so fearful was that which was showing itself, Moses, said—I am terrified, and do tremble!
But ye have approached—unto Zion’s mountain, and unto the city of a Living God, a heavenly Jerusalem,—and unto myriads of messengers,
in high festival,—and unto an assembly of firstborn ones, enrolled in the heavens,—and unto God, judge of all,—and unto the spirits of righteous ones made perfect,—
And unto the mediator of a new covenant, Jesus,—and unto the blood of sprinkling, more excellently speaking, than, Abel.
Beware, lest ye excuse yourselves from him that speaketh; for, if, they escaped not, who excused themselves from him who on earth was warning, how much less, shall, we, who from him that warneth from the heavens, do turn ourselves away:
Whose voice shook the earth, then, but, now, hath he promised, saying—Yet once for all, I, will shake—not only the earth, but, also the heaven.
But, the saying, Yet once for all, maketh clear the removal of the things which can be shaken, as of things done with,—that they may remain, which cannot be shaken.
Wherefore, seeing that, of a kingdom not to be shaken, we are receiving possession, let us have gratitude—whereby we may be rendering divine service well-pleasingly unto God, with reverence and awe;
For, even our God, is a consuming fire.