NOW with regard to those things concerning which ye have written unto me, it were good for a man not to touch a woman.
But because of the whoredoms, let every man have his own wife, and every wife her own husband.
Let the husband render to the wife due benevolence, and in like manner also the wife to the husband.
The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband: in like manner also the husband has not power over his own body, but the wife.
Defraud not one another, except it may be by consent occasionally, that ye may have more leisure for fasting and prayer; and come together again, lest Satan tempt you through your incontinence.
But in this I speak my opinion only, not authoritatively.
For I would that all men were even as myself: but every man hath his peculiar gift from God, one of this sort, and another of that.
I say then to the unmarried and the widows, that it is becoming them if they abide as I am.
But if they have not the gift of continence, let them marry: for it is better to marry than to burn.
But to the married not I command, but the Lord, That the wife be not separated from the husband:
and even if she should be separated, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband: and let not the husband put away his wife.
But to the others I speak, not the Lord, If any brother hath a wife unbelieving, yet she chuseth to dwell with him, let him not put her away.
And the wife which hath a husband not a believer, and he chuses to dwell with her, let her not put him away.
For the husband that believeth not is sanctified by the wife, and the wife who believeth not is sanctified by the husband: else indeed your children were unclean, but now are they holy.
But if the unbelieving person depart, let him depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in these cases, but God hath called us unto peace.
For how knowest thou, O wife, but thou shalt save thy husband? and how knowest thou, O husband, but thou shalt save thy wife?
Nevertheless as God has bestowed the gift on every man as the Lord hath called every man, so let him walk, and so I give command in all the churches.
Is any man called being circumcised? let him not affect uncircumcision. Is any man called in uncircumcision? let him not be circumcised.
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the observance of the commandments of God.
Let every one abide in the calling in which he is called.
Art thou called being a slave? let it give thee no concern; but if thou canst also obtain thy freedom, rather make use of it.
For he that is called in the Lord, being a slave, is the Lord’s freed man: in like manner also, he that is called, being a free man, is the servant of Christ.
Have you been redeemed with a price? become not the slaves of men.
Let every one, brethren, in the vocation wherein he is called, therein abide with God.
Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord; but I offer my opinion, as having obtained mercy from the Lord to be faithful.
I think then that this is becoming, considering our present straits, that it is proper for a man to be thus.
Art thou bound to a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife.
But if thou shouldst marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned; though such will have tribulation in the flesh; but I spare you.
Now this I say, brethren, that the time is short. The conclusion is, that even they who have wives, should be as though they had not;
and they who weep as though they wept not; and they who rejoice as though they rejoiced not; and they that purchase as though they possessed not;
and they who use this world, as not abusing it: for the fashion of this world passeth away.
But I would have you to be free from anxiety. He who is unmarried is anxious for the things of the Lord, how he shall please the Lord:
but he who is married is anxious about the things of the world, how he shall please his wife.
A wife and a virgin hath different pursuits: the unmarried woman is anxious about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit; but the married woman is anxious about the things of the world, how she shall please her husband.
Now I say this for your own advantage, and not that I should lay a snare in your way, but as what is seemly, and that you may wait on the Lord without distraction.
But if a person supposes it would be unseemly for a virgin of his if she should pass the flower of her age in celibacy, and that duty directs it should be so, let him do as he is inclined, he doth not sin: let such marry.
But he that is stedfast in his heart, not having any necessity, but retaineth power over his own inclination, and hath determined this in his heart that he will preserve his own virgin state, doeth well.
Wherefore though he who giveth in marriage doeth well, yet he who avoids a matrimonial connection, doeth better.
The wife is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth: but if her husband be dead, she is free to be married to whomsoever she will, but only in the Lord.
But she is more blessed if she abide as she is, in my opinion: and I think I have the spirit of God.