Now, Joseph, was taken down to Egypt,—and Potiphar, courtier of Pharaoh, chief of the royal executioners, an Egyptian bought him, at the hand of the Ishmaelites, who had brought him down thither.
And it came to pass that Yahweh, was with Joseph, so that he became a prosperous man,—and was in the house of his lord the Egyptian.
And his lord saw, that, Yahweh, was with him—and that whatsoever, he was doing, Yahweh, was causing to prosper in his hand.
So Joseph found favour in his eyes and waited upon him,—and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had, gave he into his hand.
And it came to pass from the time that he made him overseer in his house and over all that he had, that Yahweh blessed the house of the Egyptian, for Joseph’s sake,—yea it came to pass, that the blessing of Yahweh, was with all that he had, in the house and in the field;
so that he left all that he had in the hand of Joseph, and took note with him of nothing, save only the bread which, he himself, was eating. And so it was that Joseph was comely in form and comely in countenance.
And it came to pass after these things, that his lord’s wife lifted up her eyes unto Joseph,—and she said—Come! lie with me.
And he refused and said unto his lord’s wife, Lo! my lord, taketh no note with me as to what is in the house,—but, all that pertaineth to him, hath he delivered into my hand:
There is no one greater in this house than I, neither hath he withheld from me anything, save only thyself in that thou, art his wife,—how, then could I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?
And it came to pass, that although she Spake unto Joseph day after day, yet hearkened he not unto her to lie beside her to be with her.
And it came to pass, when, on a certain day, he went into the house to attend to his business,—and there was no man of the household, there in the house,
that she caught him by his garment, saying—Come! lie with me. Then left he his garment in her hand, and fled and gat forth outside,
And it came to pass when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand,—and fled forth outside,
that she cried out to the men of her house and spake to them, saying, Look ye! he hath brought in to us a Hebrew man to insult us,—He came in unto me, to lie with me, so I cried out with a loud voice.
And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted high my voice, and cried out, then left he his garment beside me, and fled and gat forth outside.
So she laid by his garment beside her,—until his lord should come into his house,
Then spake she unto him, according to these words, saying,—He hath been in unto me—the Hebrew servant whom thou didst bring in to us—to insult me.
And it came to pass when I lifted high my voice and cried out, then left he his garment beside me, and fled outside.
And it came to pass, when his lord heard the words of his wife which she spake unto him saying, According to these words, hath thy servant done to me, Then was kindled his anger.
So Joseph’s lord took him and delivered him up to the prison,: the place where, the prisoners of the king, were imprisoned,—so he was there, in the prison.
And it came to pass that, Yahweh, was with Joseph, and extended unto him lovingkindness,—and gave him his favour in the eyes of the chief of the prison.
So the chief of the prison delivered up, into Joseph’s hand all the prisoners who were in the prison,—and of all that was doing there, he, was the doer.
After nothing, was the chief of the prison looking, of whatever was in his hand,—in that Yahweh, was with him, and whatsoever, he was doing, Yahweh, was causing to prosper.