There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
This man came to Jesus by night, and said to him: Rabbi, we know that thou hast come as a teacher from God; for no man can do these signs which thou doest, unless God be with him.
Jesus answered and said to him: Verily, verily I say to you, unless a man be born again, he can not see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus said to him: How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter his mother’s womb the second time, and be born?
Jesus answered: Verily, verily I say to you, unless a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he can not enter into the kingdom of God.
That which is begotten of the flesh, is flesh; and that which is begotten of the Spirit, is spirit.
Wonder not that I said to you, you must all be born again,
The Spirit breathes where he pleases, and you hear his voice, but you know not whence he comes, and whither he goes; so is every one that is begotten of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said to him: How can these things be?
Jesus answered and said to him: Are you the teacher of Israel, and do not understand these things?
Verily, verily, I say to you, we speak that which we know, and testify to that which we have seen; and you receive not our testimony.
If I have told you of earthly things, and you believe not, how will you believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?
And no man has ascended into heaven, but he who came down from heaven, the Son of man, who is in heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up;
that whoever believes on him may not perish, but have eternal life.
For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes on him should not perish, but have eternal life.
For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world, through him, might be saved.
He that believes on him is not condemned; but he that believes not is condemned already, because he has not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation, that light has come into the world, and men have loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.
For every one that does evil, hates the light, and comes not to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed.
But he that does the truth, comes to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest that they are done in God.
After these things, Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea, and he remained there with them, and immersed.
And John also was immersing in Ænon, near Salim, because there was much water there. And they came and were immersed;
for John had not yet been thrown into prison.
There arose, therefore, a dispute between some of John’s disciples and a Jew, about purification.
And they came to John, and said to him: Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you bore testimony, behold, he immerses, and all are going to him.
John answered and said: A man can receive nothing unless it be given to him from heaven.
You yourselves will testify for me, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.
He that has the bride, is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly on account of the voice of the bridegroom. This, my joy, is therefore complete.
He must increase, but I must decrease.
He that comes from above, is over all. He that is from the earth, is from the earth, and speaks from the earth. He that comes from heaven, is over all;
and what he has seen and heard, this he testifies; and no one receives his testimony.
He that has received his testimony has solemnly declared that God is true.
For he whom God has sent, speaks the words of God; for God gives not the Spirit by measure to him.
The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into his hand.
He that believes on the Son has eternal life. But he that believes not the Son, shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.