Be you, therefore, imitators of God, as beloved children;
and walk in love, as the Christ also loved us, and gave himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet odor.
But lewdness, and all manner of uncleanness, or covetousness, let them not be named among you, as it becomes saints;
nor obscene language, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not becoming; but rather the cheerful words of a thankful heart.
For you know this, that no lewd nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of the Christ and of God.
Let no one deceive you with vain words: for on account of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.
Therefore, be not partakers with them.
For you were formerly darkness; but now you are light in the Lord: walk as children of light;
(for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth;)
learning what is acceptable to the Lord;
and do not participate in the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them;
for it is a shame even to speak of the things that are done by them in secret.
But all these works, when reproved, are made manifest by the light: for every thing that makes manifest is light.
Wherefore, the scripture says: Awake you that sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light.
See, then, that you walk circumspectly, not as unwise, but as wise men,
redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
Wherefore, be not ignorant, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
And be not drunk with wine, in which is debauchery; but be filled with the Spirit;
speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord,
giving thanks to our God and Father always for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;
being subject one to another in the fear of God.
Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord:
for the husband is the head of the wife, as the Christ also is the head of the church; and he is the savior of the body.
But as the church is subject to the Christ, so, also, let the wives be subject to their own husbands in every thing.
Husbands, love your wives, as the Christ also loved the church, and delivered himself up for it,
that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it by the bath of water through the word,
in order that he might present it to himself a glorious church, having neither stain, nor wrinkle, nor any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.
So ought men to love their own wives as their own bodies. He that loves his wife loves himself;
for no one ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Christ the church:
because we are members of his body, being of his flesh, and of his bones.
For this cause a man shall leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.
Great is this mystery; but I speak of Christ and of the church.
But yet, let each one of you so love his wife as himself; and let the wife see that she reverence her husband.