And Moses answered and said, And, behold, they will not believe me and will not listen to my voice. For they will say, Jehovah has not appeared to you.
And Jehovah said to him, What is this in your hand? And he said, A staff.
And He said, Throw it to the ground. And he threw it to the ground, and it became a snake. And Moses fled before it.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Send out your hand and take it by the tail. And he sent out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand;
so that they may believe that Jehovah the God of their fathers has appeared to you, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
And Jehovah said to him again, Now put your hand into your bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom, and he brought it out, and, behold, his hand was leprous like snow.
And He said, Put your hand back into your bosom. And he put his hand back into his bosom, and he brought it out from his bosom; and, behold, it had turned like his flesh!
And it shall be, if they will not believe you and will not listen to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the latter sign.
And it shall be, if they will not believe these two signs also, and will not listen to your voice, you shall take of the water of the Nile and pour it on the dry land. And the water which you take from the Nile shall become blood on the dry land.
And Moses said to Jehovah, O Lord, I am not a man of words, either from yesterday or the third day, nor since You have been speaking to Your bondslave. For I am slow of mouth and slow of tongue.
And Jehovah said to him, Who has made man's mouth? Or who makes the dumb, or the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? is it not I, Jehovah?
And now go, and I will be with your mouth, and will teach you what you shall speak.
And he said, O Lord, please send by the hand of him whom You will send.
And the anger of Jehovah glowed against Moses. And He said, Do I not know your brother, Aaron the Levite, that he can speak well? And, behold, he also is coming out to meet you, and he will see you and be glad in his heart.
And you shall speak to him, and you shall put the words in his mouth. And I will be with your mouth, and with his mouth, and I will teach you what you shall do.
And he shall speak for you to the people. And it shall be, he shall be a mouth for you, and you shall be a god for him.
And you shall take this staff in your hand by which you do the signs.
And Moses went and returned to his father-in-law Jethro, and said to him, Please let me go and return to my brothers who are in Egypt, and see whether they are still alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace.
And Jehovah said to Moses in Midian, Go! Return to Egypt. For all the men are dead, those seeking your life.
And Moses took his wife and his sons and made them ride on an ass. And he returned to the land of Egypt. And Moses took the staff of God in his hand.
And Jehovah said to Moses, As you go to return to Egypt, see all the wonders which I have put in your hand, and do them before Pharaoh. And I will harden his heart, and he will not send the people away.
And you shall speak to Pharaoh, So says Jehovah, My son, My first-born is Israel.
And I said to you, Send My son away, and let him serve Me; and you refused to send him. Behold, I am about to kill your son, your first-born!
And it happened on the way, in the lodging place, Jehovah met him and sought to kill him.
And Zipporah took a stone and cut off her son's foreskin, and caused it to touch his feet. And she said, You are a bridegroom of bloods to me.
And He pulled back from him. Then she said, A bridegroom of bloods, for the circumcision.
And Jehovah said to Aaron, Go to the wilderness to meet Moses. And he went and met him in the mountain of God; and he kissed him.
And Moses told Aaron all the words of Jehovah with which He had sent him, and all the signs which He had commanded him.
And Moses and Aaron went on and gathered all the elders of the sons of Israel.
And Aaron spoke all the words which Jehovah had spoken to Moses. And he did the signs before the people.
And the people believed. And they heard that Jehovah had visited the sons of Israel, and that He had seen their affliction. And they bowed and worshiped.