So Jacob dwelt in the land of the sojournings of his father,—in the land of Canaan.
These, are the generations of Jacob—Joseph, when seventeen years old, was shepherding with his brethren among the flocks, and, he, being a youth, was with the sons of Bilhah and with the sons of Zilpah wives of his father,—so then Joseph brought in the talk about them—something bad, unto their father.
Now, Israel, loved Joseph more than any of his sons, because he was to him, the son of his old age, and he had made him, a long tunic.
So his brethren saw that their father loved him, more than any of his brethren, and they hated him, and could not bid him prosper,
And Joseph dreamed a dream, and told it to his brethren, and they went on yet more to hate him.
And he said unto them, Hear ye I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:
Lo! then, we, were binding sheaves in the midst of the field, when lo my sheaf rose up, yea and took its stand,—and lo! round about came your sheaves, and bowed themselves down to my sheaf.
And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou, reign, over us, shalt thou, have dominion over us? So they went on yet more to hate him, because of his dreams and because of his words.
Then dreamed he, yet another, dream, and related it to his brethren, and said:—Lo! I have dreamed a dream, yet again, Lo! then, the sun and the moon, and eleven stars, were bowing themselves down to me.
So he related it unto his father, and unto his brethren,—and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream which thou hast dreamed? Shall we, indeed come in, I, and thy mother and thy brethren, to bow ourselves down to thee to the earth?
Then were his brethren jealous of him, but his father, marked the word.
Now his brethren went their way,—to feed their father’s flock in Shechem.
So Israel said unto Joseph Are not, thy brethren, feeding the flock in Shechem? Come on! and let me send thee unto them. And he said to him Behold me!
So he said to him—Go, I pray thee, look after the welfare of thy brethren, and the welfare of the flock, and bring me back word. And he sent him from the vale of Hebron, and he came in towards Shechem.
And a man found him, and lo! he was wandering about in the field, so the man asked him saying—What seekest thou?
And he said, My brethren, am, I, seeking,—do tell me, I pray thee, where they are feeding their flock.
And the man said, They have broken up from hence, for I heard them saying Let us go our way towards Dothan. So Joseph went after his brethren, and found them, in Dothan.
And they saw him afar off,—and, ere yet he drew near unto them, they conspired against him, to put him to death.
And they said each man unto his brother, Lo! that master of dreams yonder, coming in!
Now, therefore, come! let us slay him and cast him into one of the pits, and we will say A cruel beast, hath devoured him,—And let us see what will become of his dreams.
And Reuben heard it, and rescued him out of their hand, and said Let us not smite him, so as to take his life!
And Reuben said unto them Do not shed blood! Cast him into this pit, which is in the wilderness, but put not forth, a hand, against him! that he might rescue him out of their hand, to restore him unto his father.
So it came to pass, when Joseph had come in unto his brethren, that they stript Joseph of his tunic, the long tunic which was upon him,
and took him, and cast him into the pit, but the pit, was empty, there was in it no water.
And when they had sat down to eat bread, they lifted up their eyes and looked, and lo! a caravan of Ishmaelites, coming in from Gilead,—and, their camels, were bearing tragacanth gum, and balsam and cistus-gum, they were going their way, to take them down to Egypt.
So Judah said unto his brethren,—What profit that we slay our brother, and conceal his blood?
Come and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites; but let not, our own hand, be upon him, for our own brother, our own flesh, is he And his brethren hearkened.
And there passed by certain Midianites travelling merchants, so they drew forth and uplifted Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites, for twenty pieces of silver,—and they brought Joseph into Egypt.
And Reuben returned unto the pit, and lo Joseph was not in the pit, so he rent his clothes;
and returned unto his brethren, and said,—The, lad, is not! And, I, oh where can I, go?
And they took Joseph’s tunic,—and slaughtered a buck of the goats, and dipped the tunic in the blood;
and sent the long tunic and brought it in unto their father, and said This, have we found! Examine, we pray thee, whether it is the tunic of thy son, or not!
So he examined it, and said—The tunic of my son! A cruel beast hath devoured him,—torn in pieces—torn in pieces, is Joseph!
And Jacob rent his garments, and put sackcloth upon his loins,—and mourned over his son many days.
And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to console him but he refused to be consoled, and said—Surely I will go down unto my son mourning to hades! And his father wept for him.
Now, the Midianites, sold him into Egypt,—to Potiphar courtier of Pharaoh, chief of the royal executioners.