Paul, apostle (not from men neither through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead)
and all the brethren who are with me, unto the churches of Galatia:
Grace [be] unto you and peace from God the Father and [from] our Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
unto whom [be] the glory for the ages of the ages. Amen.
I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel,
for there is not another; but there are some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of the Christ.
But [even] if we, or an angel from heaven, were to preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be anathema.
As we said before, so do I say now again, If anyone preaches any other gospel unto you than what ye have received, let him be anathema.
For do I now persuade men or God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.
But I make known unto you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not according to man.
For I did not received it nor learn it from man, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.
For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in Judaism, how that beyond measure I was persecuting and destroying the church of God
And profited in Judaism above many of my equals in my own nation, being exceedingly more zealous of the traditions of my fathers.
But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb and called [me] by his grace,
to reveal his Son in me that I might preach him among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went into Arabia and returned again unto Damascus.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter and abode with him fifteen days.
But I saw none of the other apostles, except James the Lord's brother.
Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God, I do not lie.
Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia
and was unknown by face unto the churches of Judaea which were in Christ,
but they had only heard, That he who persecuted us in time past now preaches the faith which he once destroyed.
And they glorified God in me.: