And all the people of Judah took Uzziah; and he was a son of sixteen years; and made him king instead of his father Amaziah.
He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after the king lay with his fathers.
Uzziah was a son of sixteen years when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty two years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
And he did the right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that his father Amaziah did.
And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the visions of God; and in the days he sought Jehovah, God made him prosper.
And he went out and fought with the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod, and built cities around Ashdod, and among the Philistines.
And God helped him against the Philistines and against the Arabians who lived in Gurbaal, and the Meunim.
And the Ammonites paid tribute to Uzziah; and his name spread abroad to the entrance of Egypt; for he became exceedingly strong.
And Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, and at the Valley Gate, and at the Turning, and fortified them.
And he built towers in the wilderness, and dug many wells, for he had many cattle, both in the low country and in the plain; also he had farmers and vinedressers in the mountains, and in Carmel; for he was a lover of the earth.
And Uzziah had an army making war, going out to the battle by troops, according to the number of their account by the. hand of Jeiel the scribe, and Maaseiah the superintendent under the hand of Hananiah, of the king's leaders.
The whole number of the heads of the fathers of the mighty men was two thousand, six hundred.
And under their hand was a powerful army, three hundred and seven thousand, five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy.
And Uzziah prepared for them, for all the army, shields and spears and helmets, and breastplates, and bows, even to stones for the slings.
And he made engines in Jerusalem, the inventions of skillful men, to be on the towers and on the corners, with which to shoot arrows and great stones. And his name spread far abroad; for he was wonderfully helped until he was strong.
And when he became strong, his heart was lifted up to act corruptly; and he trespassed against Jehovah his God, and went in to the temple of Jehovah to burn incense on the altar of incense.
And Azariah the priest went in after him, and eighty priests of Jehovah with him, sons of valor;
and they stood up against Uzziah the king, and said to him, It is not for you, O Uzziah, to burn incense to Jehovah, but to the priests, the sons of Aaron, who are sanctified to burn incense; go out of the sanctuary, for you have trespassed; and it is not to your honor from Jehovah God.
And Uzziah was angry, and in his hand was a censer to burn incense; and when he was angry with the priests, the leprosy rose in his forehead, before the priests, in the house of Jehovah, beside the altar of incense.
And Azariah the head priest and all the priests turned toward him, and behold, he was leprous in his forehead. And they hurried him from there, and he also himself hurried to leave, for Jehovah had touched him.
And Uzziah the king was a leper to the day of his death, and lived in a separate house as a leper, for he had been cut off from the house of Jehovah; and his son Jotham was over the king's house, judging the people of the land.
And the rest of the acts of Uzziah, the first and the last, Isaiah the son of Amoz, the prophet, has written.
And Uzziah lay with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the field of the burying place that the kings had; for they said, He is a leper. And his son Jotham reigned in his place.