He who is wounded, crushed, or who has his male member cut off, shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD.
A bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD. Even to his tenth generation he shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD.
An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD. Even to their tenth generation they shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD forever,
because they did not meet you with bread and with water in the way when you came forth out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor, of Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you.
But the LORD your God would not listen to Balaam, but the LORD your God turned the curse to a blessing to you, because the LORD your God loved you.
You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever.
You shall not despise an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not despise an Egyptian, because you were a stranger in his land.
The sons that are born to them shall enter into the congregation of the LORD in their third generation.
When the army goes forth against your enemies, then keep yourself from every wicked thing.
If there is among you any man who is not clean because of an accident at night, then he shall go outside the camp. He shall not come inside the camp.
And it shall be as evening turns, he shall wash with water. And when the sun is down, he shall come into the the middle of the camp.
You shall also have a place outside the camp where you shall go forth.
And you shall have a paddle on your weapon. And it shall be, when you sit down outside, you shall dig with it, and shall turn back and cover that which comes from you.
For the LORD your God walks in the middle of your camp, to deliver you and to give up your enemies before you. Therefore your camp shall be holy, so that He may see no unclean thing in you and turn away from you.
You shall not deliver to his master the servant who has escaped from his master to you.
He shall live with you, among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of your gates, where it seems good to him. You shall not oppress him.
There shall be no harlot of the daughters of Israel, nor a sodomite of the sons of Israel.
You shall not bring the hire of a harlot, or the price of a dog, into the house of the LORD your God for any vow. For even both these are hateful to the LORD your God.
You shall not lend for interest to your brother, interest of silver, interest of food, interest of anything that is loaned on interest.
You may lend on interest to a stranger, but you shall not lend on interest to your brother, so that the LORD your God may bless you in all that you set your hand to in the land where you go to possess it.
When you shall vow a vow to the LORD your God, you shall not wait to pay it, for the LORD your God will surely require it of you, and it would be sin in you.
But if you shall cease to vow, it shall be no sin in you.
That which has gone out of your lips you shall keep and perform, even a free-will offering, according as you have vowed to the LORD your God, which you have promised with your mouth.
When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, then you may eat grapes to your fill at your own pleasure, but you shall not put any in your vessel.
When you come into the standing grain of your neighbor, then you may pluck the heads with your hand, but you shall not move a sickle into your neighbor's standing grain.