Observe the month of Abib, and keep the Passover to Jehovah thy God, for in the month of Abib Jehovah thy God brought thee forth out of Egypt by night.
And thou shall sacrifice the Passover to Jehovah thy God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which Jehovah shall choose to cause his name to dwell there.
Thou shall eat no leavened bread with it. Seven days thou shall eat unleavened bread with it, even the bread of affliction, for thou came forth out of the land of Egypt in haste, that thou may remember the day when thou came forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of thy life.
And there shall be no leaven seen with thee in all thy borders seven days. Neither shall any of the flesh, which thou sacrifice the first day at evening, remain all night until the morning.
Thou may not sacrifice the Passover within any of thy gates, which Jehovah thy God gives thee,
but at the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose to cause his name to dwell in, there thou shall sacrifice the Passover at evening, at the going down of the sun, at the season that thou came forth out of Egypt.
And thou shall roast and eat it in the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose, and thou shall turn in the morning, and go to thy tents.
Six days thou shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to Jehovah thy God. Thou shall do no work.
Thou shall number to thee seven weeks. From the time thou begin to put the sickle to the standing grain thou shall begin to number seven weeks.
And thou shall keep the feast of weeks to Jehovah thy God with a tribute of a freewill offering from thy hand, which thou shall give, according as Jehovah thy God blesses thee.
And thou shall rejoice before Jehovah thy God, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, and thy maid-servant, and the Levite who is within thy gates, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are in the midst of thee, in the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose to cause his name to dwell there,
and thou shall remember that thou were a bondman in Egypt. And thou shall observe and do these statutes.
Thou shall keep the feast of tabernacles seven days after thou have gathered in from thy threshing-floor and from thy winepress.
And thou shall rejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, and thy maid-servant, and the Levite, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within thy gates.
Seven days thou shall keep a feast to Jehovah thy God in the place which Jehovah shall choose, because Jehovah thy God will bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the work of thy hands, and thou shall be altogether joyful.
Three times in a year all thy males shall appear before Jehovah thy God in the place which he shall choose: in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles. And they shall not appear before Jehovah empty.
Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of Jehovah thy God which he has given thee.
Thou shall make judges and officers for thee in all thy gates, which Jehovah thy God gives thee, according to thy tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment.
Thou shall not distort justice. Thou shall not respect persons, neither shall thou take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise, and perverts the words of the righteous.
Thou shall follow that which is altogether just, that thou may live, and inherit the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee.
Thou shall not plant for thee an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the altar of Jehovah thy God, which thou shall make for thee.
Neither shall thou set up a pillar for thee, which Jehovah thy God hates.