Let a man, so, be reckoning of us, as officers of Christ, and stewards of sacred secrets of God.
Here, furthermore, it is sought in stewards, that, faithful, one be found.
With me, however, it counteth for the very smallest thing, that, by you, I should be examined, or by a human day. Nay! I am not even examining myself,
For, of nothing, to myself, am I conscious: nevertheless, not hereby, am I declared righteous, but, he that doth examine me, is the Lord.
So then, not before the fitting time, be judging anything,—until the Lord shall come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and make manifest the counsels of the hearts; and, then, the praise shall come to each one, from God.
But, these things, brethren, have I transferred unto myself and Apollos, for your sakes, that, in us, ye might learn [the lesson] —Not beyond the things that are written…! that ye do not puff yourselves up, individually, for this one against that.
For who maketh thee to differ? and what hast thou which thou didst not receive? But, if thou didst even receive it, why dost thou boast, as though thou hadst not received it?
Already, ye have become full, already, ye are become rich,—apart from us, ye are become kings! And I would indeed ye had become kings, that, we also, with you, might have together become kings!
For I think that, God, hath set forth, us the apostles, to be last of all, as men devoted to death,—in that, a spectacle, have we been made, unto the world,—both unto messengers and unto men.
We, are foolish for Christ’s sake, but, ye, prudent in Christ; we are weak, but, ye, mighty; ye, all-glorious, but, we, dishonoured.
Until the present hour, we both hunger and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and are wanderers,
And toil, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless, being persecuted, we hold on,
Being defamed, we beseech: as the sweepings of the world have we become, the offscouring of all—until even now.
Not, to shame you, write I these things; but, as my beloved children, I admonish you.
For, though myriads of tutors ye should have in Christ, yet not many fathers; for, in Christ Jesus, through means of the joyful message, I, begat you.
I beseech you, therefore,—become imitators of me.
For this cause, sent I unto you, Timothy,—who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who shall put, you, in mind of my ways which are in Christ [Jesus], even as, everywhere, in every assembly, I teach.
But, as though I were not coming unto you, some are puffed up!
Howbeit, I will come quickly unto you,—if, the Lord, please,—and will get to know—not the speech of them who are puffed up, but, the power;
For, not in speech, is the kingdom of God, but, in power.
What will ye? that, with a rod, I should come unto you? or, with love, and a spirit of meekness?