And to the angel of the church in Sardis, write: These things says the One having the seven spirits of God, and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have the name that you live, and are dead.
Be watching, and establish the things left, which are about to die. For I have not found your works being fulfilled before God.
Then remember how you received and heard, and keep, and repent. If, then, you do not watch, I will come upon you like a thief and you will not at all know what hour I come upon you.
You also have a few names in Sardis which did not defile their robes, and they shall walk with Me in white because they are worthy.
The one overcoming, this one shall be clothed in white garments, and I will not at all blot his name out of the Book of Life; and I will acknowledge his name before My Father, and before His angels.
The one who has an ear, hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia, write: These things says the Holy One, the True One, the One having "the key of David," "the One opening, and no one shuts; and shuts, and no one opens:" Isa. 22:22
I know your works. Behold, I have given a door being opened before you, and no one is able to shut it, for you have a little power and have kept My word, and have not denied My name.
Behold, I give out of the synagogue of Satan those saying themselves to be Jews, and they are not, but they lie. Behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and they shall know that I loved you.
Because you kept the word of My patience, I also will keep you out of the hour of trial which is going to come on all the habitable world in order to try those dwelling on the earth.
Behold, I am coming quickly. Hold what you have that no one take your crown.
The one overcoming, I will make him a pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall not go out any more. And I will write the name of My God on him, and the name of the city of My God, the new Jerusalem which comes down out of Heaven from My God, and My new name.
The one who has an ear, hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
And to the angel of the church of Laodicea, write: These things says the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the Head of the creation of God:
I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I would that you were cold, or hot.
So, because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I am about to vomit you out of My mouth.
Because you say, I am rich, and I am made rich, and I have need of nothing, and do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked.
I advise you to buy from Me gold having been fired by fire, that you may be rich; and white garments, that you may be clothed, and your shame and nakedness may not be revealed. And anoint your eyes with eye salve, that you may see.
I, as many "as I love, I rebuke and I chasten." Be zealous, then, and repent. Prov. 3:12
Behold, I stand at the door and knock: If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will enter to him, and I will dine with him, and he with Me.
The one overcoming, I will give to him to sit with Me in My throne, as I also overcame and sat with My Father in His throne.
The one who has an ear, hear what the Spirit says to the churches.