Then let us fear lest in any way a promise having been left to enter into His rest, that any of you may seem to come short.
For, indeed, we have had the gospel preached to us , even as they also; but the word did not profit those hearing it , not having been mixed with faith in the ones who heard.
For we, the ones believing, enter into the rest, even as He said, "As I swore in My wrath, they shall not enter into My rest," though the works had come into being from the foundation of the world. LXX-Psa. 94:11, MT-Psa. 95:11
For He has spoken somewhere about the seventh day this way, "And God rested from all His works in the seventh day." Gen. 2:2
And in this place again, "They shall not enter into My rest." LXX-Psa. 94:11; MT-Psa. 95:11
Therefore, since it remains for some to enter into it, and those who formerly had the gospel preached did not enter in on account of disobedience,
He again marks out a certain day, saying in David, Today (after so long a time, according as He has said), "Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts." LXX-Psa. 94:7, 8; MT-Psa. 95:7, 8
For if Joshua gave them rest, then He would not have afterwards spoken about another day.
So, then, there remains a sabbath rest to the people of God.
For he entering into His rest, he himself also rested from His works, as God had rested from His own. LXX-Psa. 95:11, Gen. 2:2
Therefore, let us exert ourselves to enter into that rest, that not anyone fall in the same example of disobedience.
For the word of God is living, and powerfully working, and sharper than every two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of both soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge of the thoughts and intentions of the heart;
and there is no creature unrevealed before Him; but all things are naked and laid open to His eyes, with whom is our account.
Then having a great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
For we do not have a high priest not being able to sympathize with our weaknesses but One having been tried in all respects according to our likeness, apart from sin.
Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and we may find grace for help in time of need.