FOR the kingdom of heaven is like a man, the master of a family, who went out at break of day, to hire labourers into his vineyard.
And when he had agreed with the labourers at a denarius a day, he sent them into the vineyard.
And going out about the third hour, he saw others standing in the market place unemployed.
And he said to them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatever is equitable, I will give it you. So they went.
Again going out, about the sixth and ninth hour, he did after the same manner.
But about the eleventh hour, going out, he found others standing unemployed, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle?
They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith to them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatever is equitable, ye shall receive.
Now when the evening came, the master of the vineyard said to his overseer, Call the labourers, and give them their wages, beginning from the last to the first.
And when they came, who began about the eleventh hour, they received each a denarius.
But when the first came, they expected that they should receive more; and they also received every man a denarius.
But when they received it, they murmured against the master of the family:
saying, These last have wrought only a single hour, and thou hast put them on an equality with us, who have borne the burden and heat of the day.
But he answering, said to one of them, Friend, I do thee no injustice; did I not agree with thee for a denarius?
Take then thine own, and begone: I chuse to give to this last even as to thee.
Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my own? Is thine eye evil, because I am good?
Thus shall the last be first, and the first last; for many are called, but the elect are few.
And Jesus going up to Jerusalem, took his twelve disciples aside on the road, and said to them;
Lo! we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes, and they shall condemn him to death,
and shall deliver him to the Gentiles, to insult, and to scourge, and to crucify: and the third day he shall rise again.
Then came to him the mother of Zebedee’s children, with her sons, paying him obeisance, and petitioning a favour of him.
Then he said to her, What is thy wish? She saith unto him, Tell me that these my two sons shall sit, the one at thy right hand, and the other at thy left, in thy kingdom.
Then Jesus answering said, Ye know not what ye ask. Can ye drink of the cup that I am going to drink, and be baptised with the baptism with which I am baptised? They say unto him, We are able.
And he saith unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of my cup, and with the baptism with which I am baptised, shall ye be baptised; but to sit on my right hand, and on my left, it is not in my power to bestow, but on those, for whom it was prepared by my Father.
And the twelve, on hearing this, were filled with indignation against the two brethren.
But Jesus, calling them to him, said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority among them.
But thus shall it not be with you. But whosoever will be a great man among you, let him be your servant;
and whosoever will be first, let him be your slave.
Even as the Son of man came not to be waited upon, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.
And as they were going out of Jericho, a great multitude followed him.
And, behold, two blind men sat by the road side, who hearing that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, son of David!
And the multitude checked them, that they should be silent; but they cried out the more, Have mercy on us, Lord, son of David.
And Jesus standing called them, and said, What desire ye, that I should do for you?
They say unto him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
Then Jesus, moved with compassion, touched their eyes; and immediately their eyes recovered sight, and they followed him.