And they came to Ecbatana, and arrived at the house of Raguel. But Sarah met them; and she saluted them, and they her; and she brought them into the house.
And he said to Edna his wife, How like is the young man to Tobit my cousin.
And Raguel asked them, From whence are you⌃, brethren? And they said to him, We are of the sons of Naphtali, which are captives in Nineveh.
And he said to them, Know you⌃ Tobit our brother? But they said, We know him. And he said to them, Is he in good health?
But they said, He is both alive, and in good health: and Tobias said, He is my father.
And Raguel sprang up, and kissed him, and wept,
and blessed him, and said to him, You are the son of an honest and good man. And when he had heard that Tobit had lost his sight, he was grieved, and wept;
and Edna his wife and Sarah his daughter wept. And they received them gladly; and they killed a ram of the flock, and set store of meat before them.
But Tobias said to Raphael, Brother Azarias, speak of those things of which you did talk in the way, and let the matter be finished.
And he communicated the thing to Raguel: and Raguel said to Tobias, Eat and drink, and make merry:
for it appertains to you to take my child. Howbeit I will show you the truth.
I have given my child to seven men, and whenever they came in to her, they died in the night. But for the present be merry. And Tobias said, I will taste nothing here, until you⌃ make covenant and enter into covenant with me.
And Raguel said, Take her to yourself from henceforth according to the manner: you are her brother, and she is your: but the merciful God shall give all good success to you.
And he called his daughter Sarah, and took her by the hand, and gave her to be wife to Tobias, and said, Behold, take her to yourself after the law of Moses, and lead her away to your father. And he blessed them;
And he called Edna his wife, and took a book, and wrote an instrument, and sealed it.
And they began to eat.

And Raguel called his wife Edna, and said to her, Sister, prepare the other chamber, and bring her in there.
And she did as he bade her, and brought her in there: and she wept, and she received the tears of her daughter, and said to her,
Be of good comfort, my child; the Lord of heaven and earth give you  favor for this your sorrow: be of good comfort, my daughter.
