Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim of the hill-country of Ephraim. And his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah. And Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests to Jehovah, were there.
And when the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions,
but to Hannah he gave a double portion, for he loved Hannah, but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And her rival provoked her greatly, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And as he did so year by year when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her. Therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah, why do thou weep? And why do thou not eat? And why is thy heart grieved? Am not I better to thee than ten sons?
So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest was sitting upon his seat by the door-post of the temple of Jehovah.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to Jehovah, and wept much.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou will indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but will give to thy handmaid a man-child, then I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli noticed her mouth.
Now Hannah, she spoke in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought she was drunk.
And Eli said to her, How long will thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee.
And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I poured out my soul before Jehovah.
Count not thy handmaid for an iniquitous woman, for out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation have I spoken until now.
Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant thy petition that thou have asked of him.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and ate, and her countenance was no more sad.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshiped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
And it came to pass, when the time came about, that Hannah conceived, and bore a son. And she called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer to Jehovah the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, Not until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and abide there forever.
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Do what seems good to thee. Remain until thou have weaned him, only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman remained and gave her son suck, until she weaned him.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah in Shiloh, and the child was young.
And they killed the bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
And she said, Oh, my lord, as thy soul lives, my lord, I am the woman who stood by thee here, praying to Jehovah.
I prayed for this child, and Jehovah has given me my petition which I asked of him.
Therefore also I have granted him to Jehovah; as long as he lives he is granted to Jehovah. And he worshiped Jehovah there.