And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and say to them, Ye shall be holy, for I Jehovah your God am holy.
Every man shall fear his mother and his father. And ye shall keep my sabbaths. I am Jehovah your God.
Turn ye not to idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods. I am Jehovah your God.
And when ye offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to Jehovah, ye shall offer it that ye may be accepted.
It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow. And if any remain until the third day, it shall be burnt with fire.
And if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination. It shall not be accepted.
But he who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy thing of Jehovah, and that soul shall be cut off from his people.
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shall not wholly reap the corners of thy field, nor shall thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest.
And thou shall not glean thy vineyard, nor shall thou gather the fallen fruit of thy vineyard. Thou shall leave them for the poor man and for the sojourner. I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall not steal, nor shall ye deal falsely, nor lie one to another.
And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of thy God. I am Jehovah.
Thou shall not oppress thy neighbor, nor rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not abide with thee all night until the morning.
Thou shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind, but thou shall fear thy God. I am Jehovah.
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment. Thou shall not respect the person of the poor man, nor honor the person of the mighty man, but thou shall judge thy neighbor in righteousness.
Thou shall not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people, neither shall thou stand against the blood of thy neighbor. I am Jehovah.
Thou shall not hate thy brother in thy heart. Thou shall surely rebuke thy neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.
Thou shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the sons of thy people, but thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself. I am Jehovah.
Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shall not let thy cattle engender with a diverse kind. Thou shall not sow thy field with two kinds of seed, neither shall there come upon thee a garment of two kinds of stuff mingled together.
And whoever lies carnally with a woman, who is a bondmaid, betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her, they shall be punished. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
And he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah, to the door of the tent of meeting, even a ram for a trespass offering.
And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before Jehovah for his sin which he has sinned. And the sin which he has sinned shall be forgiven him.
And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit of it as their uncircumcision. Three years they shall be as uncircumcised to you; it shall not be eaten.
But in the fourth year all the fruit of it shall be holy, for giving praise to Jehovah.
And in the fifth year ye shall eat of the fruit of it, that it may yield to you the increase of it. I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall not eat anything with the blood. Neither shall ye use enchantments, nor practice augury.
Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, nor shall thou mar the corners of thy beard.
Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you. I am Jehovah.
Do not profane thy daughter, to make her a harlot, lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness.
Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary. I am Jehovah.
Do not turn to those who have familiar spirits, nor to the wizards. Do not seek them out, to be defiled by them. I am Jehovah your God.
Thou shall rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of the old man, and thou shall fear thy God. I am Jehovah.
And if a stranger sojourns with thee in your land, ye shall not do him wrong.
The stranger that sojourns with you shall be to you as the home-born among you, and thou shall love him as thyself, for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt. I am Jehovah your God.
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
Ye shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin. I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
And ye shall observe all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them. I am Jehovah.