Paul, called to be an apostle of Yahushua the Messiah through the will of יהוה, and Sosthenes our brother,
Unto the assembly of יהוה which is at Corinth, to them that are set apart in the Messiah Yahushua, called to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of Yahushua the Messiah our Master, both theirs and ours:
Favour be unto you, and peace, from יהוה our Father, and from the Master Yahushua the Messiah.
I thank my Elohim always on your behalf, for the favour of יהוה which is given you by Yahushua the Messiah;
That in every thing ye are enriched by him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge;
Even as the testimony of the Messiah was confirmed in you:
So that ye come behind in no gift; waiting for the coming of our Master Yahushua the Messiah:
Who shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye may be blameless in the day of our Master Yahushua the Messiah.
יהוה is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of his Son Yahushua the Messiah our Master.
Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Master Yahushua the Messiah, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment.
For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you.
Now this I say, that every one of you saith, I am of Paul; and I of Apollos; and I of Kepha; and I of the Messiah.
Is the Messiah divided? was Paul crucified for you? or were ye baptized in the name of Paul?
I thank יהוה that I baptized none of you, but Crispus and Gaius;
Lest any should say that I had baptized in mine own name.
And I baptized also the household of Stephanas: besides, I know not whether I baptized any other.
For the Messiah sent me not to baptize, but to preach the glad tidings: not with wisdom of words, lest the offering of the Messiah should be made of none effect.
For the preaching of the stake is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of יהוה.
For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.
Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of this world? hath not יהוה made foolish the wisdom of this world?
For after that in the wisdom of יהוה the world by wisdom knew not יהוה, it pleased יהוה by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe.
For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom:
But we preach the Messiah crucified, unto the Jews a stumblingblock, and unto the Greeks foolishness;
But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, the Messiah is the power of יהוה, and the wisdom of יהוה.
Because the foolishness of יהוה is wiser than men; and the weakness of יהוה is stronger than men.
For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called:
But יהוה hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and יהוה hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty;
And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath יהוה chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are:
That no flesh should glory in his presence.
But of him are ye in the Messiah Yahushua, who of יהוה is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption:
That, according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in יהוה.