And going out from the house in that day, Jesus sat down by the sea.
And great crowds were gathered to Him, so that boarding the boat, He sat down. And all the crowd stood on the shore.
And He spoke to them many things in parables, saying: Behold, the sower went out to sow.
And in his sowing, some fell by the roadside, and the birds came and ate them.
And other fell on the stony places where they did not have much earth, and it immediately sprang up because it had no deepness of earth.
And the sun rising, it was scorched; and because of having no root, it was dried up.
And other fell on the thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them.
And other fell on the good ground and yielded fruit; indeed, one a hundredfold, and one sixty, and one thirty.
The one having ears to hear, let him hear.
And coming near, the disciples said to Him, Why do You speak to them in parables?
And answering, He said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of Heaven, but it has not been given to those.
For whoever has, to him will be given, and he will have overabundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
Because of this, I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand.
And the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled on them, which says, "In hearing you will hear and in no way understand, and seeing you will see yet in no way perceive.
For the heart of this people has grown fat, and they heard sluggishly with the ears, and they have closed their eyes, that they not see with the eyes, or hear with the ears, and understand with the heart, and be converted, and I heal them." LXX-Isa. 6:9, 10
But your eyes are blessed because they see; and your ears because they hear.
For truly I tell you that many prophets and righteous ones desired to see what you see and did not see, and to hear what you hear and did not hear.
Then hear the parable of the sower:
Everyone hearing the Word of the kingdom, and not understanding, then the evil one comes and catches away that which was sown in his heart. This is that sown by the roadside.
And that sown on the stony places is this: the one hearing the Word, and immediately receiving it with joy,
but has no root in himself, but is temporary, and tribulation, or persecution occurring because of the Word, he is at once offended.
And that sown into the thorns is this: the one hearing the Word, and the anxiety of this age, and the deceit of riches, choke the Word, and it becomes unfruitful.
But that sown on the good ground is this: the one hearing the Word, and understanding it, who indeed brings forth and produces fruit: one truly a hundredfold, and one sixty, and one thirty.
He put before them another parable, saying: The kingdom of Heaven is compared to a man sowing good seed in his fields.
But while the men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed darnel in the midst of the wheat, and went away.
And when the blade sprouted and produced fruit, then the darnel also appeared.
And coming near, the slaves of the housemaster said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? Then from where does it have the darnel?
And he said to them, A man, an enemy did this. And the slaves said to him, Do you desire, then, that going out we should gather them?
But he said, No, lest gathering the darnel you should uproot the wheat with them.
Allow both to grow together until the harvest. And in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, First gather the darnel, and bind them into bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my granary.
He put another parable before them, saying: The kingdom of Heaven is compared to a grain of mustard, which taking, a man sowed in his field;
which indeed is less than all the seeds, but when it is grown it is greater than the plants, and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the heaven come and roost in its branches.
He spoke another parable to them: The kingdom of Heaven is compared to leaven, which taking, a woman hid in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened.
Jesus spoke all these things in parables to the crowds, and He did not speak to them without a parable,
so that was fulfilled that spoken through the prophet, saying: "I will open My mouth in parables; I will say things hidden from the foundation of the world." Psa. 78:2
Then sending away the crowds, Jesus came into the house. And His disciples came to Him, saying, Explain to us the parable of the darnel of the field.
And answering, He said to them, The one sowing the good seed is the Son of man.
And the field is the world; and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; but the darnel are the sons of the evil one .
And the enemy who sowed them is the Devil, and the harvest is the end of the age, and the angels are the reapers.
Then as the darnel is gathered and is consumed in the fire, so it will be in the end of this age.
The Son of man will send forth His angels, and they will gather out of His kingdom all the offenses, and those who practice lawlessness.
And they will throw them into the furnace of fire; there will be weeping and gnashing of the teeth.
Then the righteous will shine out like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. The one having ears to hear, let him hear.
Again, the kingdom of Heaven is compared to treasure hidden in the field, which finding, a man hid; and for the joy of it, he goes and sells all things, as many as he has, and buys that field.
Again, the kingdom of Heaven is compared to a man, a merchant seeking excellent pearls;
who finding one very precious pearl, going away has sold all things, as many as he had, and bought it.
Again, the kingdom of Heaven is compared to a drag net thrown into the sea, and gathering together of every kind;
which, when it was filled, drawing it up on the shore, and sitting down, they gathered the good into containers, and they threw out the rotten.
So it will be in the end of the age: the angels will go out and will separate the wicked from the midst of the righteous,
and will throw them into the furnace of fire; there will be weeping and gnashing of the teeth.
Jesus said to them, Have you understood all these things? They said to Him, Yes, Lord.
And He said to them, Because of this, every scribe schooled to the kingdom of Heaven is like a man, a master of a house, who puts forth out of his treasure new and old.
And it happened, when Jesus had finished these parables, He moved from there.
And coming into His own country, He taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, and said, Where did this one get this wisdom, and the powerful works?
Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas?
And are not his sisters all with us? From where then did this one get all these things?
And they were offended in Him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own homeland, and in his own house.
And He did not do many works of power there because of their unbelief.