And it happened, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and when daughters were born to them,
the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were good. And they took wives for themselves from all whom they chose.
And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, in his erring; he is flesh. Yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years.
There were giants in the earth in those days. And also after that, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, and they bore to them, they were mighty men who existed of old, men of renown.
And the LORD saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
And the LORD repented that He had made man on the earth, and He was angry to His heart.
And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created, from the face of the earth, both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air. For I repent that I have made them.
But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.
These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations. Noah walked with God.
And Noah fathered three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
And God looked upon the earth. And, behold, it was corrupted! For all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth.
And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth is filled with violence through them. And, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
Make an ark of cyprus timbers. You shall make rooms in the ark. And you shall pitch it inside and outside with pitch.
And this is the way you shall make it. The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it shall be fifty cubits and its height thirty cubits.
You shall make a window in the ark, and you shall finish it above to a cubit. And you shall set the door of the ark in the side of it. You shall make it with lower, second and third stories.
And behold! I, even I, am bringing a flood of waters upon the earth in order to destroy all flesh (in which is the breath of life) from under the heavens. Everything which is in the earth shall die.
But I will establish My covenant with you. And you shall come into the ark, you and your sons and your wife and your sons' wives with you.
And you shall bring into the ark two of every kind, of every living thing of all flesh, to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female.
Two of every kind shall come to you to keep them alive; of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after its kind.
And take for yourself all food that is eaten, and you shall gather for yourself. And it shall be for food, for you and for them.
Noah did so, according to all that God commanded him, so he did.