NOW we inform you, brethren, of the grace of God which hath been bestowed on the churches of Macedonia;
that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy, and their deep poverty, hath more abounded to the riches of their liberality.
For unto their power, I bear them witness, and above their power, they were voluntarily ready to give:
with much entreaty praying us that we would receive the gift, and undertake the communication of the contribution for the saints.
And not merely as we hoped, but gave themselves first to the Lord, and to us according to the will of God.
So that we exhorted Titus, that as he had been active before, so also he would perfect in you this grace also.
So as ye abound in every thing, in faith, and elocution, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also.
I speak not by commandment, but because of the forwardness of others, and to prove the genuineness of your love.
For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that for your sake he became poor though he was rich, that ye by his poverty should be made rich.
And in this I give my opinion: for this is expedient for you, who have before begun not only to do, but also to be willing a year ago.
Now then accomplish also the doing it, that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be also to perform out of that which ye have.
For if there is first a ready mind, a man is acceptable according to what he hath, and not according to what he hath not.
For I mean not that there should be ease for others and a burden on you;
but that according to equality, your abundance on the present occasion should afford a supply for their deficiency, that their abundance also may supply your deficiency, that there may be equality.
According as it is written, “He that gathered much had no more than others, and he who gathered little, had no less.”
But thanks be to God, who put the same solicitude for you into the heart of Titus.
For he received in deed the exhortation, but being more diligent, of his own ready mind he went unto you.
We have sent with him also a brother, whose praise in the gospel is spread through all the churches;
and not only so, but who was chosen by the churches as my fellow-traveller with this charity, ministered by us to the glory of the same Lord, and to shew your ready mind.
Avoiding this, that no man should lay any blame to us in this abundance which is administered by us:
providing what is fair, not only before the Lord, but also before men.
And we have sent with him our brother, whom we have often experienced in many things to be a man of diligence, but now much more diligent, through the great confidence which I have in you.
If any inquire concerning Titus, he is my companion and fellow-labourer to you; or our brethren be inquired of, they are the messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ.
Therefore shew unto them, and in the presence of the churches, a proof of your love, and of our just boasting in you.