He who loves correction loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is brutish.
A good man shall obtain favor of Jehovah, but he will condemn a man of wicked devices.
A man shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband, but she who makes ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are just. The counsels of the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown, and are not, but the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom, but he who is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
Better is he who is lightly esteemed, and has a servant, than he who honors himself, and lacks bread.
A righteous man regards the life of his beast, but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread, but he who pursues vanities is void of understanding.
A wicked man desires the net of evil men, but the root of the righteous gives.
A wicked man is snared by the transgression of his lips, but the righteous shall come out of trouble.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, and the actions of a man's hands shall be rendered to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he who is wise hearkens to counsel.
A fool's vexation is instantly known, but a prudent man conceals shame.
He who utters truth shows forth righteousness, but a false witness, deceit.
There is he who speaks rashly like the piercings of a sword, but the tongue of the wise is health.
The lips of truth shall be established forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, but joy is to the counselors of peace.
There shall no mischief happen to a righteous man, but the wicked shall be filled with evil.
Lying lips are an abomination to Jehovah, but those who deal truly are his delight.
A prudent man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools proclaims foolishness.
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule, but the slothful shall be put under task work.
Heaviness in the heart of a man makes it droop, but a good word makes it glad.
A righteous man is a guide to his neighbor, but the way of the wicked causes them to err.
The slothful man roasts not that which he took in hunting, but the substance of a diligent man is precious.
Life is in the way of righteousness, and in the pathway thereof there is no death.