And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and announcing the gospel of the kingdom of God, and the twelve with him,
and certain women, who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils,
and Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others who ministered unto him of their substance.
And when many people were gathered together and were come to him out of every city, he spoke by a parable:
A sower went out to sow his seed, and as he sowed, some fell along the way, and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.
And some fell upon the rock, and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away because it lacked moisture.
And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it.
And some fell on good ground and sprang up and bore fruit a hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that has ears to hear, let him hear.
And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?
And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the others in parables that seeing they might not see and hearing they might not understand.
Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
Those along the way are those that hear; then comes the devil and takes away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved.
Those on the rock [are] those that when they hear, receive the word with joy, but these have no root, who for a while believe and in time of temptation fall away.
And that which fell among thorns are those who when they have heard go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of [this] life and bring no fruit to perfection.
But that on the good ground are those who in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep [it] and bring forth fruit with patience.
No one when they have lighted a lamp cover it with a vessel or put [it] under a bed, but set [it] on a candlestick, that those who enter in may see the light.
For nothing is secret that shall not be made manifest, neither [any thing] hid that shall not be known and come to light.
Take heed therefore how ye hear, for whosoever has, to him shall be given; and whosoever has not, from him shall be taken even that which he seems to have.
Then [his] mother and his brethren came to him and could not get to him for the crowd.
And it was told him [by certain] who said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand outside, desiring to see thee.
And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are those who hear the word of God and do it.
Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship with his disciples, and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth.
But as they sailed, he fell asleep; and there came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were being filled [with] [water] and were in jeopardy.
And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm.
And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they, being afraid, wondered, saying one to another, Who is this! for he even commands the winds and the water, and they obey him.
And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee.
And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man, who had demons for a long time and wore no clothes, neither abode in [any] house, but in the tombs.
When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, [thou] Son of God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not.
(For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For oftentimes it had caught him, and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters, and he broke the bands and was driven of the demon into the wilderness.)
And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion, because many demons were entered into him.
And they besought him that he would not command them to go out into the abyss.
And there was there a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain, and they besought him that he would allow them to enter into them. And he allowed them.
Then the demons went out of the man and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake and were choked.
When those that fed [them] saw what was done, they fled and went and told [it] in the city and in the country.
Then they went out to see what was done and came to Jesus and found the man, out of whom the demons were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind; and they were afraid.
And those who saw [it] told them by what means he that was possessed of the demons was saved.
Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about besought him to depart from them, for they were taken with great fear; and he went up into the ship and returned back again.
Now the man out of whom the demons were departed besought him that he might be with him, but Jesus sent him away, saying,
Return to thine own house and tell what great things God has done unto thee. And he went, preaching throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done unto him.
And it came to pass that when Jesus returned, the people received him, for they were all waiting for him.
And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was [a] prince of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet and besought him that he would come into his house;
for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay dying. But as he went, the people thronged him.
And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, who had spent all her living upon physicians but could not be healed by any,
came behind [him] and touched the border of his garment, and immediately her issue of blood stopped.
Then Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and those that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press [thee], and sayest thou, Who touched me?
And Jesus said, Someone has touched me, for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me.
And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what cause she had touched him and how she was healed immediately.
And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith has made thee whole; go in peace.
While he yet spoke, there came one from the ruler of the synagogue's [house], saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the Master.
But when Jesus heard [it], he answered him, saying, Fear not; only believe, and she shall be made whole.
And when he came into the house, he allowed no one to go in except Peter and James and John and the father and the mother of the maiden.
And all wept and bewailed her, but he said, Weep not; she is not dead, but sleeps.
And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.
And he put them all out and took her by the hand and called, saying, Maid, arise.
Then her spirit returned, and she arose straightway, and he commanded to give her food.
And her parents were astonished, but he charged them that they should tell no one what was done.: