And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fallen out of heaven to the earth, and to him was given the key of the pit of the abyss;
and he opened the pit of the abyss. And there went up a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.
And out of the smoke went forth locusts upon the earth, and to them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power;
and it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, nor any green thing, nor any tree, but only those men who have not the seal of God upon their foreheads;
and it was given to them that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months; and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, when it hath struck a man.
And in those days men will seek death, and shall not find it; and will desire to die, and death will flee from them.
And the shapes of the locusts were like horses prepared for battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men;
and they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions.
And they had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle.
And they have tails like scorpions, and stings; and in their tails is their power to hurt men five months.
They have over them a king, the angel of the abyss, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the Greek he hath for his name Apollyon.
The first woe is past; behold, two woes more are yet to come.
And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice out of the four horns of the golden altar, which is before God,
saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Loose the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels were loosed, who were in readiness for the hour, and day, and month, and year, to slay the third part of men.
And the number of the armies of the horsemen was two hundred thousand thousand; I heard the number of them.
And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and those who sat on them, having breastplates of a fiery, and a dark blue, and a brimstone color; and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions, and out of their mouths issued fire, and smoke, and brimstone.
By these three plagues was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and the smoke, and the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.
For the power of the horses is in their mouth, and in their tails; for their tails are like to serpents, having heads; and with them they do hurt.
And the rest of men, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands, that they should not worship demons, and idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of stone, and of wood, which can neither see; nor hear, nor walk;
and they did not repent of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.