And the apostles and brethren that were in Judea, heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
And when Peter went up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision contended with him,
saying: You went in to uncircumcised men, and ate with them.
And Peter began, and laid the matter before them in order, saying:
I was in the city of Joppa, praying; and, while in a trance, I saw a vision, some vessel like a great sheet, descending, let down from heaven by the four corners; and it came even to me.
When I had looked attentively into it, I observed and saw four-footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts and creeping things and birds of the air.
And I heard a voice saying to me, Rise, Peter, kill and eat.
But I said, By no means, Lord; for nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth.
But the voice answered me a second time from heaven, What God has cleansed, you must not call common.
This was done the third time, and all was drawn up again into heaven.
And behold, three men who had been sent to me from Cæsarea, immediately came to the house where I was.
And the Spirit commanded me to go with them without hesitation. And these six brethren accompanied me. And we entered the man’s house:
and he told us how he had seen an angel in his house, standing and saying to him, Send to Joppa and call for Simon, who is surnamed Peter;
he will tell you words by which you and all your house shall be saved.
And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, as on us at the beginning.
Then I remembered the word of the Lord, as he said, John immersed in water, but you shall be immersed in the Holy Spirit.
If, then, God gave them the like gift that he gave to us who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, what was I, that I could withstand God?
And when they heard these things, they ceased to contend; and they glorified God, saying: Then, indeed, has God given to the Gentiles also repentance in order to life.
Now those who had been dispersed by the persecution that arose after the death of Stephen, traveled as far as Phenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to none but Jews.
But some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed, and turned to the Lord.
And the report concerning them came to the ears of the church that was in Jerusalem; and they sent out Barnabas to go as far as Antioch.
When he had come, and had seen the grace of God, he rejoiced; and he exhorted them all to remain, with purpose of heart, faithful to the Lord.
For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great multitude was added to the Lord.
And Barnabas went to Tarsus, to seek for Saul;
and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came to pass, that they met together in the church for a whole year, and taught a great multitude; and the disciples were called Christians first at Antioch.
In those days prophets came from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And one of them, named Agabus, rose and made known, by the Spirit, that a great famine was about to come on the whole habitable land; which took place in the days of Claudius.
And every one of the disciples determined, as he had the means, to send relief to the brethren that dwelt in Judea;
which also they did; and they sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.