Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is really not irksome to me, but safe for you.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workmen, beware of the excision.
For we are the circumcision, men who worship in spirit to God, and who boast in Christ Jesus, and not being confident in flesh.
Although (I having confidence also in flesh) if any other man seems to be confident in the flesh, I more:
in circumcision the eighth day, of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; regarding law, a Pharisee;
regarding zeal, persecuting the church; regarding the righteousness in law, having become blameless.
But whatever was gain to me, these things I regarded loss because of the Christ.
But indeed therefore I even consider all things to be loss because of things surpassing, of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom I suffered the loss of all things, and consider them to be rubbish, so that I may gain Christ,
and be found in him, not having my righteousness, that from law, but that through Christ's faith-the righteousness from God based on faith-
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the participation of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
if somehow I might attain to the resurrection of the dead.
Not that I have already obtained or have already been fully perfected, but I press forward, if also I might seize upon that for which also I was seized by Christ Jesus.
Brothers, I reckon myself not to have seized, but one thing, indeed forgetting the things behind, and reaching forward to the things ahead,
I press forward toward the goal for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
As many therefore as are perfect should think this way. And if ye think anything differently, this also God will reveal to you.
However in what we have attained, to march by the same standard, to think the same way.
Brothers, become fellow-imitators of me, and watch those who so walk, just as ye have us for an example.
For many walk, who (I told you often, and now also say while weeping) are enemies of the cross of Christ,
whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and the glory in their shame, who mind earthly things.
For our citizenship exists in the heavens, from which also we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who will transform the body of our lowliness, in order for it to become similar in form to the body of his glory, according to the working of his power even to subject all things to himself.