And it becoming early morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel together against Jesus, so as to put Him to death.
And binding Him, they led Him away and delivered Him to Pontius Pilate the governor.
Then Judas, the one betraying Him, seeing that He was condemned, repenting, returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,
saying, I sinned, betraying innocent blood. But they said, What is it to us? You see to it .
And tossing the silver pieces into the Holy Place, he left. And going away he hanged himself.
And taking the pieces of silver, the chief priests said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood.
And taking counsel, they bought of them the potter's field, for burial for the strangers.
So that field was called Field of Blood until today.
Then was fulfilled that spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying, And I took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of Him who had been priced, on whom they of the sons of Israel set a price,
and gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me. Zech. 11:12, 13
And Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor questioned Him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, You say it .
And when He was accused by the chief priests and the elders, He answered nothing.
Then Pilate said to Him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you?
And He did not answer him, not even to one word, so that the governor greatly marveled.
And at a feast, the governor customarily released one prisoner to the crowd, whom they wished.
And they had then a notable prisoner named Barabbas.
Then they, having been assembled, Pilate said to them, Whom do you wish I may release to you, Barabbas, or Jesus called Christ?
For he knew they delivered Him up through envy.
But as he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Let nothing be to you and that just one. For I have suffered many things today by a dream because of him.
But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds, that they should ask for Barabbas, and to destroy Jesus.
And answering, the governor said to them, From the two, which do you wish that I release to you? And they said, Barabbas.
Pilate said to them, What then should I do to Jesus called Christ? They all said to him, Let him be crucified.
But the governor said, For what wrong did he do? But they the more cried out, saying, Let him be crucified.
And seeing that nothing is gained, but rather an uproar occurs, taking water, Pilate washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just one; you will see.
And answering, all the people said, His blood be on us and on our children.
Then he released Barabbas to them. But having flogged Jesus, he delivered Him up that He might be crucified.
Then taking Jesus into the praetorium, the soldiers of the governor gathered all the cohort against Him.
And stripping Him, they put a scarlet cloak around Him.
And plaiting a crown of thorns, they placed it on His head, and a reed in His right hand . And bowing the knee before Him, they mocked at Him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews.
And spitting at Him, they took the reed and struck at His head.
And when they had mocked Him, they stripped off His cloak, and they put His garments on Him and led Him away to crucify Him .
And going out, they found a man, a Cyrenean, named Simon. They forced this one to bear His cross.
And coming to a place called Golgotha, which is called, Place of a Skull,
they gave Him vinegar mingled with gall to drink. And having tasted, He would not drink.
And having crucified Him, they divided His garments, casting a lot, that might be fulfilled that spoken by the prophet, "They divided My garments to themselves, and they cast a lot over My clothing." Psa. 22:18
And sitting down, they guarded Him there.
And they put up over His head His charge, it having been written: THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Then two robbers were crucified with Him, one off the right, and one off the left of Him .
But those passing by, blasphemed Him, shaking their heads,
and saying, You destroying the Holy Place and building it in three days, if you are the Son of God, come down from the cross.
And in the same way, the chief priests with the scribes and elders, mocking, said,
He saved others; he is not able to save himself. If he is the king of Israel, let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe him.
He trusted on God. Let Him rescue him now, if He desires him. For he said, I am Son of God.
And also the robbers crucified with Him reviled Him, saying the same.
And from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.
And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani; that is, "My God, My God, why did You forsake Me?" Psa. 22:1
And hearing, some of those standing there said, This one calls Elijah.
And at once, one of them running and taking a sponge, and filling it with "vinegar," put it on a reed and "gave drink to Him." Psa. 69:21
But the rest said, Let be; let us see if Elijah is coming to save him.
And crying again with a loud voice, Jesus released His spirit.
And, behold, the veil of the Holy Place was torn into two from top to bottom. And the earth quaked, and the rocks were sheared!
And the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised.
And coming forth out of the tombs after His resurrection, they entered into the holy city and were revealed to many.
But the centurion and those with him guarding Jesus, seeing the earthquake and the things taking place, they feared exceedingly, saying, Truly this One was Son of God.
And many women were there, watching from afar off, those who followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to Him;
among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
And evening having come, a rich man from Arimathea (Joseph by name) who also himself was discipled to Jesus,
coming up to Pilate, this one asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given.
And taking the body, Joseph wrapped it in clean linen,
and laid it in his new tomb, which he had cut out in the rock. And rolling a great stone to the door of the tomb, he departed.
And there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary, sitting across from the grave.
And on the morrow, which is after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees were assembled to Pilate,
saying, Sir, we have recalled that that deceiver while living said, After three days I will rise.
Therefore, command that the grave be secured until the third day, that his disciples may not come by night and steal him away, and may say to the people, He is raised from the dead. And the last deception will be worse than the first.
And Pilate said to them, You have a guard, go away, make it as secure as you know how .
And going along with the guard, they made the grave secure, sealing the stone.