Now gather yourself together, daughter of a troop; one sets a siege against us. They shall strike the Judge of Israel with a rod on the cheek.
And you, Bethlehem Ephratah, being least among the thousands of Judah, out of you He shall come forth to Me to become Ruler in Israel; and His goings forth have been from of old, from the days of eternity.
So He will give them over until the time the one giving birth has given birth. Then the rest of His brothers shall return to the sons of Israel.
And He shall stand and feed in the strength of Jehovah, in the majesty of the name of Jehovah His God. And they shall sit, for now He is great to the ends of the earth.
And this One shall be peace. When Assyria shall come into our land, and when he shall walk in our palaces, then we shall raise against him seven shepherds and eight anointed ones of man.
And they shall mar the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod at her entrances. And He shall deliver us from Assyria, when he comes into our land, and when he treads within our border.
And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples as dew from Jehovah, as showers on a blade of grass, which does not wait for man, nor delay for the sons of men.
And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among the flocks of sheep (who both tramples and tears in pieces if he passes through) and there is no one to snatch back.
Your hands shall be high above your foes, and all your enemies shall be cut off.
And it shall be in that day, I will cut off your horses out of your midst, and I will destroy your chariots, declares Jehovah.
And I will cut off the cities of your land and pull down all your fortresses.
And I will cut off sorceries out of your hand, and there shall not be fortune-tellers.
And I also will cut off your graven images and your pillars from your midst. And you shall not any more worship the work of your hands.
And I will pluck your shrines from your midst, and I will destroy your cities.
And I will execute vengeance in anger and in fury on the nations, such as they have not heard.