And he called his twelve disciples to him, and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases:
and he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.
And he said to them: Take nothing for your journey, neither staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money; nor have two coats each.
And whatever house you enter, there remain, and thence depart.
And whoever will not receive you, when you go out of that city, shake off even the dust from your feet, for a testimony against them.
And they departed, and went through every village, preaching the gospel, and performing cures everywhere.
And Herod the tetrarch heard of all things that were done by him; and he was perplexed, because it was said by some, that John had risen from the dead;
and by some, that Elijah had appeared; and by others, that a prophet of ancient times had risen again.
And Herod said: John I have beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him.
And the apostles returned, and told him all that they had done. And he took them, and withdrew privately to a desert place, that belonged to a city called Bethsaida.
But the multitudes knew it, and followed him; and he received them, and spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and healed those who had need of healing.
And the day began to decline; and the twelve came and said to him: Send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and the country round about, and lodge, and find food; for we are here in a desert place.
But he said to them: Do you give them food. They replied: We have nothing but five loaves and two fishes, unless we go and buy food for all these people.
For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples: Make them recline in companies of fifty.
And they did so, and made them all recline.
And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and broke, and gave them to the disciples, to set before the multitude.
And they all ate, and were satisfied; and there was taken up what remained to them of the broken pieces, twelve baskets.
And it came to pass, as he was praying in a retired place, that his disciples were with him; and he asked them, saying: Who do the multitudes say that I am?
They answered and said: John the Immerser; but some, Elijah; and others, that some prophet of ancient times has risen again.
He said to them: But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said: The Christ of God.
And he strictly charged them and commanded them to tell this to no one,
saying: The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be put to death, and be raised the third day.
And he said to them all: If any one determines to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever will save his life, shall lose it; but whoever will lose his life for my sake, shall save it.
For what will it profit a man, if he gain the whole world, and destroy himself, or be lost?
For whoever will be ashamed of me and my words, of him will the Son of man be ashamed, when he comes in his own glory; and that of the Father, and of the holy angels.
But I say to you, of a truth, there are some of these who stand here that shall not taste of death till they see the kingdom of God.
And it came to pass, about eight days after these words, that he took Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.
And as he prayed, the appearance of his face was changed, and his raiment became white and glittering.
And, behold, two men conversed with him, who were Moses and Elijah;
they appeared in glory, and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem.
And Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep; but having fully awakened, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him.
And it came to pass, that, as they were withdrawing from him, Peter said to Jesus: Master, it is good for us to be here; let us make three tents, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for. Elijah, not knowing what he said.
While he was saying these things, there came a cloud, and it overshadowed them; and they were afraid as those men entered the cloud.
And there came a voice from the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son; hear him.
And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it secret, and told no one, in those days, any of the things which they had seen.
And it came to pass, that, on the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great multitude met him.
And, behold, a man from the multitude cried out, saying: Teacher, I beseech thee, look upon my son, for he is my only child;
and, behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out, and it throws him into convulsions, and causes him to foam, and after depriving him of strength, hardly departs from him.
And I entreated thy disciples to cast it out; but they were not able.
And Jesus answering, said: O unbelieving and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and bear with you! Bring your son hither.
And while he was coming, the demon cast him to the ground, and threw him into convulsions; but Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and restored the child to health, and gave him back to his father.
And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God.   And while they were all wondering at every thing that Jesus did, he said to his disciples:
Let these words sink into your ears; for the Son of man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.
But they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, that they might not understand it; and they were afraid to ask him about this saying.
And there arose a contention among them, which of them should be greatest.
But Jesus perceived the thought of their heart, and he took a little child, and made it stand by him,
and said to them: Whoever will receive this little child on my account, receives me; and whoever will receive me, receives him that sent me. For he that is least among you all, the same shall be great.
And John answered and said: Master, we saw a certain one casting out demons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us.
And Jesus said to him: Forbid him not; for whoever is not against us, is for us.
And it came to pass, as the time for him to be taken up into heaven had fully come, that he set his face steadfastly to go up to Jerusalem.
And he sent messengers before his face; and they went, and entered a village of the Samaritans, to prepare for him.
And they did not receive him, because his face was turned toward Jerusalem.
And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said: Lord, is it thy will that we command fire to come down from heaven and destroy them, even as Elijah did?
But he turned and rebuked them, and said: You know not of what spirit you are.
And they went to another village.
And it came to pass, as they were going on their journey, that a certain man said to him: Lord, I will follow thee wherever thou shalt go.
And Jesus said to him: The foxes have dens, and the birds of the air have roosts, but the Son of man has not where to lay his head.
And he said to another: Follow me. But he replied: Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.
Jesus said: Let the dead bury their own dead; but do you go and publish abroad the kingdom of God.
And another said: I will follow thee, Lord; but first permit me to take leave of those at home.
Jesus said to him: No one that puts his hand to the plow, and looks back, is fit for the kingdom of God.