Now Moses was keeping the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the back of the wilderness, and came to the mountain of God, to Horeb.
And the agent of Jehovah appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.
And Moses said, I will turn aside now, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt.
And when Jehovah saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here I am.
And he said, Do not draw near here. Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place on which thou stand is holy ground.
Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God.
And Jehovah said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows.
And I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
And now, behold, the cry of the sons of Israel has come to me. Moreover I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.
Come now therefore, and I will send thee to Pharaoh, that thou may bring forth my people the sons of Israel out of Egypt.
And Moses said to God, Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the sons of Israel out of Egypt?
And he said, I will certainly be with thee. And this shall be the sign to thee, that I have sent thee: When thou have brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.
And Moses said to God, Behold, when I come to the sons of Israel, and shall say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them?
And God said to Moses, I AM WHO I AM. And he said, Thus shall thou say to the sons of Israel, I AM has sent me to you.
And God said moreover to Moses, Thus shall thou say to the sons of Israel, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations.
Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say to them, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have surely visited you, and seen that which is done to you in Egypt.
And I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, to a land flowing with milk and honey.
And they shall hearken to thy voice. And thou shall come, thou and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and ye shall say to him, Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. And now let us go, we pray thee, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our God.
And I know that the king of Egypt will not give you leave to go, no, not by a mighty hand.
And I will put forth my hand, and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst of it, and after that he will let you go.
And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. And it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty.
But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her who sojourns in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment. And ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your daughters, and ye shall despoil the Egyptians.