NOW concerning the collection which is for the saints, as I have given an order to the churches of Galatia, so also do ye.
On the first day of the week let every one of you set apart with himself, treasuring it up, whatsoever he may please to give, that when I come there may be then no gatherings.
But when I come, whosoever you shall approve by letters, those will I send to carry your charity to Jerusalem.
But if it be of importance that I should go also, they shall go with me.
Now I will come unto you when I have passed through Macedonia (for I am passing through Macedonia);
and perhaps I shall abide with you, yea and winter with you, that you may send me forward whithersoever I go.
For I will not see you now in passing, but I hope to remain some considerable time with you if the Lord permit.
But I shall abide at Ephesus until the Pentecost:
for there is opened to me a great door, and effectual, and there are many adversaries.
But if Timothy come, see that he may be among you without fear: for he worketh the Lord’s work, as I also do.
Let no man therefore treat him with disrespect; but forward him on his way in peace, that he may come to me; for I expect him with the brethren.
As concerning brother Apollos, I besought him much that he would come to you with the brethren; but it was not at all his wish to come at this time: but he will come when he can find a good opportunity.
Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, be manful, be strong.
Let all your concerns be transacted in love.
Now I exhort you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruits of Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints:)
wherefore submit yourselves to such, and to every one that worketh with us and laboureth.
I rejoice in the arrival of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus; because what was lacking from you, they have supplied.
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours; respect therefore such men.
The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church which is in their house.
All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss.
The salutation of Paul with mine own hand.
If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema, Maranatha.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.   The first epistle to the Corinthians was written from Philippi by Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, and Timothy. \p