The beginning of the good news of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my agent before thy face, who will prepare thy way before thee.
The voice of a man crying out in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight.
It came to pass, that John was immersing in the wilderness and preaching an immersion of repentance for remission of sins.
And all the land of Judea and the Jerusalemites went out to him, and they were all immersed by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
And John was clothed with camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and eating locusts and wild honey.
And he preached, saying, A man mightier than I comes after me of whom I am not worthy, having stooped down, to loosen the strap of his shoes.
I indeed immersed you in water, but he will immerse you in the Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was immersed by John in the Jordan.
And straightaway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens divided, and the Spirit descending upon him as a dove.
And a voice occurred out of the heavens, Thou are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
And straightaway the Spirit drives him forth into the wilderness.
And he was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild beasts. And the agents served him.
Now after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the good news of God,
and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God has come near. Repent ye, and believe in the good news.
And walking beside the sea of Galilee he saw Simon and Andrew his brother, the son of Simon, casting a net in the sea, for they were fishermen.
And Jesus said to them, Come ye behind me, and I will make you to become fishermen of men.
And straightaway they left the nets, and followed him.
And having advanced a little from there he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets.
And straightaway he called them. And having left their father Zebedee in the boat with the workmen, they went behind him.
And they entered into Capernaum, and straightaway on the sabbath day, having entered into the synagogue, he taught.
And they were astonished at his teaching, for he was teaching them as having authority, and not as the scholars.
And a man was in their synagogue with an unclean spirit. And he cried out,
saying, Oh no! What is with us and with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? Did thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou are, the Holy man of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be thou muzzled, and come out of him.
And the unclean spirit, having convulsed him and having cried in a great voice, came out of him.
And they were all amazed, so as to question among themselves, saying, What is this? What is this new doctrine, that he commands with authority, and the unclean spirits also obey him?
And his fame went forth straightaway into the entire region around Galilee.
And straightaway, when they came forth out of the synagogue they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
But Simon's mother-in-law lay feverish, and straightaway they tell him about her.
And upon coming, having taken hold of her hand, he raised her up and the fever left her. And straightaway she served them.
And having become evening when the sun set they brought to him all who were faring badly, and those who were demon-possessed.
And the whole city was gathered together near the door.
And he healed many who were faring badly with various diseases, and cast out many demons. And he did not allow the demons to speak, because they had recognized him.
And having risen early, very much in the night, he came out and departed into a desolate place, and prayed there.
And Simon and those with him searched for him.
And having found him, they say to him, All are seeking thee.
And he says to them, Let us go into the nearby towns, so that I may preach there also. For I came forth for this.
And he was preaching in their synagogues in all Galilee, and casting out the demons.
And a leper comes to him beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying to him, If thou will thou can make me clean.
And Jesus, having felt compassion, having reached out his hand, he touched him, and says to him, I will, be thou clean.
And after he spoke, straightaway the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed.
And having strictly warned him, straightaway he sent him out.
And he says to him, See thou say nothing to any man, but go, show thyself to the priest, and bring for thy cleansing the things that Moses commanded for a testimony to them.
But having gone out, he began to proclaim it much, and to spread abroad the matter, so as for him to no longer be able to enter openly into a city, but was outside in desolate places. And they came to him from all directions.