Then were gathered together all the assembly of the sons of Israel at Shiloh, and they set up there, the tent of meeting,—the land, having been subdued before them.
But there remained among the sons of Israel, to whom had not been apportioned their inheritance,—seven tribes.
So Joshua said unto the sons of Israel,—How long, will ye be too slothful, to enter in and take possession of the land, which Yahweh God of your fathers, hath given unto you?
Set forth for you three men for each tribe,—that I may send them, that they may arise—and go up and down in the land—and map it out as required for their inheritance, and come in unto me.
So shall they apportion it for themselves into seven parts,—Let, Judah, stay upon his boundary, on the south, and, the house of Joseph, stay upon their boundary, on the north,
but, ye, shall map out the [rest of the] land, into seven parts,—and bring in [your descriptions] unto me, here,—then will I cast lots for you here, before Yahweh our God.
For Levi hath no portion in your midst, for, the priesthood of Yahweh, is his inheritance,—and, Gad, and Reuben, and the half tribe of Manasseh, have received their inheritance, beyond the Jordan on the east, which Moses the servant of Yahweh gave unto them.
So the men arose, and went,—and Joshua commanded them who were going, to map out the land, saying—Take your journey and go up and down in the land, and map it out, and return unto me, and, here, will I cast lots for you before Yahweh, in Shiloh.
So the men went, and passed through the land, and mapped it out by cities, into seven parts, upon a scroll,—and came in unto Joshua, unto the camp, in Shiloh.
And Joshua cast for them lots, in Shiloh, before Yahweh,—and Joshua there apportioned the land unto the sons of Israel, according to their portions.
Then came up the lot of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, by their families,—and the boundary of their lot came out, between the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph.
And so their boundary, on the north border, was from the Jordan,—and the boundary goeth up unto the side of Jericho on the north, and goeth up in the hill country, westward, and the extensions thereof are towards the wilderness of Beth-aven;
and the boundary passeth over from thence towards Luz, to the side of Luz, southwards, the same, is Bethel,—and the boundary goeth down to Ataroth-addah, by the mountain that is on the south of Beth-horon the nether;
then turneth the boundary and goeth round the west border, southward, from the mountain which faceth Beth-horon, southward, and so the extensions thereof are unto Kiriath-baal—the same, is Kiriath-jearim, a city of the sons of Judah,—this, is the west border.
And, the border southward, is from the uttermost part of Kiriath-jearim,—and the boundary goeth out westward, yea it goeth out unto the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah;
and the boundary goeth down to the uttermost part of the mountain which faceth the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the Vale of Giants, northward,—and descendeth the valley of Hinnom, unto the side of the Jebusite, southward, and then descendeth to En-rogel;
and it turneth on the north, and goeth out at En-shemesh, and goeth out unto Geliloth, which is over against the ascent of Adummim,—and goeth down by the Stone of Bohan, son of Reuben;
and passeth along unto the side over against the Arabah, northward,—and goeth down toward the Arabah;
and the boundary passeth along unto the side of Beth-hoglah, northward, and so the extensions of the boundary are unto the bay of the Salt Sea, northward, unto the end of the Jordan, southward,—This, is the south boundary.
And, the Jordan itself, boundeth it as an eastward border. This, is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, by the boundaries thereof round about, by their families.
So then the cities of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, by their families, are,—Jericho and Beth-hoglah, and Emekkeziz,
and Beth-arabah and Zemaraim, and Bethel,
and Avvim and Parah and Ophrah,
and Chephar-ammoni and Ophni, and Geba,—twelve cities, with their villages:
Gibeon and Ramah, and Beeroth,
and Mizpeh and Chephirah, and Mozah,
and Rekem and Irpeel, and Taralah,
and Zelah, Eleph, and the Jebusite, the same, is Jerusalem, Gibeath [and] Kiriath, fourteen cities, with their villages. This, is the inheritance of the song of Benjamin, by their families.