The words of Amos, who was among the herdsmen of Tekoa; the word which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
And he said, The LORD will roar from Zion and utter His voice from Jerusalem; and the pastures of the shepherds shall mourn, and the top of Carmel shall dry up.
So says the LORD: For three transgressions of Damascus, yea for four, I will not turn away from it; because they have threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron.
But I will send a fire into the house of Hazael, which shall devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.
I will also break the bar of Damascus, and cut off the dweller from the Valley of Aven, and from him who holds the scepter from the house of Eden. And the people of Syria shall go into captivity to Kir, says the LORD.
So says the LORD: For three transgressions of Gaza, yea for four, I will not turn away from it; because they deported as exiles to deliver up a complete population to Edom.
But I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, which shall devour its palaces.
And I will cut off the people from Ashdod, and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon, and I will turn My hand against Ekron. And the rest of the Philistines shall perish, says the Lord God.
So says the LORD: For three transgressions of Tyre, yea for four, I will not turn away from it. Because they delivered up as exiles a complete population to Edom, and did not remember the brotherly covenant.
But I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, which shall devour its palaces.
So says the LORD: For three transgressions of Edom, yea for four, I will not turn away from it. Because he pursued his brother with the sword, and cast off all pities, and his anger tore without end, and he kept his wrath forever.
But I will send a fire upon Teman, which shall devour the palaces of Bozrah.
So says the LORD: For three transgressions of the sons of Ammon, yea for four, I will not turn away from it. Because they have ripped up the pregnant women of Gilead, to make their own border larger.
But I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour its palaces with shouting in the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind.
And their king shall go into captivity, he and his princes together, says the LORD.