And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John his brother, and led them up into a high mountain apart:
and he was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun, and his clothing was white as the light.
And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, talking with him.
And Peter answered and said to Jesus: Lord, it is good for us to be here; if thou wilt, let us make here three tents, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
While he was yet speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them; and lo, a voice from the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son, in whom I delight; hear him.
And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces, and were greatly afraid.
And Jesus came and touched them, and said: Arise and be not afraid.
And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus.
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying: Tell the vision to no one, till the Son of man has risen from the dead.
And his disciples asked him, saying: Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
Jesus answered and said to them: Elijah, indeed, comes first, and he will restore all things.
But I say to you, That Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him what they wished; so also shall the Son of man suffer at their hands.
Then, the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John the Immerser.
And when they had come to the multitude, there came to him a man who knelt to him,
and said: Lord, have mercy on my son; for he is a lunatic, and suffers grievously; for he often falls into the fire, and often into the water.
And I brought him to thy disciples, and they were not able to cure him.
Jesus answered and said: O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him hither to me.
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and he came out of him: and the child was cured from that hour.
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately, and said: Why were we not able to cast him out?
And Jesus said to them: Because of your unbelief. For verily I say to you, If you have faith like a grain of mustard-seed, you shall say to this mountain, Be removed from this place to that, and it shall be removed: and nothing shall be impossible for you.
But this kind does not go out but by prayer and fasting.
And as they were making their journey in Galilee, Jesus said to them: The Son of man is about to be delivered into the hands of men;
and they will kill him, and on the third day he will be raised again. And they were very sad.
And when they had come into Capernaum, those who collected the didrachma came to Peter, and said: Does not your teacher pay the didrachma?
He said: Yes. And when he had come into the house, before he had spoken, Jesus said to him: What think you, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth collect tax or tribute? From their own sons, or from the sons of others?
Peter said to him: From the sons of others. Jesus said to him: Then are their own sons free.
But that we may give them no offense, go to the sea, and throw in a hook, and take the fish that comes up first; and when you have opened his mouth, you will find a stater; take that, and give to them for me and you.