Then Eliashib, the high priest, rose up with his brethren, the priests, and they built the sheep gate; they sanctified it and set up the doors of it; even unto the tower of Meah they sanctified it, unto the tower of Hananeel.
And next unto him the men of Jericho built. And next to them built Zaccur, the son of Imri.
And the sons of Hassenaah built the fish gate; they laid its beams and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars.
And next to them Meremoth, the son of Urijah, the son of Koz restored. And next to them Meshullam, the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel restored. And next to them Zadok, the son of Baana, restored.
And next to them the Tekoites restored; but their nobles did not put their necks to the work of their Lord.
Moreover, the old gate [was] restored [by] Jehoiada, the son of Paseah, and Meshullam, the son of Besodeiah; they laid its beams and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars.
And next to them restored Melatiah, the Gibeonite, and Jadon, the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, on behalf of the captain [of the king over the land] on this side the river.
Next to them Uzziel, the son of Harhaiah, of the refiners restored. Next unto him Hananiah, the son of [one of] the apothecaries, also restored, and they fortified Jerusalem unto the broad wall.
And next unto them Rephaiah, the son of Hur, prince of the half part of Jerusalem, restored.
And next unto them, Jedaiah, the son of Harumaph restored, and over against his house. And next unto him Hattush, the son of Hashabniah, restored.
Malchijah, the son of Harim, and Hashub, the son of Pahathmoab, restored the other piece and the tower of the furnaces.
And next to them restored Shallum, the son of Halohesh, prince of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters.
The valley gate [was] restored [by] Hanun with the inhabitants of Zanoah; they rebuilt it and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars, and a thousand cubits in the wall unto the dung gate.
And Malchiah, the son of Rechab, prince of the province of Bethhaccerem, restored the dung gate; he built it and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars.
Shallun, the son of Colhozeh, the prince of the region of Mizpah, restored the gate of the fountain; he built it, covered it, and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars, and the wall of the pool of Siloah of the king's garden, unto the stairs that go down from the city of David.
After him restored Nehemiah, the son of Azbuk, the prince of half the region of Bethzur, unto [the place] over against the sepulchres of David and to the pool that was made and unto the house of the mighty.
After him restored the Levites, Rehum, the son of Bani. Next unto him Hashabiah, prince of half the region of Keilah, restored in his part.
After him their brethren, Bavai, the son of Henadad, prince of the half the region of Keilah restored.
And next to him Ezer, the son of Jeshua, prince of Mizpah, restored another piece over against the going up to the armoury at the turning [of the wall].
After him Baruch, the son of Zabbai, earnestly restored the other piece, from the turning [of the wall] unto the door of the house of Eliashib, the high priest.
After him, Meremoth, the son of Urijah, the son of Koz, restored another piece, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib.
And after him the priests, the men of the plain, restored.
After them Benjamin and Hashub restored over against their house. After them Azariah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, restored by his house.
After him, Binnui, the son of Henadad, restored another piece, from the house of Azariah unto the turning [of the wall], even unto the corner.
Palal, the son of Uzai, over against the turning [of the wall], and the tower which lies out from the king's high house, that [was] by the court of the prison. After him Pedaiah, the son of Parosh.
And the Nethinims were in Ophel, unto [the place] over against the water gate toward the east and the tower that lies out.
After them the Tekoites restored the another piece, over against the great tower that lies out, unto the wall of Ophel.
From the horse gate the priests restored, each one over against his house.
After them Zadok, the son of Immer, restored over against his house. After him, Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper of the east gate restored.
After him, Hananiah, the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun, the sixth son of Zalaph, restored another piece. After him Meshullam, the son of Berechiah restored over against his chamber.
After him, Malchiah, the son of the refiner, restored unto the place of the Nethinims and of the merchants, over against the gate of judgment and to the going up of the corner.
And between the going up of the corner unto the sheep gate, the refiners and the merchants restored.: