Nebuchadnezzar the king to all the peoples, the nations, and the tongues that dwell in all the earth: Your peace be multiplied.
It seemed good before me to declare the signs and wonders that the Most High God has done with me.
How great are His signs! And how mighty are His wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and His rule is from generation to generation.
I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house, and flourishing in my palace.
I saw a dream, and it terrified me, and the thoughts on my bed and visions of my head troubled me.
So I made a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon before me, that they might make known to me the meaning of the dream.
Then the horoscopists, the conjurers, the Chaldeans, and the fortunetellers came in. And I told the dream before them, but they did not make its meaning known to me.
But at last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my god, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods. And I told the dream before him, saying ,
O Belteshazzar, master of the horoscopists, because I now that the spirit of the holy gods is in you, and no secret troubles you, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and its meaning.
As to the visions of my head on my bed, I was looking, and. behold, a tree was in the middle of the earth. And its height was great.
The tree became great and strong, and its height reached to the sky, and its appearance to the end of all the earth.
Its leaves were beautiful, and its fruit plentiful, and food for all was in it. The animals of the field sought shade under it, and the birds of the sky dwelt in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it.
I was looking in the visions of my head on my bed. And, behold, a watcher, even a holy one, came down from the heaven
He cried with might and said this: Cut down the tree and cut off its branches. Shake off its leaves and scatter its fruit. Let the animals flee from under it, and the birds leave its branches.
But leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a fetter of iron and bronze, in the grass of the field. And let it be wet with the dew of the heavens, and his portion be with the animals in the grass of the earth.
Let his heart be changed from man's, and let the heart of an animal be given to him. And let seven times pass over him.
This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the command by the word of the holy ones, so that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men and gives it to whomever He will. And He sets up over it the lowest of men.
I, Nebuchadnezzar, have seen this dream. Now you, O Belteshazzar, declare its meaning, since all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to reveal the meaning to me. But you are able, for the spirit of the holy gods is in you.
Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was stunned for one hour, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spoke and said, O Belteshazzar, do not let the dream or its meaning trouble you. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, the dream is to those who hate you, and its meaning is to your foes.
The tree that you saw, which became great and strong, whose height reached to the heaven and its appearance to all the earth,
and its leaves being beautiful, and its fruit plentiful, and food for all being in it, under which the animals of the field lived, and in its branches the birds of the sky had their home:
It was you, O king, for you have become great and strong. For your greatness has grown and reaches to the heavens, and your rule is to the end of the earth.
And as the king saw a watcher and a holy one coming down from the heavens, and saying, Cut the tree down, and destroy it. Yet leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and bronze, in the grass of the field. And let him be wet with the dew of the heavens, and his portion be with the animals of the field, until seven times pass over him.
This is the meaning, O king, and this the decree of the Most High, which has come on my lord the king:
And you shall be driven from men, and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field. And you shall be fed with grass like oxen. And you shall be wet with dew of the heavens; and seven times shall pass over you until you know that the Most High is Ruler in the kingdom of men, and He gives it to whomever He desires.
And in that they that commanded to leave the stump of the tree roots, Your kingdom shall be enduring to you after you have realized that Heaven rules.
So, O king, let my advice be pleasing to you: Even break off your sins by righteousness, and your iniquities by pitying the poor, whether there will be duration to your prosperity.
All this came on the king, Nebuchadnezzar.
At the end of twelve months, he walked in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon.
The king spoke and said, is this not great Babylon that I have built for the house of the kingdom, by the might of my power, and for the honor of my majesty?
The word was still in the king's voice when a voice fell from the heaven, saying , O king Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is declared: The kingdom has been taken from you!
And you shall be driven from men, and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field. You shall be fed with the grass like oxen, and seven times shall pass over you until you know that the Most High is Ruler in the kingdom of men, and that He gives it to whomever He desires.
The same hour the thing was fulfilled on Nebuchadnezzar. And he was driven from men, and he ate the grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the heavens, until his hair had grown like eagles' feathers , and his nails like birds' claws .
And at the end of the days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to the heaven, and my understanding returned to me, and I blessed the Most High. And I praised and honored Him who lives forever, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and His rule from generation to generation.
And all the inhabitants of the earth are counted as nothing. And He does according to His will among the army of Heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth. And no one is able to strike His hand or say to Him, What are You doing?
At that time my reason returned to me, and the glory of my kingdom, my majesty, and my brightness returned to me. And my advisers and my nobles sought to me. And I was reestablished in my kingdom, and excellent greatness was added to me.
Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and exalt and honor the King of Heaven, for all His works are truth, and His ways are justice. And He is able to humble those who walk in pride.