Call now, is there anyone who will answer you? And to which of the saints will you turn?
For vexation kills the fool, and envy slays the simple one.
I have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his dwelling place.
His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the gate, nor is there any to deliver them.
Their harvest the hungry eats, and takes it even out of the thorns; and the snare swallows up their wealth.
For affliction does not come forth from the dust, nor does trouble spring up out of the ground;
but man is born to trouble, as the sparks fly upward.
Truly, I would seek to God, and to God I would put my plea,
Who is doing great things, even beyond searching; marvelous things without number,
who gives rain on the earth and sends waters on the field,
to set on high those who are low, so that those who mourn may be lifted up to safety;
frustrating the plans of the crafty, nor did their hands do wisely.
He takes the wise in their own craftiness; and the counsel of the wily is carried headlong.
They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope in the noonday as in the night.
But He saves the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty.
And there is hope for the weak, and injustice shuts her mouth.
Behold, blessed is the man whom God corrects. Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty.
For He makes sore, and binds up; He wounds, and His hands make whole.
He will deliver you in six troubles; yea, in seven no evil shall touch you.
In famine He shall redeem you from death; and in war from the power of the sword.
You shall be hidden from the whip of the tongue; neither shall you be afraid of robbery when it comes.
At destruction and famine you shall laugh; neither shall you be afraid of the beasts of the earth.
For you shall be in covenant with the stones of the field; and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with you.
And you shall know that your tent is in peace; and you shall visit your fold, and shall miss nothing.
And you shall know that your seed will be numerous, and your offspring as the grass of the earth.
You shall come to your grave in a full age, like a shock of grain comes in its season.
Behold this: we have searched it; it is so. Hear it and know for yourself.