After the tumult had ceased, Paul called the disciples to him, and bade them farewell, and departed, in order to go into Macedonia.
And when he had gone through those regions, and had exhorted them with many words, he came into Greece.
And having remained there three months, he determined to return through Macedonia, because a plot had been laid for him by the Jews, as he was about to sail to Syria.
And Sopater of Berea, and Aristarchus and Secundus of Thessalonica, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy and Tychicus and Trophimus, who were Asiatics, accompanied him to Asia.
These went before, and waited for us at Troas.
But we sailed from Philippi, after the days of unleavened bread, and came to them at Troas in five days, where we remained seven days.
And on the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul discoursed to them, intending to depart on the morrow; and he continued his speech till midnight.
And there were many lamps in the upper room, in which they had met together.
And a certain young man, named Eutychus, was sitting in the window, overpowered with deep sleep: and, as Paul was discoursing a long time, being oppressed with sleep, he fell from the third story, and was taken up dead.
But Paul went down, and fell upon him, and embracing him, said: Be not troubled, for his life is in him.
And he went up again, and broke bread, and ate; and having conversed a long time, till daylight, he thus departed.
And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted.
And we went on before to the ship, and put to sea for Assos, intending to take Paul on board at that place; for he had so directed, intending to go himself on foot.
And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board, and came to Mitylene;
and sailing from that place, we came, on the following day, opposite to Chios; and, on the next day, we arrived at Samos: and after stopping at Trogyllium, we came, on the next day, to Miletus.
For Paul had determined to sail past Ephesus, that he might not spend time in Asia; for he hastened, that, if it were possible for him, he might be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost.
From Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of the church.
And when they had come to him, he said to them: You know, from the first day on which I came into Asia, how I have been with you during the whole time,
serving the Lord with all lowliness of mind, and with tears, and with trials, which came upon me through the plots of the Jews;
and that I have kept back nothing that was profitable, but have preached to you, and taught you both publicly, and from house to house,
bearing full testimony both to Jews and to Greeks, of the repentance that leads to God, and of the faith that leads to our Lord Jesus Christ.
And now, behold, I am going, bound in spirit, to Jerusalem, not knowing what shall befall me there,
except that in every city the Holy Spirit testifies to me, saying, That bonds and afflictions await me.
But I esteem this a matter of no importance, nor do I hold my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my course with joy, and the ministry that I have received from the Lord Jesus, to bear full testimony to the gospel of the grace of God.
And now, behold, I know that you all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, will see my face no more.
For this reason I solemnly affirm to you this day, that I am clean from the blood of all men.
For I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God.
Therefore, take heed to yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, that you be shepherds to the church of God, which he has purchased with his own blood.
For I know this, that, after my departure, rapacious wolves will enter in among you, who will not spare the flock;
and men will arise from among yourselves, speaking perverse things, that they may draw off disciples after them.
Therefore watch, remembering that for three years, by day and by night, I ceased not to warn every one of you with tears.
And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace; to Him who is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all the sanctified.
I have coveted no man’s silver, or gold, or apparel.
You yourselves know that these hands have ministered to my necessities, and to those who were with me.
In all things I have taught you by example, that by thus laboring, you ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus; for he himself said, It is more blessed to give, than to receive.
And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all.
And they all wept much, and fell on Paul’s neck, and kissed him,
grieving most of all for the word he had spoken, that they would see his face no more. And they conducted him to the ship.