And he made him houses, in the city of David,—and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.
Then, said David, None must carry the ark of God, save the Levites,—for, of them, did Yahweh make choice, to bear the ark of Yahweh, and to attend it, unto times age-abiding.
So David convoked all Israel, unto Jerusalem,—to bring up the ark of Yahweh, unto the place thereof, which he had prepared for it.
And David gathered together the sons of Aaron, and the Levites:
Of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and his brethren, one hundred and twenty;
of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and his brethren, two hundred and twenty;
of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and his brethren, one hundred and thirty;
of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren, two hundred;
of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and his brethren, eighty;
of the son of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and his brethren, a hundred and twelve.
Then called David, for Zadok and for Abiathar, the priests,—and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah and Joel, Shemaiah and Eliel, and Amminadab;
and said unto them, Ye, are the chiefs of the fathers of the Levites,—Hallow yourselves, ye and your brethren, so shall ye bring up the ark of Yahweh—God of Israel, into [the place] I have prepared for it.
Because, at the first, ye, did not [bring it], Yahweh our God brake forth against us, because we sought him not in the appointed way.
So the priests and the Levites hallowed themselves,—to bring up the ark of Yahweh, God of Israel.
And the sons of the Levites bare the ark of God, just as Moses commanded, according to the word of Yahweh,—on their shoulder, with the staves upon them.
And David spake to the chiefs of the Levites, to station their brethren the singers, with instruments of song, harps and lyres, and cymbals,—sounding aloud at the lifting up of the voice, for joy.
So the Levites caused to stand, Heman son of Joel, and, of his brethren, Asaph, son of Berechiah,—and, of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan, son of Kushaiah;
and, with them, their brethren of the second degree,—Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mickneiah, and Obed-edom and Jeiel, the door-keepers.
And, the singers, Heman, Asaph and Ethan, with cymbals of bronze, were to sound aloud;
and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah and Benaiah,—with harps, over the trebles;
and Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel and Azaziah,—with lyres over the bass, to take the lead.
And, Chenaniah the leader of the Levites, in the service, used to give instructions in the service, because skilful was he.
And, Berechiah and Elkanah, were door-keepers to the ark.
And, Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, were blowing with the trumpets, before the ark of God,—and, Obed-edom and Jehiah, were door-keepers, to the ark.
Thus, it was, David and the elders of Israel, and the rulers of thousands, who were going, to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, out of the house of Obed-edom, with joy.
And so it was that, when God helped the Levites, who were bearing the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, they sacrificed seven bullocks and seven rams.
Now, David, was wrapped about with a robe of byssus, with all the Levites who were bearing the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the leader of the service rendered by the singers,—but, upon David, was an ephod of white linen.
So, all Israel, were bringing up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, with shouting, and with sound of the horn, and with trumpets, and with cymbals,—sounding aloud, with harps, and lyres.
And so it was that, when the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came in as far as the city of David,—and Michal daughter of Saul looked forth through the window, and saw King David, dancing and playing, that she despised him in her heart.