So God blessed Noah and his sons,—and said to them Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth;
and let the fear of you and the dread of you be upon every living creature of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens,—over everything that moveth along on the ground, and over all the fishes of the sea,—into your hand, have they been given.
As for every moving thing that hath life, yours, shall it be, for food,—Like the green herb, have I given you all things.
Yet flesh with the life thereof, the blood thereof, shall ye not eat;
And surely your blood, of your lives, will I require, From the hand of every living creature, will I require it,—and from the hand of man From the hand of each one’s brother, will I require the life of man:
He that sheddeth man’s blood, by man, shall his blood be shed,—For, in the image of God, made he man.
Ye, therefore, be fruitful and multiply, swarm in the earth and multiply therein.
And God spake unto Noah, and unto his sons with him saying:
I, therefore, behold me! establishing my covenant with you,—and with your seed after you;
and with every living soul that is with you, of birds, of tame-beasts and of all wild-beasts of the earth that are with you,—of all coming forth out of the ark, even to all wild-beasts of the earth;
yea, I will establish my covenant with you, so that all flesh shall not be cut off any more, by reason of the waters of a flood,—neither shall there be any more a flood to destroy the earth.
And God said, This, is the sign of the covenant which I am granting betwixt me and you, and every living soul that is with you,—to age-abiding generations:—
My bow, have I set in the cloud,—and it shall be for a sign of a covenant, betwixt me and the earth;
and it shall be when I draw a veil of cloud over the earth,—and the bow in the cloud appeareth,
then will I remember my covenant which is betwixt me and you, and every living soul among all flesh,—that the waters may no more become a flood, to destroy all flesh:
so the bow shall be in the cloud,—and I will behold it, to remember an age-abiding covenant, between God, and every living soul among all flesh that is on the earth.
And God said unto Noah, This is the sign of the covenant which have established, between me and all flesh that is on the earth.
And the sons of Noah who came forth out of the ark, were—Shem and Ham and Japheth,—now, Ham, was the father of Canaan.
These three, were the sons of Noah,—and from these, was all the earth overspread.
And Noah began to be a husbandman,—so he planted a vineyard:
and dank of the wine and became drunk, and uncovered himself in the midst of his tent.
And Ham the father of Canaan saw his father’s shame,—and told his two brethren outside.
And Shem and Japheth took a mantle, and put it on the shoulder of them both and went backwards, and covered the shame of their father, but their faces were backwards, and the shame of their father, saw they not.
And Noah awoke from his wine,—and came to know what his youngest son had done to him.
And he said, Accursed be Canaan,—a servant of servants, shall he be to his brethren!
And he said, Blessed be Yahweh, God of Shem,—And let Canaan be their servant:
God give extension to Japheth, But make his habitation in the tents of Shem, And let Canaan be their servant.
And Noah lived after the flood,—three hundred and fifty years:
so, all the days of Noah, were—nine hundred and fifty years,—and he died.