I beseech you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, pleasing to God, which is your reasonable service.
And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, in order to prove by you what is that good and pleasing and perfect will of God.
For I say, through the grace given to me, to every one who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But set your mind to be right-minded, even as God has dealt to every man the measure of faith.
For even as we have many members in one body, and all members do not have the same function,
so we the many are one body in Christ, and each one members of one another.
Then having gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, if prophecy, according to the proportion of faith;
or ministry, in the ministry; or he who teaches, in the teaching;
or he who exhorts, in the encouragement; or he who shares, in simplicity; or he who takes the lead, in diligence; or he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness.
Let love be without hypocrisy, shrinking from evil, cleaving to good;
in brotherly love to one another, loving fervently, having led one another in honor.
As to diligence, not slothful, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord;
rejoicing in hope, patient in affliction, steadfastly continuing in prayer,
distributing to the needs of the saints, pursuing hospitality.
Bless those who persecute you; bless, and do not curse.
Rejoice with rejoicing ones, and weep with weeping ones;
minding the same thing toward one another, not minding high things, but yielding to the lowly. Do not be wise within yourselves.
Repay no one evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men.
If it is possible, as far as is in you, seeking peace with all men.
not avenging yourselves, beloved, but giving place to wrath; for it is written, "Vengeance is Mine, I will repay, says the Lord."
Therefore if your enemy hungers, feed him. If he thirsts, give him drink. For in so doing you shall heap coals of fire on his head.
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.