Now a certain [man] was sick, [named] Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha.
(It was [that] Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair whose brother Lazarus was sick.)
Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
When Jesus heard [that], he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby.
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where he was.
Then after that he said to [his] disciples, Let us go into Judea again.
[His] disciples said unto him, Rabbi, the Jews of late sought to stone thee, and goest thou there again?
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world.
But he who walks in the night stumbles because there is no light in him.
Having said that he said unto them, Our friend Lazarus sleeps, but I go that I may awake him out of sleep.
Then his disciples said, Lord, if he sleeps, he shall be saved.
But Jesus had spoken of his death, and they thought that he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep.
Then Jesus said unto them plainly, Lazarus has died.
And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, in order that ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him.
Then Thomas said, who is called Didymus, unto his fellowdisciples, Let us go also, that we may die with him.
Then when Jesus came, he found that he had [lain] in the grave four days already.
Now Bethany was near unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off;
and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to comfort them concerning their brother.
Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him; but Mary sat [still] in the house.
Then Martha said unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother would not have died.
But I know that even now whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give [it unto] thee.
Jesus said unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.
Martha said unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection in the last day.
Jesus said unto her, I AM the resurrection and the life; he that believes in me, though he is dead, yet shall he live;
and whosoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Believest thou this?
She said unto him, Yes, Lord, I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, who should come into the world.
And having said this, she went away and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calls for thee.
As soon as she heard [that], she arose quickly and came unto him.
(Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in that place where Martha met him.)
Then the Jews who were with her in the house and comforted her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out, followed her, saying, She goes unto the grave to weep there.
Then when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother would not have died.
When Jesus therefore saw her weeping and the Jews also weeping who came with her, he became enraged in [the] Spirit and stirred himself up
and said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see.
Jesus wept.
Then the Jews said, Behold how he loved him!
And some of them said, Could not this [man], who opened the eyes of the blind, have also caused that this [man] should not have died?
Jesus therefore, becoming enraged again in himself, came to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.
Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that had died, said unto him, Lord, by this time he stinks, for he has been [dead] four days.
Jesus said unto her, Did I not say unto thee that if thou wouldest believe thou shalt see the glory of God?
Then they took away the stone [from the place] where the dead was laid. And Jesus, lifting up [his] eyes, said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me.
And I knew that thou hearest me always, but because of the people who stand by I said [it], that they may believe that thou hast sent me.
And having said these things, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.
Then he that had been dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes, and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus said unto them, Loose him, and let him go.
Then many of the Jews who had come to Mary and had seen what Jesus did believed on him.
But some of them went unto the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
Then the high priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said, What shall we do? for this man does many signs.
If we let him thus alone, everyone will believe on him, and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and the nation.
And one of them, [named] Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all
nor consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and not that the whole nation be lost.
And this he spoke not of himself; but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation;
and not for that nation only, but that he should also gather together in one the sons of God that were scattered abroad.
So that from that day forth they took counsel together to kill him.
Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there unto a country near to the wilderness into a city called Ephraim and there continued with his disciples.
And the passover of the Jews was now at hand, and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover to purify themselves;
and they sought for Jesus and spoke among themselves as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the feast?
Now both the high priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment, that if anyone knew where he was he should show [it], that they might take him.: