After these things done in faithfulness, came Sennacherib king of Assyria,—and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fortified cities, and thought to break into them for himself.
And, when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come,—and that, his face, was—to war, against Jerusalem,
he took counsel with his captains and his heroes, to stop the waters of the fountains, which were outside the city,—and they helped him.
And there were gathered together much people, so they stopped all the fountains, and the torrent that flowed through the midst of the land, saying,—Wherefore should the kings of Assyria come, and find many waters?
And he took courage, and built all the wall that was broken down and carried up thereon towers, and, on the outside, another wall, and strengthened Millo, the city of David,-and made weapons in abundance, and bucklers,
and set captains of war over the people,—and gathered them together unto him in the broadway of the gate of the city, and spake unto their heart, saying,—
Be strong and bold, do not fear neither be dismayed, because of the king of Assyria, nor because of all the multitude that is with him,—for, with us, is One greater than with him:
with him, is an arm of flesh, but, with us, is Yahweh our God, to help us, and to fight our battles. And the people leaned upon the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.
After this, Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants towards Jerusalem, himself, being near Lachish, and all his imperial might with him,—unto Hezekiah king of Judah, and unto all Judah that was in Jerusalem, saying:
Thus, saith Sennacherib, king of Assyria,-Upon what, are, ye, trusting, that ye are awaiting the siege in Jerusalem?
Is not, Hezekiah, persuading you, so as to deliver you up to die with hunger and with thirst, saying,—Yahweh our God, will deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
Is it not, the same Hezekiah, who hath removed his high places, and his altars,—and hath given word to Judah and Jerusalem, saying, Before one altar, shall ye bow yourselves down, and, thereupon, shall ye burn incense?
Will ye not take note, what I have done, I and my fathers, to all the peoples of the countries? Have the gods of the nations of the countries been, at all able, to deliver their country, out of my hand?
Who, among all the gods of these nations whom my fathers devoted to destruction, hath ever been able to deliver his people out of my hand,—that your god should be able to deliver you out of my hand?
Now, therefore, do not let Hezekiah beguile you nor persuade you thus, neither do ye believe him. For no, god, of any nation or kingdom hath ever been able to deliver his people out of my hand, or out of the hand of my fathers,-how much less shall, your gods, deliver you, out of my hand?
And, yet more, spake his servants, against Yahweh, God,—and against Hezekiah his servant.
Letters, also wrote he, to scoff at Yahweh God of Israel, and to speak against him, saying, Like the gods of the nations of the countries, who delivered not their people out of my hand, so, shall the god of Hezekiah not deliver his people out of my hand.
Then cried they out, with a loud voice, in the Jews’ language, unto the people of Jerusalem who were upon the wall, to affright them, and to terrify them,—to the end they might capture the city.
And they spake against the God of Jerusalem,—as against the gods of the peoples of the earth, the work of the hands of men.
And Hezekiah the king and Isaiah son of Amoz, the prophet, prayed concerning this,-and made outcry unto the heavens,
So Yahweh sent a messenger, who cut off every hero of valour, and chief ruler and captain, in the camp of the king of Assyria,—and he returned with shame of face to his own land, and, when he entered the house of his god, then, the issue of his own body—there, caused him to fall by the sword.
Thus did Yahweh save Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem out of the hand of Sennacherib king of Assyria, and out of the hand of every one,—and gave them rest on every side.
And, many, were bringing in a present unto Yahweh, to Jerusalem, and precious things, unto Hezekiah king of Judah,—so that he was exalted in the eyes of all the nations, from thenceforth.
In those days, was Hezekiah sick unto death,—and, when he prayed unto Yahweh, he was entreated of him and, a wonderful token, he gave him.
But, not according to the benefit done unto him, did Hezekiah make return, for uplifted was his heart,—and so there came upon him, wrath, and upon Judah and Jerusalem.
Then Hezekiah humbled himself, for the uplifting of his heart, he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem,—so that the wrath of Yahweh came not upon them, in the days of Hezekiah.
And it came to pass that, Hezekiah, had riches and honour in great abundance,—and, treasuries, made he for himself—for silver and for gold and for costly stones, and for spices and for precious things, and for all utensils to be coveted;
storehouses also, for the increase of corn, and new wine and oil,—and cribs for every kind of beast, and cribs for the flocks;
and, cities, made he for himself, and possessions of flocks and herds, in abundance,—for God had given him exceeding great wealth.
And, the same Hezekiah, stopped up the upper spring of the waters of Gihon, and brought them straight down the west side of the city of David,—and Hezekiah prospered in all his work.
Yet verily, with regard to the ambassadors of the rulers of Babylon, who sent unto him to enquire concerning the wonderful token which came to pass in the land, God left him,—to prove him, to take note of all that was in his heart.
But, the rest of the story of Hezekiah, and his lovingkindnesses, there they are, written in the visions of Isaiah son of Amoz, the prophet, in the book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the ascent of the sepulchres of the sons of David, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him, honour, in his death,—and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.