About this time, when the number of the disciples was constantly increasing, complaints were made by the Jews of foreign birth against the native Jews, that their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution.
The Twelve, therefore, called together the general body of the disciples and said to them: “It is not well for us to see to the distribution at the tables and neglect God’s Message.
Therefore, Brothers, look for seven men of reputation among yourselves, wise and spiritually-minded men, and we will appoint them to attend to this matter;
while we, for our part, will devote ourselves to Prayer, and to the delivery of the Message.”
This proposal was unanimously agreed to; and the disciples chose Stephen — a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit — and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicholas of Antioch, a former convert to Judaism;
and they brought these men to the Apostles, who, after praying, placed their hands on them.
So God’s Message spread, and the number of the disciples continued to increase rapidly in Jerusalem, and a large body of the priests accepted the Faith.
Meanwhile Stephen, divinely helped and strengthened, was showing great wonders and signs among the people.
But some members of the Synagogue known as that of Libertines, Cyrenians, Alexandrians, and Visitors from Cilicia and Roman Asia, were roused to action and began disputing with Stephen;
yet they were quite unable to withstand the wisdom and the inspiration with which he spoke.
Then they induced some men to assert that they had heard Stephen saying blasphemous things against Moses, and against God;
and they stirred up the people, as well as the Councillors and the Teachers of the Law, and set upon Stephen, and arrested him, and brought him before the High Council.
There they produced witnesses who gave false evidence.  “This man,” they said, “is incessantly saying things against this Holy Place and the Law;
indeed, we have heard him declare that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this Place, and change the customs handed down to us by Moses.”
The eyes of all the members of the Council were riveted upon Stephen, and they saw his face looking like the face of an angel.