And Job answered and said,
Listen carefully to my speech, and let this be your comfort.
Rise with me and I shall speak; and after I have spoken, mock on.
As for me, is my complaint to man? And why should my spirit not be troubled?
Turn to me and be amazed, and lay your hand on your mouth.
And if I remember, I am afraid, and trembling takes hold on my flesh.
Why do the wicked live? They grow old and become mighty in power?
Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes.
Their houses are in peace, without fear; nor is the rod of God on them.
Their bull mates and does not fail; their cow calves, and does not cast her calf.
They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance.
They lift up voice at the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the flute.
They spend their days in good, and in a moment go down to the grave.
And they say to God, Depart from us; for we do not desire the knowledge of your ways;
what is the Almighty, that we should serve Him? And what profit should we have if we pray to Him?
Behold, their good is not in their hand; the wisdom of the wicked is far from me.
How often is the lamp of the wicked put out, and their trouble comes on them! He shares out pains in His anger;
they are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm steals away.
God lays up his iniquity for his children. He repays him, and he knows.
His eyes shall see his ruin, and he shall drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
For what is his pleasure in his house after him, and the number of his months is cut off?
Shall any teach God knowledge, since He shall judge the exalted?
One dies in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet.
His sides are full of milk, his bones are wet with marrow.
And another dies with bitter soul, and never eats with pleasure.
They lie down together in the dust, and the worms shall cover them.
Behold, I know your thoughts, and the plots which you wrongfully hatch against me.
For you say, Where is the house of the noble, and where the dwelling-places of the wicked?
Did you not ask those who go by the way? And do you not know their signs,
that the wicked is kept for the day of calamity? They shall be brought to the day of wrath.
Who shall declare his way to his face? And who shall repay him what he has done?
Yet he shall be brought to the grave, and watch shall be kept over his tomb.
And the clods of the valley shall be sweet to him and every man shall draw after him, as there is no numbering of those before him.
How then do you comfort me in vain; yea, in your answers remains transgression?