These things, spake Jesus, and, lifting up his eyes unto heaven, said:—Father! The hour is come! Glorify thy Son, that, the Son, may glorify, thee,—
Even as thou gavest him authority over all flesh, that, as touching whatsoever thou hast given him, he might give unto them, life age-abiding.
And, this, is the age-abiding life, That they get to know thee, the only real God, and him whom thou didst send, Jesus Christ.
I, glorified thee on the earth, The work, finishing, which thou hast given me that I should do.
And, now, glorify me—thou, Father! with thyself, with the glory which I had, before the world’s existence, with thee.
I manifested thy name, unto the men whom thou gavest me out of the world: Thine, they were, and, to me, thou gavest them, and, thy word, have they kept:
Now, have they come to know, That, all things, as many as thou gavest me, are, from thee;
And, the declarations which thou gavest me, have I given them, and, they, received them, and came to know in truth, that, from thee, came I forth,—and they believed, that, thou, didst send me forth.
I, concerning them, make request: not, concerning the world, do I make request, but concerning them whom thou hast given me, because, thine, they are,—
And, all my possessions, are, thine, and, thy possessions, mine, and I have been glorified in them.
And, no longer, am I in the world, and, they, are, in the world,—and, I, unto thee, am coming. Holy Father! Keep them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one, as, we.
When I was with them, I, kept them in thy name which thou hast given me,—And I kept watch, and, none from among them, went the destruction,—save the son of destruction, that, the Scripture, might be fulfilled.
But, now, unto thee, am I coming; and, these things, am I speaking in the world, that they may have my own joy fulfilled in themselves.
I, have given them thy word, and, the world, hated them, because they are not of the world—even as, I, am not of the world.
I request not, that thou wouldst take them out of the world, but that thou wouldst keep them out of the evil:
Of the world, they are not, even as, I, am not of the world.
Hallow them in the truth: Thine own word, is, truth:
Even as thou didst send me forth into the world, I also, send them forth into the world;
And, on their behalf, I, hallow myself, that, they also, may have become hallowed in truth.
Not however concerning these alone, do I make request, but, concerning them also who believe, through their word, on me:
That they, all, may be, one,—even as, thou, Father, in me, and, I, in thee,—that, they also, in us, may be;—that, the world, may believe that, thou, didst send me forth.
And, I, the glory which thou hast given to me, have given to them, that they may be one, even as, we, are, one.—
I, in them and, thou, in me; That they may have been perfected into, one,—That the world may get to know, that, thou, didst send me forth, and didst love them even as thou didst love, me.
Father! As touching that which thou hast given me, I desire—That, where, I, am, they also, may be, with me, that they may behold my own glory which thou hast given me,—because thou lovedst me, before the foundation of the world.
Righteous Father! And so, the world, came not to know thee; but, I, came to know thee, and, these, came to know that, thou, didst send me forth:
And I made known unto them thy name, and will make known,—that, the love wherewith thou lovedst me, in them, may be, and, I, in them.