And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, that they take for me a heave-offering,—of every man whose heart urgeth him, shall ye take my heave-offering.
And, this is the heave-offering which ye shall take of them,—gold and silver and bronze;
and blue, and purple, and crimson and fine linen, and goat’s hair;
and rams’ skins dyed red, and badgers’ skins and acacia wood;
oil for giving light,—perfumes for the anointing oil, and for fragrant incense;
onyx stones, and setting stones,—for the ephod and for the breastpiece:
So shall they make for me a sanctuary,—and I will make my habitation in their midst:
according to all that, I, am shewing thee, the pattern of the habitation, and the pattern of all the furnishings thereof, even so, shall ye make it.
And they shall make an ark of acacia wood,-two cubits and a half, the length thereof and, a cubit and a half, the breadth thereof, and, a cubit and a half, the height thereof.
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without, shalt thou overlay it,—and thou shalt make thereon a rim of gold, round about.
And thou shalt cast for it four rings of gold, and shalt put them on the four feet thereof,—even two rings on the one side thereof, and two rings on the other side thereof.
And thou shalt make staves, of acacia wood,—and shalt overlay them with gold.
And thou shalt bring in the staves into the rings, on the sides of the ark,—to bear the ark therewith,
In the rings of the ark, shall remain the staves,—they shall not be removed therefrom.
And thou shalt put into the ark,—the testimony which I will give unto thee.
And thou shalt make a propitiatory, of pure gold,—two cubits and a half, the length thereof, and, a cubit and a half, the breadth thereof,
And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold,—of beaten work, shalt thou make them, out of the two ends of the propitiatory.
And make thou one cherub out of this end, and the other cherub out of that end,—out of the propitiatory, shall ye make the cherubim upon the two ends thereof.
And the cherubim shall be spreading out two wings on high—making a shelter with their wings over the propitiatory, with their faces one towards the other,—towards the propitiatory, shall be the faces of the cherubim.
And thou shalt put the propitiatory upon the ark above,—and in the ark, shalt thou put the testimony, which I will give unto thee.
And I will meet with thee there, and will speak with thee from off the propitiatory, from between the two cherubim, which are upon the ark of the testimony,—whatsoever I may give thee in charge, for the sons of Israel.
And thou shalt make a table, of acacia wood, two cubits, the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
and thou shalt overlay it with pure gold,—and shalt make thereto a rim of gold, round about;
and thou shalt make thereto a border of a handbreadth, round about,—and shalt make a rim of gold to the border thereof, round about;
and thou shalt make to it four rings of gold,—and shalt place the rings on the four corners which pertain to the four feet thereof:
adjoining the border, shall be the rings,—as receptacles for the staves, for lifting the table;
and thou shalt make the staves of acacia wood, and shalt overlay them with gold,—and the table shall be lifted there, with;
and thou shalt make its dishes and its pans and its basins and its bowls, for pouring out therewith,—of pure gold, shalt thou make them.
And thou shalt place upon the table Presence-bread, before me continually.
And thou shalt make a lampstand of pure gold, of beaten work, shall the lampstand be made, even its base and its shaft its cups, its apples, and its blossoms of the same, shall be:
with, six branches, coming out of its sides, three branches of the lampstand, out the one side thereof, and three branches of the lampstand, out of the other side thereof:
three cups like almond-flowers, in the one branch apple and blossom, and, three cups like almond-flowers, in the other branch apple and blossom, so, for the six branches, coming out of the lampstand.
And in the lampstand itself, four cups,—like almond-flowers—its apples, and its blossoms;
and an apple under two branches of the same, and, another apple, under two other branches of the same, and another apple under two other branches, of the same,—for the six branches, coming out of the lampstand:
their apples and their branches, of the same, shall be,—all of it, of one beaten work, of pure gold.
And thou shalt make the lamps thereof seven, and one shall light up its lamps, and it shall give light, over against the face thereof.
And, its snuffers, and its snuff-trays of pure gold.
With a talent of pure gold, shall he make it, with all these vessels,
And see thou and make them, by the pattern of them, which thou wast caused to behold in the mount