AND on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalen came very early, whilst yet some darkness remained, to the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre.
She therefore runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him.
Then Peter went out, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre.
And they two ran together: and the other disciple ran before more swiftly than Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.
And stooping forward, he sees the swathing clothes lying there; yet he did not go in.
Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and saw the swathing clothes lying,
and the napkin, which had been round his head, not laid with the linen swathes, but apart folded up in another place.
Then went in also the other disciple, who had come the first to the sepulchre, and saw, and believed.
Though not even yet had they known the scripture, that he should rise from the dead.
Then the disciples went back again to their companions.
But Mary stood at the sepulchre, without, weeping: as therefore she wept, she bent forward towards the sepulchre.
And saw two angels in white, sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.
And as she thus spoke, she turned about, and beheld Jesus standing by, and knew not that it was Jesus.
Then Jesus said to her, Woman, why art thou weeping? whom art thou seeking? She, supposing that it was the gardener, said to him, Sir, if thou hast carried him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.
Jesus saith to her, Mary! Starting round, she said to him, Rabboni! that is, Master!
Jesus saith to her, Touch me not; for I have not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and tell them, I am ascending to my Father, and your Father; to my God, and your God.
Mary Magdalen cometh declaring to the disciples, that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things to her.
When the evening therefore was come, on the same first day of the week, and the doors being fastened where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and said unto them, Peace be to you.
And thus speaking, he shewed them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord.
Jesus therefore spake to them again, Peace be unto you: as the Father hath sent me, even so send I you.
And so speaking, he breathed on them, and said, Receive the Holy Ghost:
whose soever sins ye forgive, they are forgiven them; and whose sins soever ye retain, they are retained.
Now Thomas, one of the twelve, who is called Didymus, the twin, was not with them when Jesus came.
Then the other disciples said to him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Except I should see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I shall never believe it.
And eight days after, his disciples were again within, and Thomas with them: Jesus cometh, though the doors were fastened, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you.
Afterwards he spake to Thomas, Bring hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and take thy hand, and thrust into my side: and be not incredulous, but a believer.
And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God!
Jesus saith to him, Because thou hast seen me, Thomas, hast thou believed: blessed are they who though they have not seen me, yet have believed.
Now many other miracles did Jesus therefore also in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book:
but these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name.