And Jehoshaphat lay with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And his son Jehoram reigned in his place.
And he had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah; all these were the sons of Jehoshaphat the king of Israel.
And their father gave to them many gifts of silver and gold, and of precious things, with fortified cities of Judah; but he gave the kingdom to Jehoram, for he was the firstborn.
And Jehoram rose up over the kingdom of his father and made himself strong. And he killed all his brothers with the sword, and also of the leaders of Israel.
Jehoram was a son of thirty two years when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years.
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, for a daughter of Ahab was his wife; and he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah.
And Jehovah was not willing to destroy the house of David, for the sake of the covenant that He made with David, and as He had spoken, to give a lamp to him and to his sons forever.
In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and made a king to reign over them.
And Jehoram passed over with his chiefs, and all the chariots with him; and it happened that he rose up by night and struck the Edomites who were coming all around him; and the commanders of the chariots.
And Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at that time from under his hand, because he had forsaken Jehovah, the God of his fathers.
Also, he had made high places in the mountains of Judah, and caused the people of Jerusalem to commit fornication, and led astray Judah.
And a writing came to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, So says Jehovah, the God of your father David, Because you have not walked in the ways of your father Jehoshaphat, and in the ways of Asa the king of Judah,
and you walk in the way of the kings of Israel, and caused Judah and the people of Jerusalem to commit fornication like the fornications of the house of Ahab; and also you have killed your brothers, the house of your father, who were better than yourself;
behold, Jehovah shall strike with a great destruction among your people, and among your sons, and among your wives, and among all your goods;
and you, with many sicknesses, with disease in your bowels, until your bowels come out because of the sickness, day by day.
And Jehovah awakened the spirit of the Philistines against Jehoram, and of the Arabians who were beside the Ethiopians;
and they came up into Judah and broke into it, and captured all the substance that was found at the king's house, and also his sons, and his wives; and there was not left to him a son except Jehoahaz the youngest of his sons.
And after this, Jehovah plagued him in his bowels by disease for which there was no healing;
and it happened, from days to days, and as the time went out, the end of two years of days, his bowels went out because of his sickness; so he died of painful diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the burning of his fathers.
He was a son of thirty two years when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem; and he left without being desired, and they buried him in the city of David, but not in the graves of the kings.