And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
If a soul sins, and acts unfaithfully against the LORD, and lies to his neighbor as to a deposit-- or as to security, or by robbery, or has extorted his neighbor,
or has found that which was lost and lies concerning it and swears falsely-- in any of all these that a man does, sinning in it,
then, it shall be, because he sinned and is guilty, he shall pay back that which he got by robbery; or if he robbed the thing extorted; or the deposit which had been deposited with him; or the lost thing which he had found;
or all that which he swore about falsely, --he shall even repay it in its principal, and the fifth part he shall add to it, to whomever it belongs. He shall give it on the day of his guilt offering.
And he shall bring his trespass offering to the LORD, a ram without blemish out of the flock, together with an amount set by you, for a trespass offering, to the priest.
And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD, and it shall be forgiven him for anything of all that he has done by being guilty in it.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. It is the burnt offering for burning on the altar all night to the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it.
And the priest shall put on his linen garment. And he shall put his linen breeches on his flesh and take up the ashes which the fire has consumed with the burnt offering on the altar. And he shall put them beside the altar.
And he shall strip off his garments and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.
And the fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it. It shall not be put out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and lay the burnt offering in order on it. And he shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings.
The fire shall always be burning on the altar. It shall never go out.
And this is the law of the food offering. The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD before the altar.
And he shall take from it his handful of the flour of the food offering, and of the oil of it, and all the frankincense which is on the food offering, and shall burn it on the altar for a sweet savor, the memorial of it, to the LORD.
And the rest of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten with unleavened bread in the holy place. They shall eat it in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation.
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of My offerings made by fire. It is most holy, as is the sin offering, and as the trespass offering is.
All the males among the sons of Aaron shall eat of it. It shall be a statute forever in your generations concerning the offerings of the LORD made by fire. Everyone that touches them shall be holy.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to the LORD in the day he is anointed, the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a continual food offering, half of it in the morning and half of it at night.
It shall be made in a pan with oil; you shall bring it in. And you shall offer the baked pieces of the food offering, a sweet savor to the LORD.
And the priest of his sons, who is anointed in his stead, shall offer it. It is a statute forever to the LORD. It shall be wholly burnt.
For every food offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt. It shall not be eaten.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering. In the place where the burnt offering is killed, the sin offering shall be killed before the LORD. It is most holy.
The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. It shall be eaten in the holy place, in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Whatever shall touch its flesh shall be holy. And when any of its blood is sprinkled on any garment, you shall wash that on which it was sprinkled in the holy place.
But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken. And if it is boiled in a bronze pot, it shall be both scoured and rinsed in water.
All the males among the priests shall eat of it. It is most holy.
And no sin offering, of which any of the blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation for atonement in the sanctuary, shall be eaten. It shall be burned up in the fire.