Let each one so think of us as ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Now it is required in stewards, that each one be found faithful.
But with me, it matters very little, that I should be judged by you, or by the judgment of men: indeed, I do not judge myself.
For, though I am conscious of no wrong, yet by this I am not justified: but he that judges me is the Lord.
So, then, judge nothing before the time, till the Lord comes, who will bring to light the secret works of darkness, and will also make manifest the counsels of the hearts: and then shall each have his praise from God.
And these things, brethren, I have, in figure, applied to myself and Apollos, for your sakes, that you may learn in us not to think more of teachers than what has been written; and that no one of you be vain of one to the injury of another.
For who gave you distinction, as a teacher? And what have you as a teacher, that you did not receive? And if you received it, why do you boast, as if you had not received it?
You, Corinthians, are already full; you are already rich; you have reigned as kings independently of us. And that you did indeed reign, that we also might reign with you!
For I think that God has appointed us the apostles, to the lowest place, as under sentence of death; for we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men.
We are fools for Christ’s sake, but you are wise in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are honored, but we are despised.
Even to this present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are poorly clothed, and are maltreated, and wander about without a home,
and labor, working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure;
when defamed, we entreat; we have become like the outcasts of the world, the offscouring of all things to this day.
I do not write these things that I may make you ashamed; but as my beloved children I admonish you.
For though you have ten thousand tutors in Christ, yet you have not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel.
I exhort you, therefore, be imitators of me.
For this reason have I sent to you Timothy, who is my son, beloved and faithful in the Lord, that he may remind you of my ways that are in Christ, as I teach everywhere, in every church.
Now, some have become arrogant, as if I were not coming to you;
but I will come to you quickly, if the Lord will; and I will know, not the speech of those who have become arrogant, but the power.
For the kingdom of God is not in speech, but in power.
What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod, or in love, and in the spirit of gentleness?