Then ye kyngdome of heven shalbe lykened vnto .x. virgins which toke their lampes and wet to mete the brydgrome:
fyve of them were folysshe and fyve were wyse.
The folysshe toke their lampes but toke none oyle wt the.
But ye wyse tooke oyle wt the in their vesselles wt their lampes also.
Whill the brydgrome taryed all slombred and slepte.
And even at mydnyght there was a crye made: beholde the brydgrome cometh goo out against him.
Then all those virgins arose and prepared their lampes.
And ye folysshe sayde to ye wyse: geve vs of youre oyle for our lampes goo out?
but ye wyse answered sayinge. Not so lest ther be not ynough for vs and you: but goo rather to them yt sell and by for youre selves.
And whill they went to bye ye brydgrome came: and they yt were redy went in with him to ye weddinge and the gate was shett vp:
Afterwardes came also ye other virgins sayinge: master master open to vs.
But he answered and sayde: verely I saye vnto you: I knowe not you.
Watche therefore: for ye knowe nether the daye nor yet the houre when the sonne of man shall come.
Lykwyse as a certeyne ma redy to take his iorney to a straunge coutre called his servautes and delivered to them his gooddes.
And vnto one he gave .v. talentes to another .ii. and to another one: to every man after his abilite and streyght waye departed.
Then he that had receaved the fyve talentes went and bestowed them and wanne other fyve talentes.
Lykwyse he that receaved .ii. gayned other .ii.
But he yt receaved ye one went and digged a pit in the erth and hyd his masters money.
After a longe season ye lorde of those servauntes came and rekened with the.
Then came he yt had receaved fyve talentes and brought other fyve talentes sayinge: master thou deliveredst vnto one fyve talentes: beholde I have gayned wt the fyve talentes moo.
The his master sayde vnto him: well good servaut and faithfull. Thou hast bene faithfull in lytell I will make the ruler over moche: entre in into thy masters ioye.
Also he that receaved .ii. talentes came and sayde: master thou deliveredest vnto me .ii. talentes: beholde I have wone .ii. other talentes with them.
And his master sayde vnto him well good servaunt and faithfull. Thou hast bene faithfull in lytell I wyll make the ruler over moche: go in into thy masters ioye.
Then he which had receaved ye one talent came and sayd: master I considered yt thou wast an harde man which repest where thou sowedst not and gadderest where thou strawedst not
and was therfore afrayde and went and hyd thy talent in ye erth: Beholde thou hast thyn awne.
His master answered and sayde vnto him: thou evyll servaut and slewthfull thou knewest yt I repe where I sowed not and gaddre where I strawed not:
thou oughtest therfore to have had my money to ye chaugers and then at my comynge shulde I have receaved myne awne with vauntage.
Take therfore the talent from him and geve it vnto him which hath .x. talentes.
For vnto every man that hath shalbe geven and he shall have aboundance: and from him that hath not shalbe taken awaye even that he hath.
And cast yt vnprofitable servaunt into vtter dercknes: there shalbe wepynge and gnasshinge of teeth.
When the sonne of ma cometh in his glorie and all the holy angels wt him then shall he syt vpon the seate of his glorie
and before him shalbe Gaddred all nacions. And he shall seperate the one from a nother as a shepherde deuideth the shepe from the gootes.
And he shall set the shepe on his right honde and the gotes on the lyfte.
Then shall the kynge saye to them on his right honde: Come ye blessed chyldren of my father inheret ye the kyngdo prepared for you from the beginninge of the worlde.
For I was anhongred and ye gave me meate. I thursted and ye gave me drinke. I was herbourlesse and ye lodged me.
I was naked and ye clothed me. I was sicke and ye visited me. I was in preson and ye came vnto me.
Then shall ye righteous answere him sayinge master whe sawe we ye anhongred and feed the? or a thurst and gave ye drinke?
when sawe we ye herbourlesse and lodged the? or naked and clothed the?
or when sawe we the sicke or in preson and came vnto the?
And ye kynge shall answere and saye vnto them: verely I saye vnto you: in as moche as ye have done it vnto one of ye leest of these my brethren ye have done it to me.
Then shall the kynge saye vnto them that shalbe on the lyfte hande: departe from me ye coursed into everlastinge fire which is prepared for the devyll and his angels.
For I was an hungred and ye gave me no meate. I thursted and ye gave me no drinke.
I was herbourlesse and ye lodged me not. I was naked and ye clothed me not. I was sicke and in preson and ye visited me not.
Then shall they also answere him sayinge: master when sawe we the an hungred or a thurst or herbourlesse or naked or sicke or in preson and did not ministre vnto the?
Then shall he answere the and saye: Verely I saye vnto you in as moche as ye did it not to one of ye leest of these ye did it not to me.
And these shall go into everlastinge payne: And the righteous into lyfe eternall.