AND the Pharisees and the Sadducees came to him, and, to make trial of him, desired him to shew them a sign from heaven.
And he answering, said unto them, When evening comes, ye say, Fair weather, for the sky is red.
And in the morning, It will be tempestuous to-day, for the sky is gloomy and fiery red. Ye hypocrites, do ye know how to discern the appearance of the sky, and are ye unable to discern the signs of the times?
A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh a sign; and no sign shall be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. And he left them, and departed.
And when his disciples were come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread.
Then Jesus said to them, Beware and abstain from the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
So they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have not taken bread.
But when Jesus knew it, he said unto them, Why are ye reasoning among yourselves, O ye of little faith, because ye have not taken bread?
Do you not consider, nor remember the five loaves among the five thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
Nor the seven loaves among the four thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
How is it that ye do not understand, that I spake not to you of bread, to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
Then understood they, that he spake about abstaining not from the leaven in the bread, but from the doctrine of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.
Then Jesus coming into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, questioned his disciples, saying, Who do men say that I am? The Son of Man?
But they replied, Some, that thou art John the Baptist; but others, Elias; and others again, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
He saith unto them, But who do ye say that I am?
Then Simon Peter answering said, Thou art the Messiah, the Son of the living God.
And Jesus replying, said to him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed this to thee, but my Father, who is in heaven.
And I tell thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock will I build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
And I will give thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Then he commanded his disciples, that they should tell no man that he was Jesus the Messiah.
From that time Jesus began to shew his disciples, that he must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders, and of the chief-priests, and of the scribes, and be put to death, and the third day rise again.
And Peter taking him aside, began to chide him, saying, Mercy on thee, Lord! this shall never be thy case.
Then turning from him, he said unto Peter, Get thee behind me Satan! thou art an offence to me: for thou dost not relish the things of God, but those of men.
Then said Jesus to his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whosoever is desirous to preserve his life, shall lose it; but whosoever would lose his life for my sake, shall find it.
For what would a man be advantaged, though he could gain the whole world, if he should suffer the loss of his soul? or what will a man give as the ransom for his soul?
For the Son of man shall hereafter come in the glory of his Father, with his angels, and then shall he recompense every man according to his practice.
Verily I say unto you, There are some of those standing here, who shall in no wise taste of death, until they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.