And having escaped, we learned that the island was called Melita.
And the barbarians showed us no little kindness; for they kindled a fire, and received us all, because of the rain which had come on, and because of the cold.
And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid it on the fire, there came forth a viper by reason of the heat, and fastened on his hand.
And when the barbarians saw the animal hanging from his hand, they said to one another, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom though he hath escaped the sea, Justice hath not permitted to live.
He, however, shaking off the animal into the fire suffered no harm.
But they were looking for his becoming swollen, or suddenly falling down dead. But after looking a great while, and seeing no harm come to him they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.
And in the neighborhood of that place were lands be longing to the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius; who welcomed us, and entertained us kindly three days.
And it happened that the father of Publius was lying sick with a fever and dysentery; to whom Paul went in, and, when he had prayed, laid his hands on him, and healed him.
And when this was done, the others also who had diseases in the island came, and were healed;
who also honored us with many honors, and when we put to sea, loaded us with such things as were necessary.
And after three months we put to sea in a ship of Alexandria, which had wintered in the island, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.
And landing at Syracuse, we stayed there three days;
and from thence we made a circuit, and came to Rhegium; and after one day a south wind arose, and we came on the second day to Puteoli,
where we found brethren, and were entreated to remain with them seven days; and so we went toward Rome.
And from thence, the brethren having heard of us came to meet us as far as Appii Forum, and the Three Taverns; at the sight of whom Paul thanked God and took courage.
And when we had come to Rome, Paul was permitted to dwell by himself, with the soldier that guarded him.
And it came to pass that after three days he called together the chief men of the Jews, and when they had met he said to them, Brethren, I, though I had done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, was delivered up a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans;
who, when they had examined me, wished to release me, because I had done nothing deserving death.
But when the Jews spoke against it, I was constrained to appeal to Caesar; not that I had any charge to bring against my nation.
For this reason therefore I have called for you, to see you and speak to you; for it is on account of the hope of Israel that I am bound with this chain.
And they said to him, We neither received letters from Judea concerning thee, nor did any one of the brethren that came report or speak any evil of thee.
But we think it proper to hear from thee what thou thinkest; for with regard to this sect, we know that it is everywhere spoken against.
And when they had appointed him a day, many came to him at his lodging; to whom he expounded, and earnestly testified, the kingdom of God, endeavoring to persuade them concerning Jesus both from the Law of Moses, and from the Prophets, from morning till evening.
And some believed the things spoken, and some believed not.
So, disagreeing with one another, they took their departure, after Paul had spoken one word: Well did the Holy Spirit speak through Isaiah the prophet to your fathers,
saying, "Go to this people, and say, ‘Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see and not perceive.
For the heart of this people hath become gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed; lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart and turn from their ways, and I should heal them.’"
Be it therefore known to you, that to the gentiles this salvation of God hath been sent; they, moreover, will hear.

And he abode two whole years in his own hired house and gladly received all that came in to him,
proclaiming the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, without hindrance from any one.