My heart also trembles at this, and it leaps from its place.
Listen carefully to the thunder of His voice, and the rumbling that comes out from His mouth.
He lets it loose under the whole heavens, and His lightning to the wings of the earth.
After it, a voice roars; He thunders with His majestic voice; and He will not hold them back when His voice is heard.
God thunders wondrously with His voice; He does great things, and we do not know.
For He says to the snow, Fall on the earth; also to the shower of rain, and the shower of heavy rains.
He seals up the hand of every man, so that all men may know His work.
Then the beast goes into its lair, and they stay in their dens.
Out of the storeroom comes the tempest, and cold from scattering winds.
Ice is given by God's breath, and the expanse of waters is frozen.
Yea, He loads the cloud with moisture; He scatters His lightning cloud;
and it is turned around by His guidance, so that they may do whatever He commands them on the face of the world of the earth.
Whether as a whip, or for His land, or for mercy, He finds it.
Listen to this, O Job; stand still and consider the wonderful works of God.
Do you know when God placed them, and caused the lightning of His cloud to shine?
Do you know the balance of the clouds, the wonderful works of Him who is perfect in knowledge,
you whose garments are warm when the earth is still from the south wind?
Can you beat out the expanse with Him, hard like a cast mirror?
Make us know what we shall say to Him; for we cannot arrange our case because of darkness.
Shall it be told to Him that I would speak? If a man speaks, surely he will be swallowed up.
And now men cannot look upon the light when it is bright in the clouds; when the wind has passed and cleared them.
Golden splendor comes out of the north; God is awesome in His majesty.
We cannot find Him, the Almighty; He is exalted in power; and He does not violate justice and abundant righteousness.
So, men, fear Him; He does not regard any who are wise of heart.