And when he had ended all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he went into Capernaum.
And a certain centurion’s servant, who was dear to him, was sick, and about to die.
But when he heard of Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, and besought him to come and save his servant.
And they came to Jesus, and besought him earnestly, saying: He is worthy for whom thou shouldst do this;
for he loves our nation, and of his own accord has built us a synagogue.
And Jesus went with them.   And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, and said to him: Lord, give thyself no trouble; for I am not worthy that thou shouldst come under my roof.
For which reason, neither did I count myself worthy to go to thee; but command in a word, and my servant shall be healed.
For I am a man placed under authority, and have soldiers under me; and I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does it.
And when Jesus heard these things, he was filled with admiration for him; and, turning to the multitude that followed, he said: I say to you, Not even in Israel have I found so great faith.
And they that had been sent, returned to the house, and found the servant that had been sick restored to health.
And it came to pass, the next day, that he was going to a city called Nain; and many of his disciples and a great multitude followed him.
And when he came near the gate of tho city, behold, they were carrying out a dead man, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow; and a great multitude from the city was with her.
And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said to her: Weep not.
And he went and touched the bier; and those who were carrying it, stood still. And he said: Young man, I say to you, Arise.
And he that had been dead, sat up and began to speak; and he gave him to his mother.
And fear seized on all; and they glorified God, saying: A great prophet has arisen among us; and, God has visited his people.
And this report concerning him went abroad into all Judea and all the neighboring region.
And the disciples of John told him of all these things.
And John called to him two of his disciples, and sent them to Jesus, and said: Art thou he that was to come, or must we look for another?
And the men came to him and said: John the Immerser has sent us to thee, and says, Art thou he that was to come, or must we look for another?
And in that very hour he cured many of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and bestowed sight on many that were blind.
And Jesus answered and said to them: Go and tell John what you have seen and heard; that the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel preached to them;
and blessed is he who shall find no cause of offense in me.
And when the messengers of John had departed, he began to say to the multitudes concerning John: What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that wear splendid apparel, and live in luxury, are in kings houses.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet.
This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.
For I say to you, Among those born of women, there is no prophet greater than John the Immerser. But the least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
And all the people, and the publicans that heard him, vindicated God, by being immersed with the immersion of John;
but the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God in regard to themselves, by not being immersed by him.
To what, then, shall I compare the men of this generation? and to what are they like?
They are like children sitting in the market-place, who call to one another, and say, We have played on the pipe for you, and you have not danced; we have sung mournful songs for you, and you have not lamented.
For John the Immerser came, neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, He has a demon.
The Son of man has come, eating and drinking, and you say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drinker of wine, a friend of publicans and sinners.
Yet wisdom is vindicated by all her children.
And one of the Pharisees invited him to eat with him. And he went into the house of the Pharisee, and reclined at table.
And, behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner, when she knew that he reclined at table in the house of the Pharisee, brought an alabaster box of ointment,
and stood behind at his feet, weeping; and she began to wash his feet with her tears; and she wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet and anointed them with the ointment.
But when the Pharisee who had invited him, saw it, he said within himself: This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who, and what sort of woman this is that touches him; for she is a sinner.
And Jesus answered and said to him: Simon, I have something to say to you. He replied: Teacher, say on.
A certain creditor had two debtors; the one owed him five hundred denarii, the other, fifty.
But as they had nothing to pay, he forgave them both. Which of them, then, will love him the more?
Simon answered and said: I suppose he to whom he forgave the more. He said to him: You have decided correctly.
And turning toward the woman, he said to Simon: Do you see this woman? I entered your house, you gave me no water for my feet; but she has washed my feet with her tears, and wiped them with her hair.
You gave me no kiss; but she, from the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet.
You did not anoint my head with oil; but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
Wherefore, I say to you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much. But he to whom little is forgiven, loves little.
And he said to her: Your sins are forgiven.
And those who reclined at table with him began to say within themselves: Who is this that also forgives sins?
But he said to the woman: Your faith has saved you; go in peace.