Then he led me forth to the outer court, in the direction toward the north, and he brought me to the rooms which were before the separate place, and before the building toward the north.
The length was a hundred cubits before the gate toward the north, and the breadth was fifty cubits;
over against the twenty cubits in the inner court, and over against the pavement in the outer court, was gallery before gallery, in three rows.
And before the chambers was a walk of ten cubits breadth inward, a way of one cubit; and their doors were toward the north.
And the upper rooms were narrower (for the galleries took away room from them) than the lower and middle chambers of the building.
For they were in three stories; but had not pillars, as the pillars of the courts; therefore they were narrower than the lowest, and than the middlemost from the ground.
And as to the wall that was without, over against the chambers, toward the outer court, before the chambers, the length thereof was fifty cubits.
For the length of the rooms that were in the outer court was fifty cubits; but before the temple it was a hundred cubits.
And under these rooms was an entry from the east, as one came to them from the outer court.
In the breadth of the wall of the court toward the east, before the separate place and before the building, were rooms.
And there was a way before them similar to that before the rooms toward the north. Both their length and their breadth were the same, and all their goings out and their fashions and their doors were the same.
And so also were the doors of the rooms toward the south; there was a door at the head of the way, before the well-built wall in the way toward the east, as one entered into them.
Then he said to me, The north rooms and the south rooms, which are before the separate place, are holy rooms, where the priests, when they come near to Jehovah, eat the most holy things. There shall they lay the most holy things, both the flour-offering and the sin-offering and the trespass-offering; for the place is holy.
When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out of the holy place into the outer court, but shall leave there the garments in which they minister; for they are holy; and shall put on other garments, and approach to the place which belongeth to the people.
Now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, he brought me forth to the gate, whose prospect is toward the east, and measured it round about.
He measured the east side with the measuring-reed, five hundred reeds with the measuring-reed round about.
He measured the north side five hundred reeds with the measuring-reed round about.
He measured the south side five hundred reeds with the measuring-reed.
He turned himself also to the west side, and measured five hundred reeds with the measuring-reed.
On all the four sides measured he the wall round about five hundred reeds in length, and five hundred in breadth, to make a separation between the holy and the unholy place.