The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah in the tenth year of Zedekiah, king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar.
Now at that time the king of Babylon's army was besieging Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the guard, which was in the king of Judah's house.
For Zedekiah king of Judah had shut him up, saying, Why do thou prophesy, and say, Thus says Jehovah: Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it.
And Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes shall behold his eyes.
And he shall bring Zedekiah to Babylon, and there he shall be until I visit him, says Jehovah. Though ye fight with the Chaldeans, ye shall not prosper?
And Jeremiah said, The word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Behold, Hanamel the son of Shallum thine uncle shall come to thee, saying, Buy thee my field that is in Anathoth. For the right of redemption is thine to buy it.
So Hanamel my uncle's son came to me in the court of the guard according to the word of Jehovah, and said to me, Buy my field, I pray thee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the land of Benjamin. For the right of inheritance is thine, and the redemption is thine. Buy it for thyself. Then I knew that this was the word of Jehovah.
And I bought the field that was in Anathoth of Hanamel my uncle's son, and weighed him the money, even seventeen shekels of silver.
And I signed the deed, and sealed it, and called witnesses, and weighed him the money in the balances.
So I took the deed of the purchase, both that which was sealed, according to the law and custom, and that which was open,
and I delivered the deed of the purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, in the presence of Hanamel my uncle's son, and in the presence of the witnesses who signed the deed of the purchase, before all the Jews who sat in the court of the guard.
And I charged Baruch before them, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Take these deeds, this deed of the purchase which is sealed, and this deed which is open, and put them in an earthen vessel that they may continue many days.
For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards shall yet again be bought in this land.
Now after I had delivered the deed of the purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed to Jehovah, saying,
Ah lord Jehovah! Behold, thou have made the heavens and the earth by thy great power and by thine outstretched arm. There is nothing too hard for thee,
who show loving kindness to thousands, and recompense the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their sons after them, the great, the mighty God. Jehovah of hosts is his name,
great in counsel, and mighty in work, whose eyes are open upon all the ways of the sons of men, to give everyone according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings,
who set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, even to this day, both in Israel and among other men, and made thee a name, as at this day,
and brought forth thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terror,
and gave them this land, which thou swore to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey.
And they came in, and possessed it, but they obeyed not thy voice, nor walked in thy law. They have done nothing of all that thou commanded them to do. Therefore thou have caused all this evil to come upon them.
Behold, the mounds. They have come to the city to take it. And the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans who fight against it, because of the sword, and of the famine, and of the pestilence. And what thou have spoken has come to pass, and, behold, thou see it.
And thou have said to me, O lord Jehovah, Buy thee the field for money, and call witnesses, whereas the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.
Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
Behold, I am Jehovah, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me?
Therefore thus says Jehovah: Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall take it.
And the Chaldeans, who fight against this city, shall come and set this city on fire, and burn it, with the houses upon whose roofs they have offered incense to Baal, and poured out drink offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger.
For the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah have done only that which was evil in my sight from their youth. For the sons of Israel have only provoked me to anger with the work of their hands, says Jehovah.
For this city has been to me a provocation of my anger and of my wrath from the day that they built it even to this day, that I should remove it from before my face,
because of all the evil of the sons of Israel and of the sons of Judah, which they have done to provoke me to anger, they, their kings, their rulers, their priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
And they have turned the back to me, and not the face. And though I taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet they have not hearkened to receive instruction.
But they set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it.
And they built the high places of Baal, which are in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire to Molech, which I did not command them, nor did it come into my mind, that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah to sin.
And now therefore thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, concerning this city, of which ye say, It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence:
Behold, I will gather them out of all the countries where I have driven them in my anger, and in my wrath, and in great indignation. And I will bring them again to this place, and I will cause them to dwell safely.
And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
And I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for the good of them, and of their sons after them.
And I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from following them, to do them good. And I will put my fear in their hearts, that they may not depart from me.
Yea, I will rejoice over them to do them good. And I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole soul.
For thus says Jehovah: Just as I have brought all this great evil upon this people, so I will bring upon them all the good that I have promised them.
And fields shall be bought in this land, of which ye say, It is desolate, without man or beast. It is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.
Men shall buy fields for money, and sign the deeds, and seal them, and call witnesses, in the land of Benjamin, and in the places around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the hill-country, and in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the South. For I will cause their captivity to return, says Jehovah.