Better is a dry morsell, if peace be with it, then an house full of sacrifices with strife.
A discrete seruant shall haue rule ouer a lewde sonne, and hee shall deuide the heritage among the brethren.
As is the fining pot for siluer, and the fornace for golde, so the Lord trieth the heartes.
The wicked giueth heed to false lippes, and a lyer hearkeneth to the naughtie tongue.
Hee that mocketh the poore, reprocheth him, that made him: and he that reioyceth at destruction, shall not be vnpunished.
Childres children are the crowne of the elders: and the glory of ye children are their fathers.
Hie talke becommeth not a foole, much lesse a lying talke a prince.
A rewarde is as a stone pleasant in the eyes of them that haue it: it prospereth, whithersoeuer it turneth.
Hee that couereth a transgression, seeketh loue: but hee that repeateth a matter, separateth the prince.
A reproofe entereth more into him that hath vnderstanding, then an hundreth stripes into a foole.
A sedicious person seeketh onely euill, and a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
It is better for a man to meete a beare robbed of her whelpes, then a foole in his follie.
He that rewardeth euil for good, euil shall not depart from his house.
The beginning of strife is as one that openeth the waters: therefore or the contention be medled with, leaue off.
He that iustifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the iust, euen they both are abomination to the Lord.
Wherefore is there a price in the hand of the foole to get wisdome, and he hath none heart?
A friende loueth at all times: and a brother is borne for aduersitie.
A man destitute of vnderstanding, toucheth the hande, and becommeth suretie for his neighbour.
He loueth transgression, that loueth strife: and he that exalteth his gate, seeketh destruction.
The froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a naughtie tongue, shall fall into euill.
He that begetteth a foole, getteth himselfe sorow, and the father of a foole can haue no ioy.
A ioyfull heart causeth good health: but a sorowfull minde dryeth the bones.
A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosome to wrest the wayes of iudgement.
Wisdome is in the face of him that hath vnderstanding: but the eyes of a foole are in the corners of the world.
A foolish sonne is a griefe vnto his father, and a heauines to her that bare him.
Surely it is not good to condemne the iust, nor that ye princes should smite such for equitie.
Hee that hath knowledge, spareth his wordes, and a man of vnderstanding is of an excellent spirit.
Euen a foole (when he holdeth his peace) is counted wise, and hee that stoppeth his lips, prudent.