My son, if thou hast become surety for another, If thou hast stricken hands for another,
If thou hast become ensnared by the words of thy mouth, If thou hast been caught by the words of thy mouth,
Do this now, my son, and rescue thyself,—Since thou hast fallen into the hands of thy neighbor,—Go, prostrate thyself, and be urgent with thy neighbor!
Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids;
Rescue thyself, as a roe from the hand, And as a bird from the hand of the fowler.
Go to the ant, O sluggard! Consider her ways, and be wise!
She hath no governor, Nor overseer, nor ruler;
Yet she prepareth in the summer her food, She gathereth in the harvest her meat.
How long wilt thou lie in bed, O sluggard? When wilt thou arise from thy sleep?
"A little sleep,—a little slumber,—A little folding of the hands to rest:"
So shall thy poverty come upon thee like a robber, Yea, thy want, as an armed man!
A worthless wretch is the unrighteous man, Who walketh with a deceitful mouth;
Who winketh with his eyes, Speaketh with his feet, And teacheth with his fingers.
Fraud is in his heart; He deviseth mischief continually; He scattereth contentions.
Therefore shall calamity come upon him suddenly; In a moment shall he be destroyed, and that without remedy;
These six things doth the LORD hate; Yea, seven are an abomination to him:
Lofty eyes, a false tongue, And hands which shed innocent blood;
A heart that contriveth wicked devices; Feet that are swift in running to mischief,
A false witness, that uttereth lies, And him that soweth discord among brethren.
Keep, O my son! the commandment of thy father, And forsake not the precepts of thy mother!
Bind them continually to thy heart, Tie them around thy neck!
When thou goest forth, they shall guide thee; When thou sleepest, they shall watch over thee; And, when thou awakest, they shall talk with thee.
For the commandment is a lamp, and instruction a light; Yea, the rebukes of correction lead to life.
They shall guard thee from the evil woman, From the smooth tongue of the unchaste woman.
Desire not her beauty in thy heart, Nor let her catch thee with her eyelids;
For by a harlot a man is brought to a morsel of bread, And the adulteress layeth snares for the precious life.
Can a man take fire into his bosom, And his clothes not be burned?
Can one walk upon burning coals, And his feet not be scorched?
So is it with him who goeth in to his neighbor’s wife; Whoever toucheth her shall not go unpunished.
Men do not overlook a thief, Though he steal to satisfy his appetite, when he is hungry;
If found, he must repay sevenfold, And give up all the substance of his house.
Whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding; He that doeth it destroyeth himself;
Blows and dishonor shall he get, And his reproach shall not be wiped away.
For jealousy is the fury of a man; He will not spare in the day of vengeance;
And he will not pay regard to any ransom, Nor be content, though thou offer many gifts.