Then, six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was (who had died, whom He raised from the dead).
Then they made a supper there for Him. And Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those reclining with Him.
Then Mary took a pound of ointment of pure spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the odor of the ointment.
Then said one of His disciples (Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, who was to betray Him)
Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?
He said this, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and held the moneybag and carried the things put in.
Then Jesus said, Let her alone. She has kept this for the day of My burial.
For you have the poor with you always; but you do not always have Me.
Then a great crowd of the Jews learned that He was there. And they did not come for Jesus' sake only, but also that they might see Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead.
But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus to death also,
because many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus because of him.
On the next day, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, a great crowd who had come to the Feast
took branches of palm trees and went out to meet Him. And they cried, Hosanna! "Blessed is the King of Israel who comes in the name of the Lord!"
And finding an ass colt, Jesus sat on it; as it is written,
"Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your King comes sitting on the foal of an ass."
But His disciples did not know these things at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of Him, and that they had done these things to Him.
Then the crowd witnessed, those who were with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead.
Because of this the crowd also met Him, because they heard that He had done this miracle.
Then the Pharisees said among themselves, Do you see how you gain nothing? Behold, the world has gone after Him.
And there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the Feast.
Then these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we want to see Jesus.
Philip came and told Andrew. And again Andrew and Philip told Jesus.
And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come that the Son of man should be glorified.
Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it brings forth much fruit.
He who loves his life shall lose it. And he who hates his life in this world shall keep it to life eternal.
If anyone serves Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there also My servant shall be. If anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him.
And My soul is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save Me from this hour? But for this cause I came to this hour.
Father, glorify Your name! Then there came a voice from the heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again.
Then the crowd who stood by and heard said that it thundered. Others said, An angel spoke to Him.
Jesus answered and said, This voice did not come because of Me, but for your sakes.
Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out.
And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all to Myself.
But He said this, signifying what kind of death He was about to die.
The crowd answered Him, We have heard out of the law that Christ lives forever. How do you say, The Son of man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of man?
Then Jesus said to them, Yet a little while the Light is with you. Walk while you have the Light, lest darkness come upon you. For he who walks in darkness does not know where he goes.
While you have the Light, believe in the Light so that you may become sons of Light. Jesus spoke these things and departed and was hidden from them.
But though He had done so many miracles before them, yet they did not believe on Him,
so that the saying of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke, "Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?"
Therefore they could not believe, because Isaiah said again,
"He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, so that they should not see with their eyes nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them."
Isaiah said these things when he saw His glory and spoke of Him.
Still, however, even out of the rulers, many did believe on Him. But because of the Pharisees they did not confess, lest they should be put out of the synagogue;
for they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.
But Jesus cried out and said, He who believes on Me does not believe on Me but on Him who sent Me.
And he who sees Me sees Him who sent Me.
I have come as a Light into the world, so that whoever believes on Me should not remain in darkness.
And if any one hears My words and does not believe, I do not judge him, for I do not come to judge the world, but to save the world.
He who rejects Me and does not receive My words has one who judges him; the Word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day.
For I have not spoken of Myself, but the Father who sent Me gave Me a command, what I should say, and what I should speak.
And I know that His command is life everlasting. Therefore whatever I speak, even as the Father said to Me, so I speak.