A Lesson, of Asaph. O God, have You cast us off forever; will Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture?
Remember Your congregation; You purchased them in days before; You redeemed us as the rod of Your inheritance, this Mount Zion in which You have dwelt.
Lift up Your steps to the perpetual desolations, the enemy who has done all evil in the sanctuary.
Your vexers have roared in the middle of Your congregation; they set up their own signs for signs.
He is known as one bringing axes in on high, against the thick trees.
And now together they break down its carved work with the axe and hammers.
They have cast fire in Your sanctuary; they have polluted the place where Your name dwells on the earth.
They said in their hearts, Let us rage against them together; they have burned up all the meeting-places of God in the land.
We did not see our signs; there is no longer a prophet; nor any among us who knows until when.
O God, until when shall the enemy defame You ? Shall the enemy scorn Your name forever?
Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? From out of Your bosom, consume them .
For God is my King of old, who works salvation in the midst of the land.
You broke the sea by Your strength; You burst the heads of sea-monsters in the waters.
You cracked open the heads of leviathan; You gave him to be food for the people of the wilderness.
You divided the fountain and the torrent; You dried up mighty rivers.
The day is Yours, the night is also Yours. You have established the light and the sun.
You have fixed the boundaries of the earth; You have formed the summer and winter.
Remember this: the enemy has defamed, O Jehovah; and a foolish people have scorned Your name.
Do not give the soul of Your turtledove to the wild beasts; You will not forever forget the life of Your afflicted ones.
Look to Your covenant; for the dark places of the earth are full, the abodes of violence.
O let not the ill-treated ones turn back ashamed; let the poor and needy praise Your name.
Arise, O God, contend for Your cause; remember Your reproach from the fool all the day.
Do not forget the voice of Your enemies; the noise of those rising up against You is going up continually.