Indeed, O Theophilus, I made the first report concerning all things which Jesus began both to do and to teach,
until the day He was taken up, having given directions to the apostles whom He chose, through the Holy Spirit,
to whom also He presented Himself living after His suffering, by many infallible proofs, being seen by them through forty days, and speaking the things concerning the kingdom of God.
And having met with them , He charged them not to leave Jerusalem, but to await the promise of the Father, "which you heard of Me;
for John indeed baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days after."
Then, indeed, coming together they questioned Him, saying, Lord, do You restore the kingdom to Israel at this time?
And He said to them, It is not yours to know times or seasons which the Father placed in His own authority;
but you will receive power, the Holy Spirit coming upon you, and you will be witnesses of Me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.
And saying these things, as they looked on, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him from their eyes.
And as they were intently looking into the heaven, He having gone, even behold, two men in white clothing stood by them,
who also said, Men, Galileans, why do you stand looking up to the heaven? This Jesus, the One being taken from you into the heaven, will come in the way you saw Him going into the heaven.
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount being called Of Olive Grove, which is near Jerusalem, a sabbath's journey away.
And when they went in, they went up to the upper room where they were waiting: both Peter and James, and John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus and Simon the Zealot, and Judas  the brother of James.
These all were continuing steadfastly in prayer and in supplication with one mind, with the women, and with Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.
And in these days, standing up in the middle of the disciples, (and the number of names together being about a hundred and twenty), Peter said,
Men, brothers, it was necessary for this Scripture to be fulfilled which the Holy Spirit spoke before by David's mouth concerning Judas, the one having become guide to those seizing Jesus;
for he was numbered with us, and obtained a portion of this ministry.
Indeed, then, this one bought a field out of the reward of unrighteousness; and falling headlong, he burst in the middle, and poured out all his bowels.
And it became known to all those living in Jerusalem, so as that field to be called in their own dialect, Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.
For it has been written in the scroll of Psalms, Let his estate become forsaken, and he not be living in it. And, "Let another take his overseership." LXX-Psa. 68:26; Psa. 108:8; MT-Psa. 69:25; Psa. 109:8
Therefore, it is right that one of these men being together with us all the time in which the Lord Jesus came in and went out among us,
beginning from the baptism of John until the day when He was taken from us, one of these to become a witness of His resurrection with us.
And they set out two: Joseph, he being called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
And having prayed, they said, You, Lord, knower of all hearts, show which one You chose from these two,
to take the share of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas fell, to go to his own place.
And they gave their lots. And the lot fell on Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.