THEN after these things the Lord appointed other seventy persons also, and sent them, two and two before his face, into every city and place, whither he himself designed to go.
He said therefore unto them, The harvest indeed is plenteous, but the labourers few: pray ye therefore to the Lord of the harvest, that he would send out labourers into his harvest.
Go forth! behold, I send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor sandals: and stay to salute no man on the road.
And into whatever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house.
And if the Son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it; but if not, it shall return back to you again.
And in the same family abide, eating and drinking such as they have: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not about from house to house.
And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they welcome you, eat whatever is set before you:
and heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go out into the streets of it, and say,
Even the dust of your city, which sticks to us, we shake off against you: nevertheless this know, that the kingdom of God is come near to you.
Now I tell you, that it shall be more tolerable for Sodom in that day, than for that city.
Wo to thee Chorazin! wo to thee Bethsaida! for if the miracles which have been done in thee, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, long ago sitting in sackcloth and ashes, would they have repented.
But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you.
And thou Capernaum, which hast been lifted up to heaven, shalt be cast down to hell.
He that heareth you, heareth me; and he that despiseth you, despiseth me; and he that despiseth me, despiseth Him that sent me.
Then the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject to us through thy name.
And he said unto them, I beheld Satan falling as lightning from heaven.
Behold, I give you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy; and nothing shalt in any wise hurt you.
Nevertheless, in this rejoice not, that the spirits are made subject to you; but rejoice rather, that your names are inscribed in the heavens.
In the same hour Jesus exulted in spirit, and said, I ascribe glory to thee, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and intelligent, and hast revealed them to babes: be it so, O Father! since such is thy good pleasure.
All things are given up to me by my Father: and no man knoweth who is the Son, but the Father; and who is the Father, but the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son is pleased to reveal him.
Then turning to the disciples, he said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things which ye see:
for I tell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see the things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear the things which ye hear, and have not heard them.
And, behold, a certain doctor of the law arose, to make trial of him, saying, Master, by doing what shall I inherit eternal life?
And he said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou?
And he answering said, “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might, and with all thy understanding, and thy neighbour as thyself.”
And he said unto him, Thou hast answered rightly: this do, and thou shalt live.
Then he, desirous to make himself appear a righteous person, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?
Then Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among robbers, who, when they had both stripped him, and covered him with wounds, got off, leaving him half dead.
And it so fell out, that a certain priest went down that way, and seeing him, he kept the opposite side of the road.
And a Levite also, in the same way, being near the place, came, and seeing him, kept the opposite side of the road.
But a certain Samaritan travelling, came by him, and seeing him, was moved with compassion,
and coming up to him, bound up his wounds, after pouring on them oil and wine; then setting him on his own beast, he led him to an inn, and took particular care of him.
And on the morrow, as he was departing, he took out of his purse two denarii, and gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take great care of him; and whatever farther expence may be incurred, when I return, I will repay thee.
Which then of these three do you suppose to be the neighbour of him who fell into the robbers’ hands?
And he said, He that shewed mercy towards him. Then said Jesus to him, Go, and do thou exactly the same.
And it came to pass, as they were travelling, that he entered into a certain village; and a woman, named Martha, received him into her house.
And she had a sister called Mary, who sitting down also at the feet of Jesus, hearkened to his discourse.
But Martha was hurrying about to provide a large entertainment, and coming up to him, she said, Lord, is it no concern to thee, that my sister hath left me to make the whole provision by myself? bid her therefore to assist me.
But Jesus answering said to her, Martha, Martha, thou art anxious and disturbing thyself about many things.
But of one thing there is need: and Mary hath made her election of that good portion, which shall not be taken away from her.