And, a great sign, appeared in heaven: a woman arrayed with the sun, and, the moon, beneath her feet, and, upon her head, a crown of twelve stars;
and she was with child, and crieth out, being in pangs and in anguish to bring forth?
And there appeared another sign in heaven; and lo! a great red dragon,—having seven heads and ten horns, and, upon his heads, seven diadems;
and, his tail, draweth the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth. And, the dragon, stood before the woman who was about to bring forth, that, as soon as she should bring forth, he might devour, her child.
And she brought forth a son, a manchild, who was about to shepherd all the nations with a sceptre of iron; and her child was caught away unto God and unto his throne.
And, the woman, fled into the desert, where she hath a place prepared of God, that, there, they should nourish her a thousand, two hundred, and sixty days.
And there came to be war in heaven: Michael and his messengers [going forth] to war with the dragon; and, the dragon, fought, and his messengers;
and he prevailed not, neither was place found for them, any longer, in heaven.
And the great dragon was cast out,—the ancient serpent, he that is called Adversary and the Satan, that deceiveth the whole habitable world,—he was cast to the earth, and his messengers, with him, were cast.
And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying—Now, hath come the salvation, and the power, and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ; because the accuser of our brethren hath been cast out, who was accusing them before our God day and night;
And, they, overcame him by reason of the blood of the Lamb, and by reason of their witnessing word, and they loved not their life, even unto death.
For this cause, be joyful, O heavens, and ye who, therein, are tabernacling. Woe! unto the earth, and the sea, because the Adversary hath come down unto you, having great wrath—knowing that, but a little season, he hath.
And, when the dragon saw that he was cast to the earth, he pursued the woman who had brought forth the manchild.
And there were given unto the woman the two wings of the great eagle, that she might fly into the desert, into her place,—where she is nourished, a season and seasons and half a season, from the face of the serpent.
And the serpent cast out of his mouth, after the woman, water as a river, that he might cause her to be carried away by the stream.
And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
And the dragon was angered against the woman, and went away to make war with the rest of her seed—with them who were keeping the commandments of God, and holding the witness of Jesus;—and he stood upon the sand of the sea.