My brothers do not be many teachers, knowing that we will receive greater judgment.
For we all stumble in many ways . If any one does not stumble in word, this one is a mature man, able also to bridle the whole body.
Behold, we put bits in the mouths of the horses, for them to obey us; and we turn about their whole body.
Behold, the ships also, being so great, and being driven by violent winds, they are directed by a very small rudder, where the impulse of the one steering purposes.
So also the tongue is a little member, and boasts great things. Behold, how little a fire kindles how large a forest!
And the tongue is a fire, the world of iniquity. So the tongue is set among our members, spotting all the body, and inflaming the course of nature, and having been inflamed by Hell.
For every species of beasts, both indeed of birds, of creeping things, and of sea animals, is tamed, and has been tamed by the human species ;
but no one of men is able to tame the tongue; it is an evil that cannot be restrained, full of death-dealing poison.
By this we bless God and the Father; and by this we curse men having come into being according to the image of God. Gen. 1:26
Out of the same mouth comes forth blessing and cursing. My brothers it is not fitting for these things to be so.
Does the fountain out of the same hole send forth the sweet and the bitter?
My brothers, a fig tree is not able to produce olives, or a vine figs. So neither can a fountain produce both salt and sweet water.
Who is wise and knowing among you? Let him show his works by his good behavior, in meekness of wisdom.
But if you have bitter jealousy and contention in your heart, do not boast and lie against the truth.
This is not the wisdom coming down from above, but is earthly, beastly, devilish.
For where jealousy and contention are , there is confusion and every foul deed.
But the wisdom from above is firstly truly pure, then peaceable, forbearing, yielding, full of mercy and of good fruits, not partial and not pretended.
And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace for the ones making peace.