And the two angels came into Sodom at evening. And Lot was sitting at the gate of Sodom. And Lot saw, and he rose up to meet them and bowed his face to the earth.
And he said, Behold, now, my lords, please turn into your servant's house and lodge, and wash your feet; and rise early and go to your way. And they said, No, for we will lodge in the street.
And he much urged them, and they turned into him and came into his house. And he made a feast for them. And he baked unleavened cakes, and they ate.
Before they had laid down, even the men of the city, the men of Sodom, circled the house; from the young to the aged, all the people from its limits.
And they called to Lot and said to him, Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know them.
And Lot went out to them, to the door, and he closed the door behind him.
And he said, My brothers, please do not act evilly.
Behold, now, I have two daughters who have not known a man; please let me bring them out to you and do to them as you see fit; only do not do a thing to these men, because on account of this they came into the shade of my roof.
And they said, Stand back! And they said, This one came into visit, and must he always judge? Now we will do evil to you rather than to them. And they pressed on the man, upon Lot violently, and drew near to break the door.
But the men put out their hands and pulled Lot to them, into the house, and shut the door.
And they struck the men at the door of the house with blindness, from the small to the great; and they struggled to find the door.
And the men said to Lot, Who still is here to you? Bring out of this place your sons and your sons-in-law and your daughters, and whoever belongs to you in the city.
For we are about to destroy this place, for the cry of them is great before Jehovah, and Jehovah has sent us to destroy it.
And Lot went out to speak to his sons-in-law, those taking his daughters. And he said, Rise up, go out from this place, for Jehovah is about to destroy the city. And he seemed as one joking to his sons-in-law.
And when the dawn rose, then the angels urged Lot, saying, Rise up, take your wife and your two daughters who are found, lest you be cut off in the depravity of the city.
And he lingered. And the men lay hold of his hand and his wife's hand, and on the hand of his two daughters, Jehovah having mercy on him. And they caused him to go out, and they put him down outside the city.
And it happened as they led them outside, he said, Escape for your life! Do not look behind you, and do not stay in all the plain. Escape to the mountain, lest you be swept away.
And Lot said to them, Oh no, Lord!
Behold, now, Your servant has found grace in Your sight, and You have magnified Your mercy which You have shown to me in saving my life. And I am not able to escape to the mountain lest some evil overtake me and I die.
Behold, now, this city is near, to flee there, and it is a little one. Please let me escape there! Is it not a little thing, that my soul may live?
And He said to him, See, I have lifted up your face also as to this thing, without overthrowing the city for which you have spoken.
Hurry, escape there, for I am not able to do anything until you have come there. So the name of the city was called Zoar.
The sun had risen on the earth, and Lot came into Zoar.
And Jehovah rained brimstone and fire on Sodom and Gomorrah, from Jehovah out of the heavens.
And He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all those living in the cities, and the produce of the ground.
And his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
And Abraham started up early in the morning, going to the place where he had stood there before Jehovah.
And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the plain. And he saw. And, behold, the smoke of the country went up like the smoke of a furnace.
And it happened when God destroyed the cities of the plain, God remembered Abraham; and He sent Lot out from the overthrow when overturning the cities in which Lot lived.
And Lot went up out of Zoar and lived in the mount. And his two daughters were with him. For he feared to live in Zoar. And he lived in a cave, he and his two daughters.
And the first born said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is no man in the land to come in to us as is the way of all the earth.
Come, let us make our father drink wine, and let us lie with him, that we may keep alive seed of our father.
And they caused their father to drink wine that night. And the first born went in and lay with her father. And he did not know when she lay down nor when she rose up.
And on the next day it happened, the first born said to the younger, Behold, I lay with my father last night. Let us cause him to drink wine tonight also. And you go in and lie with him, so that we may keep alive seed of our father.
And they caused their father to drink wine that night also. And the younger rose up and lay with him. And he did not know when she lay down, nor when she rose up.
And both the daughters of Lot were with child by their father.
And the firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab; he is the father of Moab to this day.
And the younger also bore a son and called his name Ben-ammi; he is the father of the Ammonites to this day.