Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ according to a commandment of God our Savior, and the Lord Jesus Christ our hope,
to Timothy, a genuine child in faith: Grace, mercy, peace, from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
As I urged thee, while going to Macedonia, remain in Ephesus, so that thou might command certain men not to teach something different,
nor to heed myths and endless genealogies, which cause controversies rather than stewardship of God in faith.
But the end of the commandment is love out of a pure heart, and a good conscience, and non-hypocritical faith.
From which some having swerved have turned aside to empty talk,
desiring to be law teachers, understanding neither what they say, nor about what they confidently assert.
But we know that the law is good, if any man uses it lawfully,
knowing this, that law is not laid down for righteous men, but for the lawless and rebellious, for the irreverent and sinful, for the impious and profane, for father killers and mother killers, for man killers,
for fornicators, for homosexuals, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and if there is any other thing contrary to the sound doctrine
according to the good news of the glory of the blessed God, of which I was entrusted.
And I have gratitude to the Christ-Jesus our Lord-who empowered me, because he considered me faithful, having placed in service
the man who was formerly blasphemous, and a persecutor, and an aggressor. But I obtained mercy because I did it being ignorant in unbelief.
And the grace of our Lord was filled to overflowing with the faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Faithful is the saying, and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinful men, of whom I am foremost.
But because of this I obtained mercy, so that in me, the foremost, Jesus Christ might show forth all longsuffering for an example of those who were going to believe in him for eternal life.
Now to the King of the ages, immortal, invisible, alone wise, to God is honor and glory into the ages of the ages. Truly.
This command I set before thee, child Timothy, according to the prophecies leading the way for thee, so that by them thou might war the good warfare.
Holding faith and a good conscience, which some, having put away, made shipwreck about the faith,
of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I delivered to Satan, so that they may be disciplined not to blaspheme.