For the kingdom of Heaven is like a man, a housemaster, who went out when it was early to hire workers into his vineyard.
And agreeing with the workers for a denarius for the day, he sent them into his vineyard.
And going out about the third hour, he saw others standing idle in the market.
And he said to them, You also go into the vineyard, and I will give you whatever is just. And they went.
Again, going out about the sixth and ninth hour, he did the same.
And going out about the eleventh hour, he found others standing idle, and said to them, Why do you stand here idle all day?
They said to him, Because no one has hired us. He said to them, You also go into the vineyard, and you will receive whatever is just.
But evening coming, the Lord of the vineyard said to his manager, Call the workers and pay them the wage, beginning from the last to the first.
And the ones coming the eleventh hour each received a denarius.
And coming, the first supposed that they would receive more. And they also each received a denarius.
And receiving it , they murmured against the housemaster,
saying, These last have performed one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden and the heat of the day.
But answering, he said to one of them, Friend, I am not unjust to you. Did you not agree to a denarius with me?
Take yours and go. But I desire to give to this last as also to you.
Or is it not lawful for me to do what I desire with my things? Or is your eye evil because I am good?
So the last shall be first, and the first last; for many are called, but few chosen.
And going up to Jerusalem, Jesus took the twelve disciples aside in the way, and said to them,
Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes. And they will condemn Him to death.
And they will deliver Him up to the nations to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify. And the third day He will rise again.
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came near to Him, along with her sons, worshipping, and asking something from Him.
And He said to her, What do you desire? She said to Him, Say that these two sons of mine may sit one on Your right, and one on Your left in Your Kingdom.
But answering, Jesus said, You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup which I am about to drink, and to be baptized with the baptism with which I am to be baptized? They said to Him, We are able.
And He said to them, Indeed you shall drink My cup, and you shall be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized; but to sit off My right and off My left hand is not Mine to give, but to those for whom it was prepared by My Father.
And hearing, the ten were indignant about the two brothers.
But having called them, Jesus said, You know that the rulers of the nations exercise lordship over them, and the great ones exercise authority over them.
But it will not be so among you. But whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant.
And whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your servant;
Even as the Son of man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many.
And as they were going out from Jericho, a great crowd followed Him.
And, behold, two blind ones sitting beside the way, hearing that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, saying, Have pity on us, Lord, Son of David!
But the crowd rebuked them, that they be quiet. But they cried out the more, saying, Have pity on us, Lord, Son of David!
And stopping, Jesus called them, and said, What do you desire that I do to you?
They said to Him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
And moved with pity, Jesus touched their eyes. And instantly their eyes received sight, and they followed Him.