And as it was determined that we should sail to Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion of the Augustan band, named Julius.
And going on board a ship of Adramyttium, we put to sea, intending to sail by the coast of Asia, Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
On the next day, we touched at Sidon; and Julius treated Paul with kindness, and permitted him to go to his friends, and receive their attentions.
And thence we put to sea, and sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were adverse.
And when we had sailed across the sea opposite Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia.
And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria, sailing to Italy; and he put us on board.
For many days we sailed slowly; and having with difficulty come off Cnidus, the wind not permitting us to go further, we sailed under the lee of Crete, off Salmone:
and coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near which is the city of Lasea.
But, after much time had been spent, and sailing was now dangerous, for the fast was already past, Paul admonished them,
saying: Men, I perceive that this voyage will be with damage and much loss, not only to the cargo and the ship, but also to our lives.
But the centurion had more confidence in the pilot, and in the owner of the ship, than in the things which were spoken by Paul.
And as the harbor was not commodious to winter in, the majority advised that they should put to sea from that place also, if, by any means, they might reach Phoenix, and winter there, which is a harbor of Crete, lying toward the south-west and north-west.
And when the south wind blew gently, supposing that they had gained their object, they launched the ship, and ran along close to the shore of Crete.
But in a little time a tempestuous wind, called Euroclydon, blew against it.
And the ship being caught and unable to bear up against the wind, we committed it to the gale, and were driven along.
And running under the lee of a certain island called Clauda, we with difficulty secured the boat.
When they had taken it up, they used helps, undergirding the ship. And fearing lest they should fall into the quicksand, they lowered the mast, and thus were driven along.
And as we were greatly tossed by the tempest, on the next day they threw overboard the cargo;
and on the third day, with our own hands, we threw out the tackling of the ship.
And as neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small tempest lay upon us, all hope of our being saved was at length taken away.
But, after long abstinence from food, Paul stood up in the midst of them, and said: men, you ought to have been persuaded by me, and not to have put to sea from Crete; and you would have avoided this damage and loss.
And now, I exhort you to be of good cheer; for there shall be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
For there stood by me this night an angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve,
and said, Fear not, Paul; you must stand in the presence of Cæsar; and behold, God has given you all that are sailing with you.
For this reason, men, be cheerful; for I believe God, that it shall be even as it was told to me.
But we must be thrown upon a certain island.
But when the fourteenth night had come, and we were drifting up and down in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors supposed that they were drawing near some land.
And they sounded, and found twenty fathoms: and when they had gone a little further, and sounded again, they found fifteen fathoms.
And fearing that we would fall upon rocks, they threw out four anchors from the stern, and wished for day.
And as the sailors were attempting to flee from the ship, and were letting down the boat into the sea, under the pretext that they were about to let down anchors from the prow,
Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers: Unless these remain in the ship, you can not be saved.
Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat, and let it fall off.
And while the day was coming on, Paul exhorted them all to take food, saying: This is the fourteenth day that you have been in suspense, and continued without food, having taken nothing.
Wherefore, I exhort you to take food; for this will promote your safety. For not a hair shall fall from the head of any of you.
And when he had said this, he took bread, and gave thanks to God before them all, and broke, and began to eat.
And all became cheerful, and also partook of food.
And all of us that were in the ship were two hundred and seventy-six souls.
When they were satisfied with food, they lightened the ship by throwing the provisions into the sea.
And when it was day, they did not recognize the land; but they perceived an inlet, that had an accessible shore, into which they desired, if they could, to thrust the ship.
And, after cutting away the anchors, they committed the ship to the sea, at the same time loosing the lashings of the rudders: and they set up the front sail to the wind, and kept the ship firmly toward the shore.
And falling into a place where two currents met, they ran the ship aground, and the prow stuck fast, and remained immovable; but the stern was broken by the violence of the waves.
The soldiers counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest some of them should swim out and escape.
But the centurion, wishing to save Paul, kept them from their purpose, and commanded those who were able to swim, to throw themselves into the sea first, and get to land;
and then the rest, some on planks, and others on what could be taken from the ship. And thus it came to pass, that all got safe to land.