If, therefore, there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort arising from love, if any participation of the Spirit, if any affections and mercies,
fulfill my joy, that you be of the same mind, having the same love, of one soul, of one mind;
doing nothing in strife and vain glory, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than himself.
Consider not each one his own gifts, but each one also the gifts of others.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus,
who, being in the form of God, did not think it an act of robbery to be equal with God;
but he divested himself by taking the form of a servant, and being made in the likeness of men:
and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient even to death, the death, indeed, of the cross.
For which reason God has highly exalted him, and, also, bestowed on him a name that is above every name;
that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow of those who are in heaven, and those who are on earth, and those who are under the earth;
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
So, then, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling;
for it is God, who, of his good pleasure, works in you both the will and the power to perform.
Do all things without murmurings and disputings,
that you may be without reproach and Harmless, the children of God, without blame, in the midst of a wicked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as luminaries in the world,
holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I did not run in vain, nor labor in vain.
But if I am poured out on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice with you all.
In like manner do you also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus, to send Timothy shortly to you, that I also may be refreshed by knowing your condition;
for I have no one of a kindred spirit who will sincerely care for your condition:
for all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
But you know his approved character, that as a son with a father he has served with me in the gospel.
Him, therefore, I hope to send immediately, as soon as I know how it may go with me.
But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come shortly.
Yet I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus my brother and companion in labor and fellow-soldier, but your apostle, who also ministered to my want,
because he longed after you all, and was much distressed, because you had heard that he was sick.
And, indeed, he was sick near to death; but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
I sent him, therefore, the sooner, that, by seeing him again, you might rejoice, and that I might be the less sorrowful.
Receive him, therefore, in the Lord with all joy, and regard such as worthy of honor;
because for the work of the Christ he was near to death, not regarding his life, that he might supply that which was lacking in your service to me.