The lorde visyted Sara as he had sayde and dyd vnto her acordynge as he had spoken.
And Sara was with childe and bare Abraha a sonne in his olde age euen the same season which the LORde had appoynted.
And Abraham called his sonnes name that was borne vnto him which Sara bare him Isaac:
and Abra circucysed Isaac his sone whe he was .viij. dayes olde as God commaunded him
And Abraha was an hundred yere olde when his sonne Isaac was borne vnto him.
And Sara sayde: God hath made me a laughinge stocke: for all yt heare will laugh at me
She sayde also: who wolde haue sayde vnto Abraham that Sara shulde haue geuen childern sucke or yt I shulde haue borne him a sonne in his olde age:
The childe grewe and was wened and Abraham made a great feast the same daye that Isaac was wened.
Sara sawe the sonne of Hagar the Egiptian which she had borne vnto Abraham a mockynge.
Then she sayde vnto Abraham: put awaye this bondemayde and hyr sonne: for the sonne of this bondwoman shall not be heyre with my sonne Isaac:
But the wordes semed verey greavous in Abrahams syghte because of his sonne.
Than the LORde sayde vnto Abraham: let it not be greavous vnto the because of the ladd and of thy bondmayde: But in all that Sara hath saide vnto the heare hir voyce for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.
Moreouer of the sonne of the Bondwoman will I make a nation because he is thy seed.
And Abraham rose vp early in the mornyng and toke brede and a bottell with water and gaue it vnto Hagar puttynge it on hir shulders wyth the lad also and sent her awaye. And she departed and wadred vpp and doune in the wyldernes of Berseba.
When the water was spent that was in the botell she cast the lad vnder a bush
and went and satt her out of syghte a great waye as it were a bowshote off: For she sayde: I will not se the lad dye. And she satt doune out of syghte and lyfte vp hyr voyce and wepte.
And God herde the voyce of the childe. And the angell of God called Hagar out of heaven and sayde vnto her: What ayleth the Hagar? Feare not for God hath herde the voyce of the childe where he lyeth.
Aryse and lyfte vp the lad and take hym in thy hande for I will make off him a greate people.
And God opened hir eyes and she sawe a well of water. And she went and fylled the bottell with water and gaue the boye drynke.
And God was wyth the lad and he grewe and dweld in the wildernesse and became an archer.
And he dweld in the wyldernesse of Pharan. And hys mother gott him a wyfe out of the land of Egypte.
And it chaunced the same season that Abimelech and Phicoll his chefe captayne spake vnto Abraham saynge: God is wyth the in all that thou doist.
Now therfore swere vnto me even here by God that thou wylt not hurt me nor my childern nor my childerns childern. But that thou shalt deale with me and the contre where thou art a straunger acordynge vnto the kyndnesse that I haue shewed the.
Then sayde Abraham: I wyll swere.
And Abraham rebuked Abimelech for a well of water which Abimelech servauntes had taken awaye.
And Abimelech answered I wyst not who dyd it: Also thou toldest me not nether herde I of it but this daye.
And Abraham toke shepe and oxen and gaue them vnto Abimelech. And they made both of them a bonde together.
And Abraham sett vij. lambes by them selues.
And Abimelech sayde vnto Abraham: what meane these .vij. lamdes which thou hast sett by them selues.
And he answered: vij. lambes shalt thou take of my hande that it maye be a wytnesse vnto me that I haue dygged this well:
Wherfore the place is called Berseba because they sware both of them.
Thus made they a bonde to gether at Berseba.Than Abimelech and Phicoll his chefe captayne rose vp and turned agayne vnto the lande of the Philistines.
And Abraham planted a wodd in Berseba and called there on the name of the LORde the everlastynge God:
and dwelt in the Phelistinlade alonge season