AND Jesus after these things travelled about in Galilee: for he would not go about in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him.
And a feast of the Jews was nigh, the feast of tabernacles.
Then said his disciples to him, Depart hence, and go into Judea, that thy disciples also may see thy works which thou doest.
For no man doeth any thing in secret, yet seeketh himself to appear publicly: if thou doest these things, exhibit thyself to the world.
For even his own brethren did not believe on him.
Jesus therefore saith to them, My proper time is not yet come: but your time is always ready.
The world cannot hate you, but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that its deeds are evil.
Go ye up to this feast: for I am not yet going up to this feast, because my fixed time is not yet arrived.
Thus speaking to them then, he continued in Galilee.
But as soon as his disciples were gone up, then went he also himself up to the feast: not in public, but as in concealment.
The Jews then sought for him at the feast, and said, Where is he?
And there was a great murmur concerning him among the multitude: some said, Surely he is a good man: others said, No; he only deceiveth the people.
Yet no person spake openly of him for fear of the Jews.
But now at the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught.
And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man the scriptures, not being a scholar?
Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.
If any man will do his will, he shall know respecting the doctrine, whether it is of God, or whether I speak from myself.
He that speaketh from himself, seeks his own individual honour: but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, he is true, and iniquity in him there is none.
Hath not Moses given you the law, yet none of you practises the law? Why do ye seek to kill me?
The multitude answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who is seeking to kill thee?
Jesus answered and said unto them, I have performed one work, and ye all marvel.
Because Moses ordered you circumcision; (not that it comes from Moses, but from our ancestors;) so ye circumcise a man on the sabbath-day.
If a man receive circumcision on the sabbath-day, that the law of Moses should not be violated; are ye incensed against me, because I have made a man whole on the sabbath-day?
Judge not by appearance, but judge righteous judgment.
Then said some of the people of Jerusalem, is not this the man whom they are seeking to kill?
And, lo! he speaketh openly, and they say not a word to him. Do the rulers certainly know that this man is really the Messiah?
But we know this man whence he is: but when the Messiah cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.
Then spake Jesus aloud as he was teaching in the temple, and said, Ye both know me, and ye know from whence I am: and I came not of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not.
But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.
Then they sought to apprehend him: but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.
But many of the multitude believed on him, and said, When the Messiah cometh, will he do greater miracles than those which this man doth?
The Pharisees heard the people muttering these things respecting him; and the Pharisees and chief priests sent officers to apprehend him.
Then said Jesus unto them, A little while longer I am with you, and I am going to him that sent me.
Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, ye cannot come.
Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will this man go, that we shall not find him? will he go to the dispersed among the Grecians, and teach the Greeks?
What is this saying which he hath spoken, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, ye cannot come?
Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood up and spake aloud, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink.
He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, from his belly shall rivers flow of living water.
(Now he spake this in reference to the Spirit, which they who believe on him should afterwards receive: for as yet the Holy Ghost was not given; because Jesus was not yet glorified.)
Many then of the multitude, when they heard this declaration, said, This man is certainly a prophet.
Others said, He is the Messiah. But others said, No: for cometh the Messiah out of Galilee?
Doth not the scripture say, That the Messiah cometh of the seed of David, and from the town of Bethlehem, whence David originally was?
There was a division therefore among the multitude on account of him.
Now some of them were desirous to apprehend him; but no one laid hands upon him.
Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisee; and they said to them, Why have ye not brought him?
The officers answered, Never did man before speak in such a manner as this man.
The Pharisees then replied to them, Are ye also deluded?
Hath any one of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?
But this rabble, which knoweth not the law, is accursed.
Nicodemus saith unto them, (the same person who came to him by night, being one of their body,)
Doth our law condemn a man, without first hearing his defence, and knowing what he hath done?
They answered and said to him, Art thou not from Galilee too? Search and see: for a prophet, out of Galilee, never was raised up.
So each went to his own home.