Better a dry morsel, and peace therewith, than a house full of contentious sacrifices.
A prudent servant, shall rule over a son who causeth shame, and, in the midst of brothers, shall he share the inheritance.
Fining-pot for silver, crucible for gold, but, he that trieth hearts, is Yahweh.
Discord, giveth heed to the aggrieving lip,—Falsehood, giveth ear to the destroying tongue.
He that mocketh the poor, hath reproached his Maker, He that maketh merry at distress, shall not be held innocent.
The crown of old men, consists of children’s children, and the adornment of children, is their fathers.
Unseemly in an unworthy man, is the lip of excellence, much more, in one of noble mind, the lip of falsehood.
A gift, in the eyes of its owner, is, a stone of beauty, whithersoever it turneth, it bringeth prosperity.
He that hideth a transgression, seeketh love, but, he that repeateth a matter, separateth intimate friends.
A reproof sinketh more deeply into an intelligent man than a hundred stripes, into a dullard!
Nothing less than rebellion, doth a wicked man seek, and, a relentless messenger, shall be sent out against him.
Let a bereaved bear encounter man, rather than a dullard, with his folly!
He that returneth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
A letting forth of water, is the beginning of strife, therefore, before it breaketh out, abandon, contention.
He that justifieth the lawless, and he that condemneth the righteous, an abomination to Yahweh, are they, both.
Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a dullard? that he who is without sense, may acquire wisdom.
At all times, doth a friend love, and, a brother for distress, must be born.
A man lacking sense, is one who striketh hands, giving security, before his neighbour.
A lover of transgression, is one who loveth strife, he that heighteneth his door, seeketh grievous harm.
The crooked in heart, shall not find good, and, he that is perverse with his tongue, shall fall into wickedness.
He that begetteth a dullard, it is to his own grief, neither can the father of the base, rejoice.
A joyful heart, worketh an excellent cure,—but, a stricken spirit, drieth up the bone.
A bribe out of his bosom, doth a lawless man take, to pervert the ways of justice.
Before the face of the discerning, is wisdom, but, the eyes of a dullard, are in the ends of the earth.
A vexation to his father, is the son that is a dullard, and a bitterness, to her that bare him.
Surely, to chastise the righteous, is not good, to smite the noble-minded for equity.
Sparing of his words, is one who valueth knowledge, and, of a thoughtful spirit, is a man of intelligence.
Even a fool, holding his peace, is accounted, wise,—He that closeth his lips, [is thought] to have understanding.