Save me, O God, for the waters have come in to my soul.
I sink in deep mire where there is no standing. I have come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.
I am weary with my crying. My throat is dried. My eyes fail while I wait for my God.
Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. Those who would cut me off, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty. That which I took not away I have to restore.
O God, thou know my foolishness, and my sins are not hid from thee.
Let not those who wait for thee be put to shame through me, O lord Jehovah of hosts. Let not those who seek thee be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel.
Because for thy sake I have borne reproach, shame has covered my face.
I have become a stranger to my brothers, and an alien to my mother's sons.
For the zeal of thy house has eaten me up, and the reproaches of those who reproach thee have fallen upon me.
When I wept in my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.
When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them.
Those who sit in the gate talk of me, and I am the song of the drunkards.
But as for me, my prayer is to thee, O Jehovah. In an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of thy loving kindness, answer me in the truth of thy salvation.
Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink. Let me be delivered from those who hate me, and out of the deep waters.
Let not the water flood overwhelm me, nor let the deep swallow me up. And let not the pit shut its mouth upon me.
Answer me, O Jehovah, for thy loving kindness is good. According to the multitude of thy tender mercies turn thou to me,
and hide not thy face from thy servant, for I am in distress. Answer me speedily.
Draw near to my soul, and redeem it. Ransom me because of my enemies.
Thou know my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonor. My adversaries are all before thee.
Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness. And I looked for some to take pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none.
They also gave me gall for my food, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
Let their table before them become a snare, and when they are in peace, a trap, and for a stumbling block, and for a retribution to them.
Let their eyes be darkened, so that they cannot see, and bow down their back continually.
Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let the fierceness of thine anger overtake them.
Let their habitation be desolate. Let none dwell in their tents.
For they persecute him whom thou have smitten, and they tell of the sorrow of those whom thou have wounded.
Add iniquity to their iniquity, and let them not come into thy righteousness.
Let them be blotted out of the book of life, and not be written with the righteous.
But I am poor and sorrowful. Let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.
I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving,
and it will please Jehovah better than an ox, or a bullock that has horns and hoofs.
The meek have seen it, and are glad. Ye who seek after God, let your heart live.
For Jehovah hears the needy, and does not despise his prisoners.
Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and everything that moves therein.
For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah. And they shall abide there, and have it in possession.
The seed also of his servants shall inherit it, and those who love his name shall dwell therein.