Therefore having left the word of the primacy of Christ, let us be brought forward to perfection, not again laying a foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
of doctrine of washings, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And this we will do, if of course God will permit.
For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and who tasted of the heavenly gift, and who became partakers of the Holy Spirit,
and who tasted the good word of God and the powers of the coming age,
and who fell away, to restore again to repentance, crucifying to themselves the Son of God, and disgracing him publicly.
For the soil that has drunk the rain often coming upon it, and bringing forth vegetation useful for those by whom also it is cultivated, partakes of a blessing from God.
But producing thorns and thistles it is unfit and near a curse, the end of which is for burning.
But we are persuaded better things about you, beloved, and things that have salvation, even though we speak this way.
For God is not unrighteous to forget your work, and the labor of love that ye showed toward his name, having served the sanctified, and who are serving.
And we earnestly desire each of you to show the same diligence toward the full assurance of the hope until the end,
so that ye may not become lazy, but imitators of those who, through faith and longsuffering, inherit the promises.
For God who promised to Abraham, since he had none greater to swear by, swore by himself,
saying, Surely indeed, blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee.
And this way, having patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
For men certainly swear by the greater, and of every dispute with them the oath is final for confirmation.
By which God, wanting to demonstrate more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutableness of his resolve, confirmed it by an oath.
So that by two immutable events, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have strong encouragement, having fled for refuge to seize the hope being openly displayed.
Which we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and that enters into the interior of the veil,
where the forerunner, Jesus, entered for us, having become a high priest into the age according to the order of Melchizedek.