Nations, come near to hear; and peoples, listen! Let the earth hear, and its fullness, the world and all its offspring.
For the wrath of Jehovah is on all the nations, and fury on all their army; He has devoted them; He gave them to slaughter.
And their slain shall be thrown out; and the stench from their carcasses shall rise; and the mountains shall be melted with their blood.
And all the host of the heavens shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together like a scroll. Then all their host shall droop, as a leaf drooping from the vine, and as the drooping from a fig tree.
For My sword is drenched in the heavens. Behold, it shall come down on Edom, and on the people of My curse, for judgment.
A sword is to Jehovah; it is filled with blood; it is made fat with fatness, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams. For Jehovah has a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
And wild oxen shall come down with them, and bullocks with strong bulls; and their land is drenched with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness.
For the day of vengeance is to Jehovah, the year of repayments for Zion's cause.
And its torrents shall be turned to pitch, and its dust to brimstone; and its land shall become burning pitch.
It shall not be put out night or day; its smoke shall rise forever. From generation to generation, it shall lie waste; no one shall pass through it forever and forever.
But the owl and the hedgehog shall possess it; and the eared owl and the raven shall live in it. And He shall stretch out on it the line of shame, and the stones of emptiness.
They shall call its nobles to a kingdom, but none shall be there; and all her rulers shall be nothing.
And thorns shall grow in her palaces, nettles and thistles in its fortresses; and it shall be a home for jackals, a court for daughters of ostriches.
The desert creatures shall also meet with the howlers; and the shaggy goat shall cry to his fellow. The screech owl shall also settle there, and find a place of rest for herself.
The snake shall nest there, and shall lay, and hatch, and shall gather in her shadow. Vultures shall also be gathered together, each with its mate.
Search and read from the Book of Jehovah; not one of these misses, each not lacking her mate; for He has commanded my mouth, and by His Spirit He has assembled them.
And He has made fall a lot for them, and His hand divided it to them by line. They shall possess it until forever, from generation to generation they shall live in it.