And a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession.
And he kept back part of the price, his wife also knowing, and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostles' feet.
But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart for you to lie to the Holy Spirit, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
While it remained, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was it not in your own authority? Why have you conceived this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God.
And hearing these words, Ananias fell down and expired. And great fear came on all those who heard these things.
And the younger ones arose, wound him up, and carrying him out, they buried him.
And it was about the space of three hours afterward, when his wife (not knowing what was done) came in.
And Peter answered her, Tell me whether you sold the land for so much? And she said, Yes, for so much.
Then Peter said to her, How is it that you have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door and they will carry you out.
Then at once she fell down at his feet and expired. And the younger ones found her dead, and, carrying her out, buried her beside her husband.
And great fear came on all the church and on as many as heard these things.
And many miracles and wonders were done among the people by the hands of the apostles; and they were all with one accord in Solomon's Porch.
And of the rest no one dared to join himself to them, but the people magnified them;
and more believing ones were added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women;
So as to carry out the sick into the streets and place them on cots and mattresses, so that at least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.
And also a multitude came from the cities around Jerusalem, bringing sick ones, and those being tormented by unclean spirits, who were all healed.
And rising up, the high priest, and all those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees) were filled with anger,
And laid their hands on the apostles and put them in the public custody.
But the angel of the Lord opened the prison doors by night and brought them out, and said,
Go! Stand and speak all the words of this Life to the people in the temple.
And hearing, they went into the temple about dawn, and taught. But the high priest came, and those with him. And they called the sanhedrin together, and all the elderhood of the sons of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
But having come near, the officers did not find them in the prison. And returning, reported,
saying, We indeed found the prison shut with all safety, and the keepers standing outside in front of the doors. But having opened it, we found no one inside.
And when the high priest and the temple commander and the chief priests heard these things, they were bewildered about them, what this might be.
But one came, reporting to them, saying, Behold, the men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.
Then the commander went with the officers and brought them, not with force, for they feared the people, lest they should be stoned.
And bringing them, they stood in the sanhedrin. And the high priest asked them,
saying, Did we not strictly command you that you not teach in this name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine and intend to bring this man's blood on us.
And Peter and the apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men.
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you killed and hanged on a tree.
This One God has exalted to be a Ruler and Savior to His right hand in order to give repentance and remission of sins to Israel.
And we are His witnesses of these things. And so also is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him.
But those hearing were cut to the heart, and they took counsel to kill them.
Then there stood up one in the sanhedrin, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law honored among all the people. And he commanded the apostles to be put outside a little space.
And he said to them, Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what you intend to do regarding these men.
For before these days Theudas rose up, boasting himself to be somebody; a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves to him; who was slain. And all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered and brought to nothing.
After this one, Judas of Galilee rose up in the days of the Registration, and drew away considerable people after him. Yet that one perished; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered.
And now I say to you, withdraw from these men and let them alone. For if this counsel or this work is of men, it will come to nothing.
But if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it, lest perhaps you be found even to fight against God.
And they obeyed him. And calling the apostles, beating them, they commanded not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Then indeed they departed from the presence of the sanhedrin, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to be shamed for His name.
And every day in the temple, and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and preaching the gospel: Jesus Christ.