And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When ye come into the land of your habitations, which I give to you,
and will make an offering by fire to Jehovah, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or as a freewill offering, or in your set feasts, to make a sweet savor to Jehovah, of the herd, or of the flock,
then he who offers his oblation shall offer to Jehovah a meal offering of a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of oil.
And wine for the drink offering, the fourth part of a hin, thou shall prepare with the burnt offering, or for the sacrifice, for each lamb.
Or for a ram, thou shall prepare for a meal offering two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the third part of a hin of oil.
And for the drink offering thou shall offer the third part of a hin of wine, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And when thou prepare a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or for peace offerings to Jehovah;
then he shall offer with the bullock a meal offering of three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with half a hin of oil.
And thou shall offer for the drink offering half a hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
Thus shall it be done for each bullock, or for each ram, or for each of the he-lambs, or of the kids.
According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number.
All who are home-born shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And if a stranger sojourns with you, or whoever may be among you throughout your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah; as ye do, so he shall do.
For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you, and for the stranger who sojourns with you, a statute forever throughout your generations. As ye are, so shall the sojourner be before Jehovah.
One law and one ordinance shall be for you, and for the stranger who sojourns with you.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When ye come into the land where I bring you,
then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up a heave offering to Jehovah.
Of the first of your dough ye shall offer up a cake for a heave offering, as the heave offering of the threshing-floor, so shall ye heave it.
Of the first of your dough ye shall give to Jehovah a heave offering throughout your generations.
And when ye shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which Jehovah has spoken to Moses,
even all that Jehovah has commanded you by Moses, from the day that Jehovah gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations,
then it shall be, if it be done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savor to Jehovah, with the meal offering of it, and the drink offering of it, according to the ordinance, and one he-goat for a sin offering.
And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and they shall be forgiven, for it was an error, and they have brought their oblation, an offering made by fire to Jehovah, and their sin offering before Jehovah, for their error.
And all the congregation of the sons of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who sojourns among them, for in respect of all the people it was done unwittingly.
And if one soul sins unwittingly, then he shall offer a she-goat a year old for a sin offering.
And the priest shall make atonement for the soul that errs, when he sins unwittingly, before Jehovah, to make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.
Ye shall have one law for him who does anything unwittingly, for him who is home-born among the sons of Israel, and for the stranger who sojourns among them.
But the soul that does anything with a high hand, whether he be home-born or a sojourner, the same blasphemes Jehovah, and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
Because he has despised the word of Jehovah, and has broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.
And while the sons of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks upon the sabbath day.
And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation.
And they put him in ward, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.
And Jehovah said to Moses, The man shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp.
And all the congregation brought him outside the camp, and stoned him to death with stones, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and bid them that they make for them hems in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the hem of each border a cord of blue.
And it shall be to you for a hem, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of Jehovah, and do them, and that ye not follow after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to play the harlot,
that ye may remember and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God.
I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. I am Jehovah your God.