And it came to pass, when the king had taken up his abode in his house,—and Yahweh had given him rest round about, from all his enemies,
that the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See, I pray thee—I, have my abode in a house, of cedar, but, the ark of God, abideth in, the midst, of curtains.
And Nathan said unto the king, All that is in thy heart, go—do,—for Yahweh is with thee.
But so it was, in that night, that the word of Yahweh came unto Nathan, saying:
Go and say unto my servant—unto David: Thus, saith Yahweh,—Shalt, thou, build me a house, for me to dwell in;
seeing that I have not dwelt in a house, since the day that I brought up the sons of Israel out of Egypt, even unto this day,—but have been wandering in a tent as my habitation?
Wheresoever I have wandered with any of the sons of Israel, spake I ever, a word, with any one of the tribes of Israel, whom I charged to shepherd my people Israel, saying,—Wherefore have ye not built me a house, of cedar?
Now, therefore, thus, shalt thou say unto my servant, unto David: Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, I myself, took thee away from the pasture, from after the flock,—to become leader over my people, over Israel;
and was with thee, whithersoever thou didst go, and have cut off all thine enemies, from before thee,—and will make thee a name, like the name of the great ones who are in the earth;
and will appoint a place for my people, for Israel, and will plant them, and they shall inhabit their place, and be unsettled no more,—neither shall the sons of perversity again humiliate them, as at first;
even from the day when I put judges in charge over my people Israel, thus will I give thee rest from all thine enemies. And Yahweh must tell thee that, a house, will Yahweh make for thee.
And it shall be that, when thy days shall be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, then will I raise up thy seed after thee, which proceedeth from thine own body,—and I will establish his kingdom.
He, shall build a house for my name,—and I will establish his kingly throne unto times age-abiding:
I, will become his father, And, he, shall become my son: If he commit iniquity, then will I correct him, with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the sons of men;
But, my lovingkindness, shall not depart from him,—as I caused it to depart from Saul, whom I caused to depart from before thee.
So shall thy house and thy kingdom be made steadfast unto times age-abiding, before thee,—thy throne, shall be established unto times age-abiding.
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so, spake Nathan unto David.
Then entered King David, and tarried before Yahweh,—and said—Who am, I, My Lord, Yahweh, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me, hitherto;
and hast yet further made this seem little in thine eyes, My Lord, Yahweh, in that thou hast spoken, even of the house, of thy servant, for a great while to come? This, then is the law of manhood, O My Lord, Yahweh!
What more, then, can David yet further speak unto thee,—seeing that, thou thyself knowest thy servant, O My Lord Yahweh?
For the sake of thine own word, and according to thine own heart, hast thou done all this great thing,—making it known unto thy servant.
For this cause, hast thou magnified thyself, O Yahweh Elohim,—for there is none like unto, thee, yea there is no God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
Who, then, is like thy people, like Israel, a nation alone in the earth? whom God went to redeem for himself as a people, so to make himself a name, and to do for you the great deed, fearful things also for thy land, to make way for thy people, whom thou hadst redeemed for thyself, out of Egypt, [dealing with] nations and their god’s;
and hast established for thyself thy people Israel—for thyself as a people, unto times age-abiding,—thou thyself, also, O Yahweh, becoming their God.
Now, therefore, O Yahweh Elohim, the word which thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, confirm thou, unto times age-abiding,—and do, as thou hast spoken:
that thy name may be age-abidingly magnified, saying, Yahweh of hosts, is God over Israel, and so, the house of thy servant David, be established before thee.
For, thou, O Yahweh of hosts, God of Israel, hast unveiled the ear of thy servant, saying—A house, will I build for thee. For this cause, hath thy servant found in his heart, to pray unto thee, this prayer.
Now, therefore, O My Lord, Yahweh, thou, art God, and, thy words, shall prove true,—therefore hast thou spoken unto thy servant this goodness.
Now, therefore, be pleased to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue age-abidingly before thee,—for, thou, O My Lord, Yahweh, hast spoken, therefore, with thine own blessing, shall the house of thy servant be age-abidingly blessed.