“And to the Angel of the Church of Ephesus write: Thus says the One who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks in the midst of the seven golden lampstands:
I know your works, and your hardship and patient endurance, and that you cannot stand those who are evil. And so, you have tested those who declare themselves to be Apostles and are not, and you have found them to be liars.
And you have patient endurance for the sake of my name, and you have not fallen away.
But I have this against you: that you have relinquished your first charity.
And so, call to mind the place from which you have fallen, and do penance, and do the first works. Otherwise, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.
But this you have, that you hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches. To him who prevails, I will give to eat from the Tree of Life, which is in the Paradise of my God.
And to the Angel of the Church of Smyrna write: Thus says the First and the Last, he who was dead and now lives:
I know your tribulation and your poverty, but you are rich, and that you are blasphemed by those who declare themselves to be Jews and are not, but who are a synagogue of Satan.
You should fear nothing amid those things which you will suffer. Behold, the devil will cast some of you into prison, so that you may be tested. And you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful even unto death, and I will give to you the crown of life.
Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches. Whoever will prevail, he shall not be harmed by the second death.
And to the Angel of the Church of Pergamus write: Thus says he who holds the sharp two-edged spear:
I know where you dwell, where the seat of Satan is, and that you hold to my name and have not denied my faith, even in those days when Antipas was my faithful witness, who was slain among you, where Satan dwells.
But I have a few things against you. For you have, in that place, those who hold to the doctrine of Balaam, who instructed Balak to cast a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat and to commit fornication.
And you also have those who hold to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans.
So do penance to the same extent. If you do less, I will come to you quickly and I will fight against these ones with the sword of my mouth.
Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches. To him who prevails, I will give the hidden manna. And I will give to him a white emblem, and on the emblem, a new name has been written, which no one knows, except the one who receives it.
And to the Angel of the Church of Thyatira write: Thus says the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like shining brass.
I know your works, and your faith and charity, and your ministry and patient endurance, and that your more recent works are greater than the earlier ones.
But I have a few things against you. For you permit the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants, to commit fornication and to eat the food of idolatry.
And I gave her a time, so that she might do penance, but she is not willing to repent from her fornication.
Behold, I will cast her onto a bed, and those who commit adultery with her shall be in a very great tribulation, unless they repent from their works.
And I will put her sons to death, and all the Churches shall know that I am the one who examines temperaments and hearts. And I will give to each one of you according to your works. But I say to you,
and to the others who are at Thyatira: Whoever does not hold to this doctrine, and who has not ‘known the depths of Satan,’ as they say, I will not set any other weight upon you.
Even so, that which you have, hold on to it until I return.
And whoever will prevail and will observe my works even unto the end, I will give to him authority over the nations.
And he shall rule them with an iron rod, and they shall be broken like the earthenware of a potter.
The same I also have received from my Father. And I will give to him the morning star.
Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches.”