Does any one of you that has a matter of dispute with another, presume to be judged before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?
Know you not that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you unworthy to decide concerning the smallest matters?
Know you not that we shall judge angels? Much more then, things pertaining to this life.
If, then, you have controversies pertaining to things of this life, set them to judge who are the least esteemed in the church.
I speak to your shame. Is it so, that there is not among you a wise man, not even one, who shall be able to arbitrate between his brethren?
But brother goes to law with brother, and this before the unbelievers?
Now, certainly, you are altogether in fault, that you have law-suits with one another. Why do you not rather suffer injustice? Why do you not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?
But you act unjustly, and you defraud, and that, too, your brethren.
Know you not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived; neither lewd persons, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor catamites, nor sodomites,
nor thieves, nor defrauders, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
And such were some of you: but you are washed, but you are sanctified, but you are justified, in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.
All meats are lawful for me: but all are not profitable. All are lawful for me; but I will not be brought under subjection by any.
Meats for the stomach, and the stomach for meats; but God will destroy both it and them. But the body is not for lewdness, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body:
and God has raised, up the Lord, and will also raise us up by his power.
Know you not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I, then, take the members of the Christ, and make them the members of a harlot? It must not be.
Know you not that he that is joined to a harlot, is one body? For the two, says the scripture, shall be one flesh.
But he that is joined to the Lord, is one spirit.
Shun lewdness. Every sin that a man commits, is without the body; but he that is guilty of lewdness sins against his own body.
Know you not that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, which you have from God, and that you are not your own?
For you have been bought with a price: therefore, glorify God in your body.