And the whole assemblage of them arose, and carried him before Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this man perverting our nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is the Christ, the king.
And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? And he answering said to him, I am.
And Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowd, I find nothing criminal in this man.
But they were the more violent, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Judaea, beginning from Galilee, even to this place.
And when Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilaean.
And on learning that he belonged to Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was himself also at Jerusalem at this time.
Now Herod, when he saw Jesus, was very glad; for he had been wishing to see him for a long time, because he had heard about him; and he hoped to see some sign wrought by him.
And he put many questions to him; but he gave him no answer.
And the chief priests and scribes stood vehemently accusing him.
And Herod also with his guard of soldiers set him at nought and mocked him, and having arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, sent him back to Pilate.
And Herod and Pilate on that day became friends with each other; for they had before been at enmity.
And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
said to them, Ye have brought to me this man, as one that perverteth the people; and behold, I have examined him before you, and have found nothing in this man to sustain the charges which ye bring against him.
No, nor yet Herod; for he hath sent him back to us; and lo! nothing deserving death hath been done by him.
I will therefore chastise, and release him.
Now it was necessary for him to release to them one at the feast.
And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas;
who, for a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder, had been cast into prison.
But Pilate again spoke to them, wishing to release Jesus.
But they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify him!
And he said to them the third time, Why, what evil hath this man done? I have found him guilty of nothing deserving death; I will therefore chastise, and release him.
But they were urgent with loud voices, demanding that he should he crucified; and their voices prevailed.
And Pilate gave sentence that what they demanded should be done.
And he released him who for sedition and murder had been cast into prison, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will.
And when they had led him away, they laid hold on one Simon a Cyrenaean, coming out of the country, and laid on him the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus.
And there followed him a great multitude of the people, and of women who were bewailing and lamenting him.
But Jesus turning to them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me; but weep for yourselves, and for your children.
For lo! the days are coming, in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never gave nourishment.
Then will they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.
For if they do these things in the green tree, what will be done in the dry?
And two others, who were malefactors, were led with him to be put to death.
And when they had come to the place which is called the Skull, they there crucified him, and the malefactors; one on the right hand, and the other on the left.
And Jesus said, Father, forgive them! for they know not what they do. And they divided his garments, casting lots.
And the people stood looking on; and the rulers sneered, saying, Others he saved; let him save himself, if this is the Christ of God, the chosen one.
And the soldiers also came up to him and made sport of him, offering him vinegar,
and saying, If thou art the king of the Jews, save thyself.
There was also an inscription over him: "This is the king of the Jews."
And one of the crucified malefactors railed at him, saying, Art thou not the Christ? save thyself and us.
But the other answering said, rebuking him, Dost not thou fear God, since thou art in the same condemnation?
And we indeed justly; for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds; but this man hath done nothing amiss.
And he said, Jesus, remember me when thou comest in thy kingdom.
And he said to him, Truly do I say to thee, Today shalt thou be with me in Paradise.
And it was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour,
the sun having failed; and the veil of the temple was rent in two.
And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit! And having said this, he expired.
And the centurion, seeing what was done, gave glory to God, saying, Surely this was a righteous man.
And all the multitudes that had come together to that sight, when they had seen the things which were done, returned, beating their breasts.
And all his acquaintances stood at a distance, and women that came with him from Galilee, beholding these things.
And lo! a man named Joseph, of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, being a councilor, and a good and righteous man,
who was not consenting to their purpose and deed, and was waiting for the kingdom of God,—
this man went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus.
And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a tomb that was hewn out of the rock; wherein no one had yet lain.
And it was the day of preparation, and the sabbath was now coming on.
And the women also, who had come with him from Galilee, followed after, and saw the tomb, and how his body was laid.
And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and on the sabbath they rested, according to the commandment.