NOW a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, had sold an estate,
and secreted a part of the price paid, his wife also being privy to the transaction, and he brought a part, and laid it at the apostles’ feet.
But Peter said, O Ananias! why hath Satan filled thy heart that thou shouldst lie to the Holy Ghost, and secrete something from the price of the estate?
it remained unsold, was it not vested in thee? and when sold, was it not in thine own power? why then hast thou determined in thine heart to do this deed? thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.
Then Ananias, hearing those words, sunk down and expired: and great dread fell upon all who heard these things.
Then the young men arose, and swathed him up, and carrying him out, buried him.
Now it came to pass at the distance of about three hours, his wife also, not knowing what had passed, came in.
And Peter addressed her, Tell me, if ye sold the estate for so much? And she said, Yes, for so much.
Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have conspired together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? see, the feet of them who have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out.
Then she fell instantly at his feet, and expired: and the young men entering, found her dead, and carrying her out, buried her with her husband.
And great awe fell on all the Church, and on all who heard these things.
But by the hands of the apostles were many signs and miracles done among the people; (and they were all with one accord in the portico of Solomon.
But of the rest no man had the courage to unite himself with them: though the people extolled them.
But believers on the Lord were abundantly added to them, multitudes, both of men and women.)
Insomuch that they carried out into the streets the sick, and laid them on beds and couches, that when Peter was coming by, if but even his shadow might pass over some of them.
Then came together also a multitude from the neighbouring cities to Jerusalem, bringing the sick, and those who were disturbed by unclean spirits; who were healed universally.
Then arose the high-priest, and all those who were connected with him, (which was the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with zeal,
and laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison.
But the angel of the Lord by night opened the doors of the prison, and conducting them forth, said,
Go, and taking your station in the temple, speak to the people all the words of this life.
Having heard this therefore, they entered very early in the morning into the temple, and taught. But when the high-priest came, and those who were with him, they convoked the sanhedrim, and all the assembly of elders of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to bring them.
But the officers, on their arrival, found them not in the prison: and returning, informed them,
saying; The prison indeed found we fast locked with all security, and the guards standing without, before the door: but when we opened it, we found no person within.
Now when they heard these words, both the priest and captain of the temple and the chief priests were in the utmost perplexity concerning these things, what could be the meaning of it.
Then came a person and informed them, saying, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.
Then went the captain, with the officers, and brought them; not forcibly, for they were afraid of the people, lest they should stone them.
But when they had conducted them, they placed them in the sanhedrim: and the high-priest interrogated them,
saying, Did we not lay our strict injunction upon you, that you should not teach in this name? and, lo, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and would fain bring this man’s blood upon us.
Then Peter and the apostles answering said, We must obey God rather than men.
The God of our fathers hath raised up Jesus, whom ye had killed, suspending him on a tree.
Him hath God exalted at his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance unto Israel, and remission of sins.
And we are witnesses of these things; and the Holy Ghost also, which God hath given to those who obey him.
But when they heard this, they were cut asunder as with a saw, and took counsel how to make away with them.
Then arose a certain Pharisee, in the sanhedrim, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, held in high esteem by all the people, and ordered the apostles to be taken out for a little space;
and he said unto them, Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves respecting these men, what ye mean to do to them.
For before these days arose Theudas, saying that he himself was a singular personage: to whom a number of men, about four hundred, attached themselves: who was taken off; and as many as obeyed him, were dispersed, and came to nothing.
And after him arose Judas the Galilean, in the days of the enrolment, and drew away a multitude of the populace after him: he also perished, and all, as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
And as to the matters now before you, I say unto you, Abstain from these men, and leave them to themselves: for if this design or this work be of men, it will come to nothing:
but if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; and in that case would be found fighters against God.
And to him they assented: and calling in the apostles, after scourging them, they commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and dismissed them.
Then they went rejoicing from the presence of the sanhedrim, that for his name’s sake, they had been counted worthy to suffer this injurious treatment.
And all the day long in the temple, and from house to house, they never ceased teaching and preaching Jesus Christ.