And, Agrippa, to Paul, said—It is permitted thee, on thine own behalf, to be speaking. Then Paul, stretching forth his hand, went on to make his defence.
Concerning all things of which I am accused by Jews, King Agrippa, I have been counting myself happy, that, before thee, am I about, this day, to be making my defence;
especially, as thou art, well-versed, in all the Jewish customs and questions. Wherefore, I beseech thee, patiently, to hear me.
My manner of life, then, from my youth, which, from its commencement, was formed among my nation, even in Jerusalem, know all Jews,
inasmuch as they were aforetime observing me, from the outset,—if they please to bear witness,—that, according to the strictest sect of our own religion, I lived, a Pharisee.
And, now, for the hope of the promise, unto our fathers, being brought to pass by God, am I standing to be judged,—
unto which [hope], our twelve-tribed nation, with intensity, night and day, rendering divine service, is hoping to attain—concerning which hope, I am being accused by Jews, O King!
What! incredible, is it judged with you, that, God the dead doth raise?
I, therefore, imagined to myself, that, against the name of Jesus the Nazarene, it was needful, many hostile things, to bring about,—
which also I did in Jerusalem, yea and, many of the saints, I myself, in prisons, shut up,—the authority, from the High-priests, having received: and, when they were to be put to death, I brought against them my vote;
and, throughout all the synagogues, ofttimes punishing them, I would fain have compelled them to defame; and, being excessively maddened against them, I went on to pursue them as far as even the outlying cities.
Among which things, being on a journey unto Damascus, with the authority and commission of the High-priests,
at mid-day, on the road, I saw, O King, from heaven, above the splendour of the sun, shining around me, a light, and [around] them who, with me, were journeying;
and, when we were all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice, saying unto me, in the Hebrew language—Saul! Saul! why, me, art thou persecuting? It is hard for thee, against goads, to be kicking!
And, I, said—Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said—I, am Jesus, whom, thou, art persecuting!
But rise and stand upon thy feet; for, to this end, have I appeared unto thee,—To appoint thee an attendant and a witness, both of the things as to which thou hast seen me, and of those as to which I will appear unto thee:
Rescuing thee from among the people, and from among the nations, unto whom, I, am sending thee—
To open their eyes; that they turn from darkness unto light, and the authority of Satan unto God, that they may receive remission of sins, and an inheritance among them who have been made holy by the faith respecting me.
Wherefore, O King Agrippa,—I became not disobedient unto the heavenly vision;
But—both to them in Damascus, first, and in Jerusalem, unto all the country of Judaea also, and unto the nations, I carried tidings—that they should repent, and turn unto God, and, works worthy of their repentance, should practise.
Because of these things, Jews seized me in the temple, and were attempting to slay me with their own hands.
So then, having met with, the help that is from God, until this day, do I stand, witnessing to both small and great, nothing else saying, than those things which both the prophets, and Moses, did say should certainly come to pass:—
If, to suffer, the Christ was destined, if, the first of a resurrection of the dead, he is about to carry tidings, of light, both unto the people, and unto the nations.
Now, as he was saying these things in his defence, Festus, with a loud voice, saith—Thou art raving, Paul! Thy great learning, is turning thee round unto, raving madness.
But Paul—I am not raving (saith he), most noble Festus,—but, the declarations of truth and soberness, am I sounding forth:
For well-knoweth, the king, concerning these things, unto whom, with boldness of utterance, am I speaking; for, that these things are not hidden from him, I am well persuaded,—for, not in a corner, hath this thing been done.
Believest thou, King Agrippa, in the prophets? I know that thou believest!
And, Agrippa, [said] unto Paul—Almost, art thou persuading, me, to become a, Christian!
And, Paul, [answered] —I could pray unto God that, both almost and altogether, not only thou but all they who are hearing me this day, might become such,—as even, I, am, excepting these bonds.
And the king rose up, and the governor, Bernice also, and they who had been sitting with them;
And, retiring, they began conversing one with another, saying, Nothing worthy of death or of bonds, doth this man practise.
And, Agrippa, unto Festus, said—This man might have been released, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.