And it happened, when Jesus had finished these sayings, that He departed from Galilee and came into the borders of Judea beyond Jordan.
And great crowds followed Him. And He healed them there.
And the Pharisees came to Him, tempting Him and saying to Him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?
And He answered and said to them, Have you not read that He who made them at the beginning "made them male and female",
and said, "For this cause a man shall leave father and mother and shall cling to his wife, and the two of them shall be one flesh?"
"Therefore they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together, let not man separate."
They said to Him, Why did Moses then command to give a bill of divorce and to put her away?
He said to them, Because of your hard-heartedness Moses allowed you to put away your wives; but from the beginning it was not so.
And I say to you, Whoever shall put away his wife, except for fornication, and shall marry another, commits adultery; and whoever marries her who is put away commits adultery.
His disciples said to Him, If this is the case of the man with his wife, it is not good to marry.
But He said to them, Not all receive this word, except those to whom it is given.
For there are some eunuchs who were born so from their mother's womb; and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of Heaven's sake. He who is able to receive it, let him receive it.
Then little children were brought to Him, that He should put His hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus said, Allow the little children to come to Me, and do not forbid them; for of such is the kingdom of Heaven.
And He laid His hands on them, and departed from there.
And behold, one came and said to Him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?
And He said to him, Why do you call Me good? There is none good but one, that is, God. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments.
He said to Him, Which? Jesus said, You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness,
honor your father and mother, and, you shall love your neighbor as yourself.
The young man said to Him, I have kept all these things from my youth up; what do I lack yet?
Jesus said to him, If you want to be perfect, go, sell what you have and give to the poor, and you shall have treasure in Heaven. And come, follow Me.
But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful; for he had great possessions.
Then Jesus said to His disciples, Truly I say to you that a rich man will with great difficulty enter into the kingdom of Heaven.
And again I say to you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
When His disciples heard, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?
But Jesus looked on them and said to them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.
Then answering Peter said to Him, Behold, we have forsaken all and have followed You. Therefore what shall we have?
And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you who have followed Me, in the regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of His glory, you also shall sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And everyone who left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for My name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.
But many who are first shall be last; and the last shall be first.