Then we turned, and went up the way to Bashan. And Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
And Jehovah said to me, Fear him not, for I have delivered him, and all his people, and his land, into thy hand. And thou shall do to him as thou did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon.
So Jehovah our God delivered into our hand Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people, and we smote him until none was left to him remaining.
And we took all his cities at that time. There was not a city which we did not take from them, sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars; besides the un-walled towns a great many.
And we utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying every inhabited city, with the women and the little ones.
But all the cattle, and the spoil of the cities, we took for a prey to ourselves.
And we took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, from the valley of the Arnon to mount Hermon
(the Sidonians call Hermon, Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir),
all the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, to Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
(For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of the Rephaim. Behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron. Is it not in Rabbah of the sons of Ammon? Nine cubits was the length of it, and four cubits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a man.)
And we took this land in possession at that time. From Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, and half the hill-country of Gilead, and the cities of it, I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites.
And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh, all the region of Argob, even all Bashan. The same is called the land of Rephaim.
(Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and called them, even Bashan, after his own name, Havvoth-jair, to this day.)
And I gave Gilead to Machir.
And I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gadites from Gilead even to the valley of the Arnon, the middle of the valley, and the border of it, even to the river Jabbok, which is the border of the sons of Ammon,
also the Arabah, and the Jordan and the border of it, from Chinnereth even to the sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, under the slopes of Pisgah eastward.
And I commanded you at that time, saying, Jehovah your God has given you this land to possess it. Ye shall pass over armed before your brothers the sons of Israel, all the men of valor.
But your wives, and your little ones, and your cattle, (I know that ye have much cattle,) shall abide in your cities which I have given you
until Jehovah gives rest to your brothers, as to you, and they also possess the land which Jehovah your God gives them beyond the Jordan, then ye shall return every man to his possession, which I have given you.
And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Thine eyes have seen all that Jehovah your God has done to these two kings. So shall Jehovah do to all the kingdoms where thou go over.
Ye shall not fear them, for Jehovah your God, he it is who fights for you.
And I besought Jehovah at that time, saying,
O lord Jehovah, thou have begun to show thy servant thy greatness, and thy strong hand, for what god is there in heaven or in earth, that can do according to thy works, and according to thy mighty acts?
Let me go over, I pray thee, and see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, that goodly mountain, and Lebanon.
But Jehovah was angry with me because of you, and did not hearken to me. And Jehovah said to me, It shall be enough for thee. Speak no more to me of this matter.
Get thee up to the top of Pisgah, and lift up thine eyes westward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and behold with thine eyes, for thou shall not go over this Jordan.
But charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him, for he shall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which thou shall see.
So we abode in the valley opposite Beth-peor.