But now thus saith HaShem that created thee, O Jacob, and He that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name, thou art Mine.
When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.
For I am HaShem thy G-d, The Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour; I have given Egypt as thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.
Since thou art precious in My sight, and honourable, and I have loved thee; therefore will I give men for thee, and peoples for thy life.
Fear not, for I am with thee; I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west;
I will say to the north: 'Give up,' and to the south: 'Keep not back, bring My sons from far, and My daughters from the end of the earth;
Every one that is called by My name, and whom I have created for My glory, I have formed him, yea, I have made him.'
The blind people that have eyes shall be brought forth, and the deaf that have ears.
All the nations are gathered together, and the peoples are assembled; who among them can declare this, and announce to us former things? Let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; and let them hear, and say: 'It is truth.'
Ye are My witnesses, saith HaShem, and My servant whom I have chosen; that ye may know and believe Me, and understand that I am He; before Me there was no G-d formed, neither shall any be after Me.
I, even I, am HaShem; and beside Me there is no saviour.
I have declared, and I have saved, and I have announced, and there was no strange god among you; therefore ye are My witnesses, saith HaShem, and I am G-d.
Yea, since the day was I am He, and there is none that can deliver out of My hand; I will work, and who can reverse it?
Thus saith HaShem, your Redeemer, The Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring down all of them as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their shouting.
I am HaShem, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.
Thus saith HaShem, who maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters;
Who bringeth forth the chariot and horse, the army and the power--they lie down together, they shall not rise, they are extinct, they are quenched as a wick:
Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old.
Behold, I will do a new thing; now shall it spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert.
The beasts of the field shall honour Me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to My people, Mine elect;
The people which I formed for Myself, that they might tell of My praise.
Yet thou hast not called upon Me, O Jacob, neither hast thou wearied thyself about Me, O Israel.
Thou hast not brought Me the small cattle of thy burnt-offerings; neither hast thou honoured Me with thy sacrifices. I have not burdened thee with a meal-offering, nor wearied thee with frankincense.
Thou hast bought Me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou satisfied Me with the fat of thy sacrifices; but thou hast burdened Me with thy sins, thou hast wearied Me with thine iniquities.
I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy transgressions for Mine own sake; and thy sins I will not remember.
Put Me in remembrance, let us plead together; declare thou, that thou mayest be justified.
Thy first father sinned, and thine intercessors have transgressed against Me.
Therefore I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, and I have given Jacob to condemnation, and Israel to reviling.