And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels: Go and pour out the bowls of the anger of God onto the earth.
And the first went away and poured out his bowl onto the earth. And it became a bad and evil sore onto the men, the ones having the mark of the beast, and the ones worshiping its image.
And the second angel poured out his bowl onto the sea. And it became blood, as of a dead one, and every soul of life died in the sea.
And the third angel poured out his bowl onto the rivers, and onto the fountains of the waters; and it became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters saying, You are righteous, Lord, the One who is, and who was, and who will be, because You judged these things,
since they poured out the blood of the saints and of the prophets; and You gave blood to them to drink, for they were deserving.
And I heard another out of the altar saying, Yes, Lord God Almighty, Your judgments are true and righteous.
And the fourth angel poured out his bowl onto the sun. And it was given to him to burn men with fire.
And men were burned with great heat. And they blasphemed the name of God, the One having authority over these plagues and they did not repent to give Him glory.
And the fifth angel poured out his bowl onto the throne of the beast. And its kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues from the pain.
And they blasphemed the God of Heaven, from their pains and from their sores. And they did not repent of their works.
And the sixth angel poured out his bowl onto the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up so that might be prepared the way of the kings from the rising of the sun.
And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
For they are spirits of demons doing signs, which go forth to the kings of the earth, even of the whole habitable world to assemble them to the war of that day, the great day of God Almighty.
Behold, I am coming as a thief. Blessed is the one watching and keeping his garments, that he does not walk naked, and they may see his shame.
And He assembled them in the place having been called in Hebrew, Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a great voice came from the throne from the temple of Heaven, saying, It has happened!
And voices and thunders and lightnings occurred. And a great earthquake occurred, such as did not occur since man came into being on the earth, such a huge earthquake, so great!
And the great city came to be into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And Babylon the great was remembered before God, to give to her the cup of the wine of the anger of His wrath.
And every island fled away, and mountains were not found.
And a great hail, as the size of a talent, came down out of the heaven upon men. And men blasphemed God from the plague of the hail, because its plague is exceedingly great.