Then was Jesus led up by the Spirit into the wilderness, to be tempted by the devil.
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward hungry.
And the tempter came to him and said: If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread.
But he answered and said: It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes forth from the mouth of God.
Then the devil took him into the holy city, and placed him on the pinnacle of the temple,
and said to him: If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written: He will give his angels charge concerning you; and in their hands shall they take you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.
Jesus said to him: It is again written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the proof.
Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them,
and said to him: All these things will I give you, if you will fall down and worship me.
Then Jesus said to him: Get behind me, Satan, for it is written: You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.
Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him.
Now when Jesus heard that John was delivered up; he withdrew into Galilee;
and, leaving Nazareth, he went and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea, in the borders of Zebulon and Naphtali,
that the word might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying:
The land of Zebulon, and the land of Naphtali, toward the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles;
the people that sat in darkness saw great light; and upon those who sat in the region and shadow of death light has risen.
From that time Jesus began to preach and to say: Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
And as he was walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, throwing a net into the sea, for they were fishers.
And he said to them: Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.
And they immediately left their nets and followed him.
And going on thence, he saw other two brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and he called them.
And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him.
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and curing every disease, and every kind of sickness among the people.
And his fame went abroad into all Syria. And they brought to him all that were sick, those who were afflicted with various diseases and pains, and those who were possessed with demons, and lunatics, and paralytics; and he cured them.
And many multitudes followed him from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judea, and from beyond the Jordan.