My God, my God, why have you left me, gone afar from my cry, from the words of my roaring?
I cry in the day-time, but you do not answer; even in the night I am never still.
Yet you, O Lord, are the Holy One, throned on the praises of Israel.
In you our ancestors trusted, they trusted and you did deliver them.
They cried to you, and found safety, in you did they trust and were not put to shame.
But I am a worm, not a person; insulted by others, despised by the people.
All who see me mock me, with mouths wide open and wagging heads:
“He committed himself to the Lord; let him save him. Let him rescue him, since he takes pleasure in him.”
But you drew me from the womb, made me trustfully lie on my mother’s breast.
On your care was I cast from my very birth, you are my God from my mother’s womb.
Be not far from me, for trouble is nigh, and there is none to help.
I am circled by many bulls, beset by the mighty of Bashan,
who face me with gaping jaws, like ravening roaring lions.
Poured out am I like water, and all my bones are loosened. My heart is become like wax, melted within me.
My palate is dry as a sherd, my tongue sticks to my jaws; in the dust of death you lay me.
For dogs are round about me, a band of knaves encircles me, gnawing my hands and my feet.
I can count my bones, every one. As for them, they feast their eyes on me.
They divide my garments among them, and over my raiment cast lots.
But you, O Lord, be not far, O my strength, hasten to help me.
Deliver my life from the sword my life from the power of the dogs.
Save me from the jaws of the lion, from the horns of the wild oxen help me.
I will tell of your fame to my kindred, and in the assembly will praise you.
Praise the Lord, you who fear him. All Jacob’s seed, give him glory. All Israel’s seed, stand in awe of him.
For he has not despised nor abhorred the sorrow of the sorrowful. He hid not his face from me, but he listened to my cry for help.
Of you is my praise in the great congregation; my vows I will pay before those who fear him.
The afflicted will eat to their heart’s desire, and those who seek after the Lord will praise him. Lift up your hearts forever.
All will call it to mind, to the ends of the earth, and turn to the Lord; and all tribes of the nations will bow down before you.
For the kingdom belongs to the Lord: he is the Lord of the nations.
To him will bow down all who sleep in the earth, and before him bend all who go down to the dust, and those who could not preserve their lives.
My descendents will tell of the Lord to the next generation;
they will declare his righteousness to people yet to be born: He has done it.