And, unto the messenger of the assembly, in Sardis, write:—These things, saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars: I know thy works,—that, a name, thou hast, that thou art living, and art, dead.
Become thou watchful, and strengthen the things that remain, that were about to die; for I have not found thy works fulfilled before my God.
Remember, therefore, how thou hast received, and didst hear, and keep it and repent. If then thou shall not watch, I will have come as a thief, and in nowise shalt thou get to know, during what sort of hour, I will have come upon thee.
Nevertheless, thou hast a few names, in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white, because they are, worthy.
He that overcometh, shall, thus, array himself in white garments, and in nowise will I blot out his name, from the book of life; and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his messengers.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what, the Spirit, is saying unto the assemblies.
And, unto the messenger of the assembly, in Philadelphia, write:—These things, saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth and no one shall shut, and shutteth and no one openeth:
I know thy works,—lo! I have set before thee an open door, as to which, no one, can shut it,—that thou hast, a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.
Lo! I give them of the synagogue of Satan, who are affirming themselves to be, Jews, and are not,—but say what is false,—lo! I will cause them, that they shall have come, and shall bow down before thy feet, and shall get to know that, I, loved thee.
Because thou didst keep my word of endurance, I also, will keep thee out of the hour of trial, which is about to come upon the whole habitable world, to try them that dwell upon the earth.
I come quickly: hold fast that which thou hast, that, no one, take thy crown.
He that overcometh, I will make, him, a pillar in the sanctuary of my God, and, outside, shall he in nowise go forth any more; and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God, and [I will write upon him] my new name.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what, the Spirit, is saying unto the assemblies.
And, unto the messenger of the assembly, in Laodicea, write:—These things, saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness the beginning of the creation of God:
I know thy works;—that neither, cold, art thou, nor hot: I would that, cold, thou hadst been, or hot.
Thus, because, lukewarm, thou art, and neither hot nor cold, I am about to vomit thee out of my mouth.
Because thou sayest, Rich, am I, and have become enriched, and, of nothing, have I need, and knowest not that, thou, art the wretched one, and pitiable, and destitute, and blind, and naked,
I counsel thee to buy of me, gold refined by fire, that thou mayest become rich,—and white raiment, that thou mayest array thyself, and, the shame of thy nakedness, may not be made manifest,—and eye-salve, to anoint thine eyes, that thou mayest see.
I, as many as I tenderly love, I convict and put under discipline: be zealous, therefore, and repent.
Lo! I am standing at the door, and knocking; if anyone shall hearken unto my voice, and open the door, I will come in unto him, and will sup with him, and, he, with, me.
He that overcometh, I will give, unto him, to take his seat with me in my throne, as, I also, overcame, and took my seat with my Father in his throne.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what, the Spirit, is saying unto the assemblies.