And Job answered the LORD and said,
I know that You can do all, and not any purpose is withheld from You.
Who is he who hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have spoken what I did not understand; things too wonderful for me; yea, I did not know.
Hear, I beseech You, and I will speak; I will ask You, and You will cause me to know.
I have heard of You by the hearing of the ear; but now my eye has seen You.
Therefore I despise myself, and repent in dust and ashes.
And it happened after the LORD had spoken these words to Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against you and your two friends. For you have not spoken of Me what is right, as My servant Job has.
And now take to yourselves seven young bulls and seven rams, and go to My servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering. And My servant Job will pray for you. Surely I will lift up his face so as not to do with you  according to your foolishness, in that you have not spoken of Me what is right, like My servant Job.
And Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, went and did as the LORD commanded them. The LORD also accepted the face of Job.
And the LORD turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. Also the LORD added to Job all that had been his, to double.
And came to him all his brothers, and all his sisters, and all those who had known him before. And they ate bread with him in his house, and consoled him and comforted him over all the evil that the LORD had brought on him. Each one also gave him a piece of money, and each one a ring of gold.
And the LORD blessed the latter days of Job more than the beginning. For he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.
He also had seven sons and three daughters.
And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third, Keren-happuch.
And in all the land there were not found women as beautiful as the daughters of Job. And their father gave them inheritance among their brothers.
After this Job lived a hundred and forty years, and he saw his sons, and his sons' sons, four generations.
And Job died, being old and full of days.