but, on the first day of the week, at early dawn, unto the tomb, came they, bringing the spices which they had prepared.
And they found the stone, rolled away from the tomb;
but, when they entered, they found not the body [[of the Lord Jesus]].
And it came to pass, while they were perplexing themselves concerning this, that lo! two men, stood near them, in dazzling raiment.
And, they becoming afraid, and bending their faces unto the ground, they said unto them—Why seek ye the Living One with the dead?
[[He is not here, but hath arisen:]] Remember how he spake unto you while yet he was in Galilee:
Saying, as to the Son of Man, that he must needs be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified,—and, on the third day, arise.
And they remembered his sayings;
and, returning [from the tomb], reported all these things unto the eleven, and unto all the rest.
Now they were the Magdalene Mary, and Joana, and Mary the mother of James; and, the other women with them, were telling, unto the apostles, these things.
And these sayings appeared before them, as if idle talk, and they were minded to disbelieve them.
[[But, Peter, arising, ran unto the tomb,—and, bending near, beholdeth the linen bandages, alone; and departed, unto himself, marvelling at the thing that had happened.]]
And lo! two from among them, on the selfsame day, were journeying unto a village, distant sixty furlongs from Jerusalem, the name of which, was Emmaus;
and, they, were conversing one with another, about all these things which had occurred.
And it came to pass, as they were conversing and reasoning together, that, Jesus himself, drawing near, was journeying with them;
but, their eyes, were held, so as not to know him.
And he said unto them—What are these things which ye are debating one with another, as ye walk along? And they came to a stand, sad in countenance.
But one, by name Cleopas, answering, said unto him—Art, thou, lodging, alone, in Jerusalem, and knowest not the things which have come to pass therein in these days?
And he said unto them—What things? And, they, said unto him—The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who became a prophet, mighty in work and word, before God and all the people:
In what way also our High-priests and Rulers delivered him up unto a sentence of death, and crucified him.
We, however, were hoping that, he, was the one destined to redeem Israel! But indeed, even with all these things, this brings on, the third, day, since these things happened:—
Nay! certain women also, from amongst us, have made us beside ourselves, in that they went early unto the tomb;
and, not finding his body, came, saying—that, a vision of messengers, they had seen, who were affirming him to be alive.
And certain of them who were with us departed unto the tomb,—and found so, according as, the women, had said; but, him, they saw not.
And, he, said unto them—O thoughtless ones! and slow in heart to rest your faith upon all things which the prophets have spoken:—
Was it not needful for the Christ, these very things, to suffer, and to enter into his glory?
And, beginning from Moses, and from all the prophets, he thoroughly explained to them, in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself.
And they drew near unto the village, whither they were journeying; and, he, made for journeying, further.
And they constrained him, saying—Abide with us; because it is, towards evening, and the day hath already declined. And he went in to abide with them.
And it came to pass, when he reclined with them, taking the loaf, he blessed, and, breaking it, went on to give unto them.
And, their, eyes were opened, and they knew him; and, he, vanished from them.
And they said one to another—Was not, our heart, burning, as he was speaking to us in the way, as he was opening to us the Scriptures?
And, arising in that very hour, they returned unto Jerusalem,—and found, gathered together, the eleven, and them who were with them,
saying—In truth, the Lord hath arisen, and hath appeared unto Simon!
And, they, went on to relate the things, [that had passed] on the journey, and how he was made known unto them in the breaking of the loaf.
Now, as, these very things, they were telling, he himself, stood in their midst [[and saith unto them—Peace to you!]]
But, being agitated and becoming, afraid, they began to imagine, that, upon a spirit, they were looking.
And he said unto them—Why are ye troubled? and for what cause do reasonings arise in your hearts?
See my hands, and my feet,—that it is, I, myself: Handle me, and see! because, a spirit, hath not, flesh and bones, as ye perceive, I, have.
[[And, this saying, he pointed out to them his hands and his feet.]]
Now, while yet they believed not for the joy, and were marvelling, he said unto them—Have ye anything to eat, here?
And they gave unto him a piece of boiled fish;
and, taking it before them, he did eat.
And he said unto them—These, are my words, which I spake unto you yet being with you: That all the things that are written in the law of Moses and the Prophets and Psalms, concerning me, must needs be fulfilled.
Then, opened he their mind, to understand the Scriptures;
and said unto them—Thus, it is written, That the Christ, should suffer, and arise from among the dead on the third day;
And that repentance for remission of sins should be proclaimed upon his name unto all the nations,—beginning from Jerusalem.
Ye, are witnesses of these things.
And lo! I, am sending forth the promise of my Father upon you; but tarry, ye, in the city, until ye be clothed, from on high, with power.
And he led them forth as far as unto Bethany; and, uplifting his hands, he blessed them.
And it came to pass, while he was blessing them, he parted from them [[and was born up into heaven.]]
And, they, [[having bowed down unto him]] returned unto Jerusalem, with great joy;
and were continually in the temple, blessing God.