And he led me to the gate, the gate that faces eastward.
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east. And His voice was like the voice of many waters. And the earth shone from His glory.
And the appearance of the vision which I saw was as the appearance which I saw when I came to destroy the city, and as the appearance that I saw by the river Chebar. And I fell on my face.
And the glory of Jehovah came into the house, the way of the gate facing eastward.
And the Spirit took me up and brought me into the inner court. And, behold, the glory of Jehovah filled the house!
And I heard one speaking to me from the house. And standing beside me was a Man.
And He said to me, Son of man, the place of My throne and the place of the soles of My feet, there where I will dwell among the sons of Israel forever, even the house of Israel shall not defile My holy name any more, they nor their kings, by their fornication, nor by the corpses of their kings in their high places.
In their setting of their threshold by My threshold, and their door post beside My door post, and the wall between Me and them, even they have defiled My holy name by their abominations that they have done. And I consumed them in My anger.
Now let them put away their fornication and the corpses of their kings from Me, and I will dwell in their midst forever.
You, son of man, declare to the house of Israel, the temple house, and they will blush from their iniquities. And let them measure its size.
And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, the form of the house, and its arrangement, and its exits, and its entrances, and all its forms, and all its statutes, and all its forms, and all its laws, make them known to them. And write them in their sight, so that they may observe all its form, and all its statutes, and do them.
This is the law of the house: On the top of the mountain is all its border, all around, being most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house.
And these are the measures of the altar by the cubit: the cubit is a cubit and a span, even the base shall be a cubit, and the width a cubit, and its border on its lip all around shall be one span. And this is the upper part of the altar.
And from the base on the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and the width one cubit. And from the smaller ledge to the greater ledge shall be four cubits, and the width a cubit.
And the altar hearth shall be four cubits, and from the altar hearth and upward shall be four horns.
And the altar hearth shall be twelve cubits long, and twelve wide, square in its four sides.
And the ledge shall be fourteen long, fourteen wide, in its four sides. And the border around it shall be a half cubit, and the base for it a cubit all around. And its steps shall face the east.
And He said to me, Son of man, so says the Lord Jehovah: These are the statutes of the altar in the day of its being made to offer on it burnt offerings, and to sprinkle on it blood.
And you shall give to the priests of the Levites, (they who are from the seed of Zadok, who approach to Me), declares the Lord Jehovah, to minister to Me, a bull, a son of the herd, for a sin offering.
And you shall take of its blood and put it on its four horns, and on the four corners of the ledge, and on the border all around. And you shall cleanse it and atone for it.
And you shall take the bull of the sin offering, and he shall burn it at the appointed place of the house outside the sanctuary.
And on the second day you shall bring a perfect buck of the goats for a sin offering. And they shall cleanse the altar, as they cleansed it with the bull.
When you have finished cleansing, you shall bring a perfect bull, a son of the herd, and a perfect ram out of the flock.
And you shall bring them before Jehovah, and the priests shall throw salt on them, and they shall offer them for a burnt offering to Jehovah.
For seven days you shall daily prepare a he goat for a sin offering. And they shall prepare a bull, a son of the herd, and a ram out of the flock, perfect ones .
They shall atone seven days for the altar, and cleanse it, and consecrate it .
And when the days are completed, it shall be on the eighth day and forward, the priests shall make your burnt offerings, and your peace offerings, on the altar. And I will accept you, declares the Lord Jehovah.