Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looks toward the east.
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east. And his voice was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory.
And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city. And the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar. And I fell upon my face.
And the glory of Jehovah came into the house by the way of the gate whose view is toward the east.
And the Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court, and, behold, the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
And I heard speaking to me out of the house, and a man stood by me.
And he said to me, Son of man, this is the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel forever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, neither they, nor their kings, by their whoredom, and by the dead bodies of their kings in their high places,
in their setting of their threshold by my threshold, and their door-post beside my door-post, and there was but the wall between me and them. And they have defiled my holy name by their abominations which they have committed. Therefore I have consumed them in my anger.
Now let them put away their whoredom, and the dead bodies of their kings, far from me, and I will dwell in the midst of them forever.
Thou, son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities, and let them measure the pattern.
And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the form of the house, and the fashion of it, and the exits of it, and the entrances of it, and all the forms of it, and all the ordinances of it, and all the forms of it, and all the laws of it. And write it in their sight, that they may keep the whole form of it, and all the ordinances of it, and do them.
This is the law of the house. Upon the top of the mountain the whole limit of it round about shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house.
And these are the measures of the altar by cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a handbreadth). The bottom shall be a cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and the border of it by the edge of it round about a span. And this shall be the base of the altar.
And from the bottom upon the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit. And from the lesser ledge to the greater ledge shall be four cubits, and the breadth a cubit.
And the upper altar shall be four cubits. And from the altar hearth and upward there shall be four horns.
And the altar hearth shall be twelve long by twelve broad, square in the four sides of it.
And the ledge shall be fourteen long by fourteen broad in the four sides of it. And the border about it shall be half a cubit, and the bottom of it shall be a cubit round about. And the steps of it shall look toward the east.
And he said to me, Son of man, thus says the lord Jehovah: These are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they shall make it, to offer burnt offerings on it, and to sprinkle blood on it.
Thou shall give to the priests the Levites who are of the seed of Zadok, who are near to me, to minister to me, says the lord Jehovah, a young bullock for a sin offering.
And thou shall take of the blood of it, and put it on the four horns of it, and on the four corners of the ledge, and upon the border round about. Thus thou shall cleanse it and make atonement for it.
Thou shall also take the bullock of the sin offering, and it shall be burnt in the appointed place of the house, outside the sanctuary.
And on the second day thou shall offer a he-goat without blemish for a sin offering. And they shall cleanse the altar, as they cleansed it with the bullock.
When thou have made an end of cleansing it, thou shall offer a young bullock without blemish, and a ram out of the flock without blemish.
And thou shall bring them near before Jehovah, and the priests shall cast salt upon them, and they shall offer them up for a burnt offering to Jehovah.
Seven days thou shall prepare each day a goat for a sin offering. They shall also prepare a young bullock, and a ram out of the flock, without blemish.
Seven days they shall make atonement for the altar and purify it. So they shall consecrate it.
And when they have accomplished the days, it shall be that upon the eighth day, and forward, the priests shall make your burnt offerings upon the altar, and your peace offerings. And I will accept you, says the lord Jehovah.