These, are the departures of the sons of Israel whereby they came forth out of the land of Egypt by their hosts,—in the hand of Moses and Aaron.
And Moses wrote their comings forth by their departures, at the bidding of Yahweh,—and these, are their departures by their comings forth.
So then they brake up from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month, on the morrow of the passover, came forth the sons of Israel with an uplifted hand, in the sight of all the Egyptians;
when the Egyptians, were burying them whom Yahweh had smitten among them, every firstborn,—when, upon their gods, Yahweh had executed judgments,
Thus then the sons of Israel brake up from Rameses,—and encamped in Succoth.
And they brake up from Succoth,—and encamped in Etham, which is at the edge of the desert.
And they brake up from Etham, and turned upon Pi-hahiroth, which is over against Baal-zephon,—and encamped before Migdol.
And they brake up from before Hahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea towards the desert,—and went their way a journey of three days in the desert of Etham, and encamped in Marah.
And they brake up from Marah, and came in towards Elim; there being, in Elim, twelve fountains of water, and seventy palm-trees, so they encamped there.
And they brake up from Elim,—and encamped by the Red Sea.
And they brake up from the Red Sea,—and encamped in the desert of Sin.
And they brake up from the desert of Sin,—and encamped in Dophkah.
And they brake up from Dophkah,—and encamped in Alush.
And they brake up from Alush,—and encamped in Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.
And they brake up from Rephidim,—and encamped in the desert of Sinai.
And they brake up from the desert of Sinai,—and encamped in Kibroth-hattaavah.
And they brake up from Kibroth-hattaavah,—and encamped in Hazeroth.
And they brake up from Hazeroth,—and encamped in Rithmah.
And they brake up from Rithmah,—and encamped in Rimmon-perez.
And they brake up from Rimmon-perez,—and encamped in Libnah.
And they brake up from Libnah,—and encamped in Rissah.
And they brake up from Rissah,—and encamped in Kehelathah.
And they brake up from Kehelathah,—and encamped in Mount Shepher.
And they brake up from Mount Shepher,—and encamped in Haradah.
And they brake up from Haradah,—and encamped in Makheloth.
And they brake up from Makheloth,—and encamped in Tahath.
And they brake up from Tahath,—and encamped in Terah.
And they brake up from Terah,—and encamped in Mithkah.
And they brake up from Mithkah,—and encamped in Hashmonah.
And they brake up from Hashmonah,—and encamped in Moseroth.
And they brake up from Moseroth, and encamped in Bene-jaakan.
And they brake up from Bene-jaakan, and encamped in Hor-haggidgad.
And they brake up from Hor-haggidgad,—and encamped in Jotbathah,—
And they brake up from Jotbathah,—and encamped in Abronah.
And they brake up from Abronah,—and encamped in Eziongeber.
And they brake up from Eziongeber,—and encamped in the desert of Zin, the same, is Kadesh.
And they brake, up from Kadesh,—and encamped in Mount Hor, on the outskirts of the land of Edom;
and Aaron the priest went up into Mount Hor, at the bidding of Yahweh, and died there, in the fortieth year, by the coming forth of the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first of the month.
Now, Aaron, was a hundred and twenty-three years old, when he died in Mount Hor.
And a Canaanite king of Arad, who was dwelling in the South, in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming in of the sons of Israel.
And, they brake up from Mount Hor,—and encamped in Zalmonah.
And they brake up from Zalmonah,—and encamped in Punon.
And they brake up from Punon, and encamped in Oboth.
And they brake up from Oboth,—and encamped in Iye-abarim, within the bounds of Moab.
And they brake up from Iyim,—and encamped in Dibon-gad.
And they brake up from Dibon-gad, and encamped in Almon-diblathaim.
And they brake up from Almon-diblathaim,—and encamped among the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
And they brake up from the mountains of Abarim,—and encamped in the waste plains of Moab, by Jordan near Jericho.
Thus did they encamp by the Jordan from Beth-jeshimoth unto Abel-Shittim [that is, "The acacia—meadows"]—in the waste plains of Moab.
And Yahweh spake unto Moses, in the waste plains of Moab, by Jordan near Jericho saying:
Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them,—When ye do pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
then shall ye dispossess all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and shall destroy all their figured stones,—all their molten images, also shall ye destroy, and all their high places, shall ye lay waste.
So shall ye possess the land, and settle down therein,—for unto you, have I given the land to possess it.
And ye shall take your inheritance in the land by lot by your families—for the large one, ye shall make large his inheritance, and for the small one, make small his inheritance, whithersoever the lot cometh out to him, his, shall, it be, by the tribes of your fathers, shall ye take your inheritance.
But if ye do not dispossess the inhabitants of the land from before you, then shall it be. that they whom ye leave remaining of them will become pricks in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and will harass you, concerning the land, wherein, ye are settling down.
And it shall be, that as I thought to do unto them, I will do unto you.