The visions of Isaiah, the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth! For Jehovah speaketh: "I have nourished and brought up children, And they have rebelled against me.
The ox knoweth his owner, And the ass his master’s crib; But Israel doth not know; My people do not consider."
Ah, sinful nation! a people laden with iniquity! A race of evil-doers! degenerate children! They have forsaken Jehovah; they have despised the Holy One of Israel; They have gone backward.
Where can ye be smitten again, Since ye renew your rebellion? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint;
From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it; It is all bruises, and stripes, and flesh wounds, Neither pressed, nor bound up, nor softened with ointment.
Your country is desolate; Your cities are burnt with fire; Your ground, strangers devour it before your eyes; It is become desolate, destroyed by an enemy.
And the daughter of Zion is left as a shed in a vineyard, As a hut in a garden of cucumbers, As a besieged city.
Had not Jehovah of hosts left us a small remnant, We had soon become as Sodom; We had been like to Gomorrah.
Hear ye the word of Jehovah, ye princes of Sodom! Give ear to the instruction of our God, ye people of Gomorrah!
What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? saith Jehovah; I am satiated with burnt-offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; In the blood of bullocks and of lambs and of goats I have no delight.
When ye come to appear before me, Who hath required this of you, to tread my courts?
Bring no more false oblations! Incense is an abomination to me, The new moon also, and the sabbath, and the calling of the assembly; Iniquity and festivals I cannot endure.
Your new moons and your feasts my soul hateth; They are a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them.
When ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you; Yea, when ye multiply prayers, I will not hear: Your hands are full of blood!
Wash you; make you clean; Put away your evil doings from before mine eyes;
Cease to do evil; Learn to do well; Seek justice; relieve the oppressed; Defend the fatherless; plead for the widow!
Come, now, and let us argue together, saith Jehovah. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; Though they be red as crimson, they shall be like wool.
If ye be willing and obedient, Ye shall consume the good of the land.
But if ye refuse, and be rebellious, The sword shall consume you; For the mouth of Jehovah hath said it.
How is the faithful city become a harlot, She that was full of equity! Once justice dwelt in her, but now murderers!
Thy silver is become dross; Thy wine is adulterated with water.
Thy princes are faithless, companions of thieves; Every one of them loveth gifts, and seeketh rewards; They render not justice to the fatherless, And the cause of the widow cometh not before them.
Wherefore, thus saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel: Ha! I will ease me of mine adversaries, And avenge me of mine enemies.
And I will again turn my hand toward thee, And wholly purge away thy dross, And take away all thy alloy.
And I will restore thee judges, as at the first, And counsellors, as at the beginning. Then shalt thou be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city.
Through justice shall Zion be delivered, And her reformed sons through righteousness.
But destruction shall fall at once on the rebels and sinners; Yea, they that forsake Jehovah shall be consumed.
For ye shall be ashamed of the terebinths in which ye delighted; Ye shall blush for the gardens which ye loved;
And ye shall be as a terebinth-tree whose leaves are withered, And as a garden in which is no water.
The strong shall become tow, And his work a spark of fire; Both shall burn together, And none shall quench them.