In conclusion, Brothers, pray for us — pray that the Lord’s Message may spread rapidly, and be received everywhere with honour, as it was among you;
and that we may be preserved from wrong-headed and wicked men — for it is not every one who believes in Christ.
But the Lord will not fail you; he will give you strength, and guard you from Evil.
Yes, and the confidence that our union with the Lord enables us to place in you leads us to believe that you are doing, and will do, what we direct you.
May the Lord bring you to the love of God, and to the patience of the Christ.
We urge you, Brothers, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to avoid any Brother who is living an ill-ordered life, which is not in agreement with the teaching that you received from us.
For you know well that you ought to follow our example. When we were with you, our life was not ill-ordered,
nor did we eat any one’s bread without paying for it. Night and day, labouring and toiling, we used to work at our trades, so as not to be a burden upon any of you.
This was not because we had not a right to receive support, but our object was to give you a pattern for you to copy.
Indeed, when we were with you, what we urged upon you was — ‘If a man does not choose to work, then he shall not eat.’
We hear that there are among you people who are living ill-ordered lives, and who, instead of attending to their own business, are mere busy-bodies.
All such people we urge, and entreat, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to attend quietly to their business, and earn their own living.
You, Brothers, must not grow weary of doing what is right.
If any one disregards what we have said in this letter, mark that man and avoid his company, that he may feel ashamed.
Yet do not think of him as an enemy, but caution him as you would a Brother.
May the Lord, from whom all peace comes, himself give you his peace at all times and in all ways. May he be with you all.
I, Paul, add this greeting in my own handwriting. It is my signature to every letter. This is how I write.
May the blessing of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.