Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
Take thou Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil,—and the sin-bearing bullock, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened cakes;
and all the assembly, call thou together,—unto the entrance of the tent of meeting.
And Moses did, as Yahweh commanded him,—and the assembly was called together, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Then said Moses unto the assembly,—This is the thing, which Yahweh hath commanded to be done.
So Moses brought near Aaron and his sons,—and bathed them with water,
and put upon him the tunic and girded him with the band, and clothed him with the robe, and put upon him the ephod, and girded him with the curiously-woven band of the ephod, and bound it to him therewith;
and he put upon him the breastpiece,—and placed, in the breastpiece, the Lights and the Perfections;
and he put the turban upon his head,—and put upon the turban, on the forefront thereof the burnished plate of gold—the holy crown, As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the habitation and all that was therein,—and hallowed them;
and he sprinkled thereof upon the altar seven times,—and anointed the altar, and all the utensils thereof and the laver and its stand to hallow them
and he poured of the anointing oil, upon the head of Aaron,—and anointed him, to hallow him.
And Moses brought near the sons of Aaron and clothed them with tunics and girded them with bands, and wrapped round for them turbans,—As Yahweh commanded Moses.
Then was led near the sin-bearing bullock,—and Aaron and his sons leaned their hands upon the head of the sin-bearing bullock,
Then was it slain, and Moses took the blood and put [thereof] upon the horns of the altar round about, with his finger, and cleansed the altar from sin,—and the [remainder of the] blood, poured he forth at the base of the altar, and hallowed it putting a propitiatory-covering thereupon.
And he took all the fat that was on the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat,—and Moses made a perfume at the altar.
But the bullock itself, and its skin and its flesh and its dung, consumed he with fire, outside the camp,—As Yahweh commanded Moses,
Then was brought near the ram for the ascending-sacrifice,—and Aaron and his sons leaned their hands upon the head of the ram;
and it was slain,—and Moses dashed the blood against the altar round about;
and the ram itself, was cut up into its pieces,—and Moses made a perfume with the head and with the pieces and with the fat;
but the inwards and the legs, were bathed in water,—and Moses made a perfume with the whole ram at the altar, an ascending-sacrifice, it was—for a satisfying odour an altar-flame, it was unto Yahweh, As Yahweh commanded Moses.
Then was brought near the second ram, the ram of installation, and Aaron and his sons leaned their hands upon the head of the ram;
and it was slain, and Moses took of the blood thereof, and put upon the tip of Aaron’s right ear,—and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot.
Then were brought near the sons of Aaron, and Moses put of the blood upon the tip of their right ear, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot,—and Moses dashed the blood against the altar round about.
And he took the fat and the fat-tail, and all the fat that was on the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat,—and the right shoulder;
and out of the basket of unleavened-cakes that was before Yahweh, took he one round unleavened-cake and one round oil-cake, and one wafer, and put them upon the fat portions, and upon the right shoulder;
and placed the whole upon the opened palms of Aaron, and upon the opened palms of his sons,—and waved them as a wave-offering, before Yahweh.
And Moses took them from off their opened palms, and made a perfume at the altar upon the ascending-sacrifice,—an installation, they were for a satisfying odour, an altar-flame, it was unto Yahweh.
And Moses took the breast, and waved it as a wave-offering, before Yahweh,—of the ram of installation, unto Moses it belonged, as a portion, As Yahweh commanded Moses.
And Moses took of the anointing oil and of the blood that was upon the altar, and sprinkled upon Aaron, upon his garments, and upon his sons and upon the garments of his sons with him,—and hallowed Aaron, his garments, and his sons and the garments of his sons with him.
And Moses said unto Aaron and unto his sons Boil ye the flesh, at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and there, shall ye eat it, and the bread which is in the basket of installation,—as I have been commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons, shall eat it.
But, that which is left of the flesh, and of the bread, with fire, shall ye consume.
And from the entrance of the tent of meeting, shall ye not go forth for seven days, until the day that filleth up the days of your installation,—because for seven days, will he install you:
as hath been done this day, [so] hath Yahweh commanded to be done, to put a propitiatory-covering over you.
Even at the entrance of the tent of meeting, shall ye abide day and night for seven days, and shall keep the watch of Yahweh and shall not die,—for, so, am I commanded.
And Aaron and his sons did all the things which Yahweh had commanded through the mediation of Moses.