And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had a withered hand.
And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day, that they might accuse him.
So he said unto the man who had the withered hand, Stand forth.
And he said unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days or to do evil? to save the person or to kill them? But they were silent.
And looking round about on them with anger, being grieved for the blindness of their hearts, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched [it] out and his hand was restored whole as the other.
And as the Pharisees went forth, they took counsel with the Herodians against him, to kill him.
But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea
and from Jerusalem and from Idumaea and [from] beyond Jordan. And those who dwell around Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came unto him.
And he spoke to his disciples that a small ship should wait on him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him.
For he had healed many, insomuch that as many as had plagues pressed upon him to touch him.
And the unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him and cried out, saying, Thou art the Son of God.
And he straitly charged them that they should not make him known.
And he went up to the mountain and called unto himself whom he would, and they came unto him.
And he established twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach
and to have power to heal sicknesses and to cast out devils:
Simon, whom he gave the name Peter;
and James the [son] of Zebedee and John the brother of James, whom he surnamed them Boanerges, which is The sons of thunder;
and Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew and Matthew and Thomas and James the [son] of Alphaeus and Thaddaeus and Simon the Canaanite
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him; and they came home.
And the multitude came together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.
And when his [friends] and family heard [of it], they went out to lay hold on him; for they said, He is beside himself.
But the scribes who had come down from Jerusalem said that he had Beelzebub and that by the prince of the devils he cast out devils.
And he called them [unto him] and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
If [a] kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot remain.
And if [a] house is divided against itself, that house cannot remain.
And if Satan rises up against himself and is divided, he cannot remain, but has an end.
No man can enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods except he will first bind the strong man, and then he will spoil his house.
Verily I say unto you, All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men and whatever blasphemies with which they shall blaspheme,
but whosoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Spirit shall never have forgiveness but is obligated to eternal judgment,
because they said, He has an unclean spirit.
There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing without, sent unto him, calling him.
The multitude was sitting all around him, and they said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brothers [and sisters] seek thee without.
And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brethren?
And looking round about on those who sat about him, he said, Behold my mother and my brethren!
For whosoever doeth the will of God, the same is my brother and my sister and my mother.: