And Joseph came in and made known to Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brothers, and their flocks and their herds, and all which is theirs, have come in from the land of Canaan.
And, behold, they are in the land of Goshen. And he took five men from among his brothers and set them before Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to his brothers, What is your occupation? And they said to Pharaoh, Your servants are shepherds of flocks, both we and our fathers.
And they said to Pharaoh, We have come in to stay in the land, because there is no pasture for the flocks which belong to your servants, for the famine is heavy in the land of Canaan. And now please let your servants live in the land of Goshen.
And Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, Your father and your brothers have come in to you.
The land of Egypt is before you; cause your father and your brothers to live in the best of the land; let them live in the land of Goshen. And if you know men of ability are among them, make them chiefs of livestock over what is mine.
And Joseph brought in his father Jacob and placed him before Pharaoh. And Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to Jacob, How many are the days of the years of your life?
And Jacob said to Pharaoh, The days of the years of my camps are a hundred and thirty years. Few and evil have been the days of the years of my life and they have not reached the days of the years of the life of my fathers, in the days of their camps.
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.
And Joseph caused his father and his brothers to live, and gave them a place in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh commanded.
And Joseph nourished his father and his brothers, and all his father's house with bread for the mouth of the little ones.
And no bread was in the land, because the famine was exceedingly severe. And the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan were exhausted from the famine.
And Joseph gathered up all the silver found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan in return for the grain they were buying. And Joseph brought in the silver to the house of Pharaoh.
And the silver failed from the land of Egypt, and from the land of Canaan. And all Egypt came in to Joseph, saying, Give us bread; and, Why should we die before you? For the silver has failed.
And Joseph said, Give your livestock, and I will give to you for your livestock, if silver has failed.
And they brought in their livestock to Joseph. And Joseph gave bread to them for the horses, and for the livestock of the flocks, for the livestock of the herds, and for the asses. And he satisfied them with bread in that year for all their livestock
And that year ended, and they came in to him in the second year and said to him, We cannot hide from my lord that the silver and the livestock of the animals have failed, going to my lord. Nothing is left before my lord except our bodies and our lands.
Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread; and let us, we and our land, become slaves to Pharaoh. And give seed so that we may live and not die, and the land not be desolate.
And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, because each one in Egypt sold his field, because this famine was severe on them; and the land became Pharaoh's.
And as for the people, he caused them to pass over into the cities, and from the end of the border of Egypt to its other end.
Only he did not buy the land of the priests; for Pharaoh had appointed a portion for the priests, and they usually ate their appointed portion which Pharaoh gave to them. For this reason they did not sell their land.
And Joseph said to the people, Behold, I have bought you and your land today. Behold! Here is seed for you; and you sow the land.
And it shall be, as you gather you shall give a fifth part to Pharaoh; and four parts shall be yours, for the seed of the field and for your food, and for those in your houses, and for food for your little ones.
And they said, You have saved our lives; let us find favor in the eyes of my lord, and we will become slaves to Pharaoh.
And Joseph made it a law until this day on the land of Egypt, the fifth part is for Pharaoh; only the land of the priests being excepted; it did not become Pharaoh's.
And Israel lived in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen. And they owned in it, and were fruitful, and multiplied exceedingly
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. And the days of Jacob, the years of his life were a hundred and forty seven years.
And the days of Israel to die drew near. And he called to his son Joseph and said to him, Now if I have found favor in your eyes, please put your hand under my thigh, and do kindness and truth with me. Please do not bury me in Egypt;
but let me lie with my fathers, and carry me from Egypt, and bury me in their burying place. And he said, I will do according to your words.
And he said, Swear to me. And he swore to him. And Israel bowed on the head of the bed.