Paul and Timothy, bondmen of Jesus Christ, to all the sanctified in Jesus Christ who are at Philippi, with the guardians and helpers:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God upon every memory of you,
always in my every entreaty for all of you, making the entreaty with joy
for your participation in the good news from the first day until now.
Being confident of this same thing, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus.
Just as it is right for me to think this about all of you, because I have you in my heart, both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the good news, you all being partners with me of the grace.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in bowels of Jesus Christ.
And this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment
for you to examine the things that are significant. So that ye may be tested by sunlight and not stumbling toward the day of Christ,
having been filled with fruits of righteousness, through Jesus Christ, for glory and praise of God.
But I want you to know, brothers, that the things in respect to me have come more for the advancement of the good news,
in order for my bonds in Christ to become apparent in the whole Praetorium, and in all the others.
And more of the brothers in the Lord have been convinced by my bonds to be much more bold to speak the word fearlessly.
Actually some even preach the Christ because of envy and strife, and some also because of good-will.
Some indeed proclaim the Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing to bring affliction to my bonds.
But some from love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the good news.
What then? Except in every way, whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice, but also I will rejoice.
For I know that this will turn out to me for salvation (through your entreaty, and the support of the Spirit of Jesus Christ)
according to my eager expectation and hope that I will be shamed in nothing. But with all boldness, now as always, Christ will also be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death.
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
But if to live in flesh, this is fruit of labor to me, then what I will choose I know not.
And I am constrained by the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, being far better.
But to remain in the flesh is more necessary because of you.
And having been convinced of this, I know that I will remain, and will continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith.
So that your pride may abound in Christ Jesus in me because of my presence with you again.
Only be citizens worthy of the good news of the Christ, so that, whether having come and having seen you or being absent, I may hear things about you that ye stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving together for the faith of the good news.
And not being frightened in anything by those who oppose, which is indeed a sign of destruction to them, but to you of salvation, and this from God.
Because to you it was granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him,
having the same conflict such as ye saw in me, and now hear is in me.