Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the chosen who are sojourners of the Dispersion of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in sanctification of Spirit, for obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you, and peace be multiplied.
Blessed is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who begot us again according to his abundant mercy for a living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
for an inheritance imperishable, and undefiled, and unfading, reserved in heavens for you,
men being kept by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
In which ye greatly rejoice, although made sorrowful in various trials. Since it is now necessary for a little while,
so that the proof of your faith, much more precious than gold that perishes, and though proven by fire, may be found for praise and esteem and for glory at the revealing of Jesus Christ.
Whom, not having seen, ye love, in whom, not now seeing but believing, ye exult in inexpressible and glorified joy,
receiving back the outcome of your faith, the salvation of souls.
About which salvation the prophets sought and searched diligently. Men who prophesied about the grace for you,
searching for what, or what kind of time the Spirit of Christ in them indicated, predicting the sufferings in Christ, and the glories after these things.
To whom it was revealed, that they were serving not themselves, but you, those things that were now reported to you by those who preached good news to you in the Holy Spirit, which was sent forth from heaven, into which things agents longed to stoop to see.
Therefore having girded up the loins of your mind, being sober, hope entirely for the grace brought to you at the revealing of Jesus Christ.
As children of obedience, not fashioning yourselves to the former desires in your ignorance,
but according to the Holy Man, he who called you, ye yourselves also become holy in all conduct,
because it is written, Become ye holy, since I am holy.
And if ye call on a Father, him who judges impartially according to each man's work, live the time of your sojourn in fear.
Knowing that ye were redeemed from your vain behavior inherited from fathers, not with perishable silver or gold,
but by precious blood, as of a lamb unblemished and unspotted-of Christ,
who was indeed foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was manifested in the last times because of you:
men who, because of him, believe in God who raised him from the dead, and gave him glory, in order for your faith and hope to be in God;
men who have purified your souls in obedience of the truth through the Spirit for non-hypocritical brotherly love. Ye should love each other fervently from a pure heart,
begotten again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, through the word of God that lives and remains into the age.
Because all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as a flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower of it falls away,
but the word of the Lord endures into the age. And this is the word, the good news that was preached to you.