When the LORD your God shall bring you into the land where you go to possess it, and has cast out many nations before you, the Hittites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations greater and mightier than you,
and the LORD your God shall deliver them before you, you shall crush them, completely destroy them. You shall make no covenant with them nor show mercy to them.
Nor shall you make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to his son, nor shall you take his daughter to your son.
For they will turn away your son from following Me, so that they may serve other gods. So the anger of the LORD will be kindled against you and will destroy you suddenly.
But you shall deal with them in this way: you shall destroy their altars and break down their images, and cut down their groves and burn their graven images with fire.
For you are a holy people to the LORD your God. The LORD your God has chosen you to be a special people to Himself above all people that are upon the face of the earth.
The LORD did not set His love upon you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any people, for you were the fewest of all people.
But because the LORD loved you, and because He would keep the oath which He had sworn to your fathers, the LORD has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you out of the house of slaves, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.
Therefore, know that the LORD your God, He is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy with them that love Him and keep His commandments, to a thousand generations.
And he repays those who hate Him to their face, to destroy them. He will not be slow to repay him who hates Him. He will repay him to his face.
And you shall keep the commandments and the statutes and the judgments which I command you today, to do them.
And it shall be, because you listen to these judgments and keep and do them, the LORD your God shall keep to you the covenant and the mercy which He swore to your fathers.
And He will love you and bless you and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb, and the fruit of your land, your grain, and your wine, and your oil, the increase of your cattle, and the flocks of your sheep, in the land which He swore to your fathers to give you.
You shall be blessed above all people. There shall not be male or female barren among you or among your cattle.
And the LORD will take away from you all sickness, and will put none of the evil diseases of Egypt which you know upon you. But He will lay them upon all who hate you.
And you shall destroy all the people which the LORD your God shall deliver you. Your eye shall have no pity upon them, neither shall you serve their gods, for they will be a snare to you.
If you shall say in your heart, These nations are more than I; how can I throw them out?
You shall not be afraid of them, but shall well remember what the LORD your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt.
Remember the great temptations which your eyes saw, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the stretched-out arm by which the Lord your God brought you out. So shall the LORD your God do to all the people of whom you are afraid.
And the LORD your God will send the hornet among them, until the ones who are left, and who hide themselves from you, are destroyed.
You shall not be afraid of them, for the LORD your God is among you, a mighty and terrible God.
And the LORD your God will put out those nations before you by little and little. You may not destroy them at once, lest the beasts of the field increase upon you.
And the LORD your God shall deliver them to you, and shall destroy them with a mighty ruin until they are destroyed.
And He shall deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall destroy their name from under the heavens. No man shall be able to stand before you until you have destroyed them.
You shall burn the graven images of their gods with fire. You shall not desire the silver or gold on them, nor take it for yourself, so that you may not be snared in it. For it is an abomination to the LORD your God.
And you shall not bring an abomination into your house, lest you be a cursed thing like it. You shall utterly hate it, and you shall utterly despise it. For it is a cursed thing.