And it happened at the end of two years of days, Pharaoh dreamed. And behold, he stood by the River.
And behold! There came up out of the river seven cows beautiful of form, and fat of flesh. And they fed in the reeds!
And behold! Seven other cows came up after them out of the River, evil in appearance, and lean of flesh! And they stood by the other cows on the river bank.
And the evil-appearing and lean-fleshed cows ate up the seven beautifully formed and fat cows. So Pharaoh awoke.
And he slept and dreamed the second time. And behold! Seven ears of grain came up on one stock, fat and good!
And behold! Seven thin ears, and blasted with the east wind, sprang up after them!
And the seven thin ears devoured the seven fat and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream.
And it happened in the morning that his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men of it. And Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none who could interpret them to Pharaoh.
Then the chief cupbearer spoke to Pharaoh, saying, I remember my sin this day.
Pharaoh was angry with his servants, and put me under guard in the chief of the executioner's house, me and the chief baker.
And we dreamed a dream one night, he and I. We dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream.
And there was there with us a young man, a Hebrew, a slave to the chief of the executioners. And we told him, and he interpreted our dreams to us. He interpreted to each man according to his dream.
And it happened, as he interpreted to us, so it was. He restored me to my office, and he hanged him.
Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph. And they hurried him out of the dungeon. And he shaved and changed his clothing, and came in to Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and none can interpret it. And I have heard it about you, saying, you can understand a dream to interpret it.
And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, Not I. God shall give answer the welfare of Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, In my dream, behold! I stood upon the bank of the river.
And behold, there came up out of the river seven cows, beautiful in appearance and fat of flesh. And they fed in the reeds.
And behold, seven other cows came up after them, poor and evil of appearance, and lean of flesh, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness.
And the lean and the evil-appearing cows ate up the first seven fat cows.
And when they had eaten them up, it could not be seen that they had eaten them; but they were still evil of appearance, as at the beginning. And I awoke.
And I saw in my dream, and behold, seven ears came up in one stock, full and good.
And behold, seven ears, withered, thin, blasted by the east wind, sprang up after them.
And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears. And I spoke to the magicians, but there was none that could open it to me.
And Joseph said to Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one. God has shown Pharaoh what He is about to do.
The seven good cows are seven years. And the seven good ears are seven years. The dream is one.
And the seven thin and evil-appearing cows that came up after them are seven years. And the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine.
This is the thing which God has spoken to Pharaoh; what God is about to do, He shows to Pharaoh.
Behold, there are coming seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt.
And there shall arise after them seven years of famine. And all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine shall consume the land.
And the plenty shall not be known in the land because of the famine following; for it shall be very grievous.
And since the dream was repeated to Pharaoh twice, it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass.
Now therefore let Pharaoh look for a man who is discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt.
Let Pharaoh act, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years.
And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up grain under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities.
That food shall be for a store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt, so that the land does not perish through the famine.
And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants.
And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find any man like this, in whom the Spirit of God is?
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Since God has shown you all this, no one is as discreet and wise as you.
You shall be over my house, and all my people shall kiss the hand at your word. Only in the throne will I be greater than you.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph's hand. And he dressed him with fine linen robes, and put a gold chain around his neck.
And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had, and they cried before him, Bow the knee! And he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without a word from you, no man shall lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnath-paaneah. And he gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potipherah, priest of On, for his wife. And Joseph went out over the land of Egypt.
And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from before Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt.
And in the seven years of plenty, the earth brought forth by handfuls.
And he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and he put food in the cities. He put the food of the field which was around every city; he put it in among it.
And Joseph gathered grain like the sand of the sea, very much, until he quit numbering it; for it was without number.
And two sons were born to Joseph before the years of famine came, whom Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bore to him.
And Joseph called the name of the first-born Manasseh, saying, For God has made me forget all my toil and all my father's house.
And the name of the second he called Ephraim, saying, For God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.
And the seven years of plenty that was in the land of Egypt ended.
And the seven years of famine began to come, according as Joseph had said. And the famine was in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph. What he says to you, do.
And the famine was over all the face of the earth. And Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold to the Egyptians. And the famine was severe on the land of Egypt.
And all the earth came into Egypt to buy, to Joseph, because the famine was severe in all the earth.