“The kingdom of heaven is like the father of a family who went out in early morning to lead workers into his vineyard.
Then, having made an agreement with the workers for one denarius per day, he sent them into his vineyard.
And going out about the third hour, he saw others standing idle in the marketplace.
And he said to them, ‘You may go into my vineyard, too, and what I will give you will be just.’
So they went forth. But again, he went out about the sixth, and about the ninth hour, and he acted similarly.
Yet truly, about the eleventh hour, he went out and found others standing, and he said to them, ‘Why have you stood here idle all day?’
They say to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’ He said to them, ‘You also may go into my vineyard.’
And when evening had arrived, the lord of the vineyard said to his manager, ‘Call the workers and pay them their wages, beginning from the last, even to the first.’
And so, when those who had arrived about the eleventh hour came forward, each received a single denarius.
Then when the first ones also came forward, they considered that they would receive more. But they, too, received one denarius.
And upon receiving it, they murmured against the father of the family,
saying, ‘These last have worked for one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who worked bearing the weight and heat of the day.’
But responding to one of them, he said: ‘Friend, I caused you no injury. Did you not agree with me to one denarius?
Take what is yours and go. But it is my will to give to this last, just as to you.
And is it not lawful for me to do what I will? Or is your eye wicked because I am good?’
So then, the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. For many are called, but few are chosen.”
And Jesus, ascending to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples aside in private and said to them:
“Behold, we are ascending to Jerusalem, and the Son of man shall be handed over to the leaders of the priests and to the scribes. And they shall condemn him to death.
And they shall hand him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and scourged and crucified. And on the third day, he shall rise again.”
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee approached him, with her sons, adoring him, and petitioning something from him.
And he said to her, “What do you want?” She said to him, “Declare that these, my two sons, may sit, one at your right hand, and the other at your left, in your kingdom.”
But Jesus, responding, said: “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink from the chalice, from which I will drink?” They said to him, “We are able.”
He said to them: “From my chalice, indeed, you shall drink. But to sit at my right or my left is not mine to give to you, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father.”
And the ten, upon hearing this, became indignant with the two brothers.
But Jesus called them to himself and said: “You know that the first ones among the Gentiles are their rulers, and that those who are greater exercise power among them.
It shall not be this way among you. But whoever will want to be greater among you, let him be your minister.
And whoever will want to be first among you, he shall be your servant,
even as the Son of man has not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a redemption for many.”
And as they were departing from Jericho, a great crowd followed him.
And behold, two blind men, sitting by the way, heard that Jesus was passing by; and they cried out, saying, “Lord, Son of David, take pity on us.”
But the crowd rebuked them to be quiet. But they cried out all the more, saying, “Lord, Son of David, take pity on us.”
And Jesus stood still, and he called them and said, “What do you want, that I might do for you?”
They said to him, “Lord, that our eyes be opened.”
Then Jesus, taking pity on them, touched their eyes. And immediately they saw, and they followed him.