Then shall the kingdom of Heaven be likened to ten virgins, who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.
And five of them were wise, and five were foolish.
The foolish ones took their lamps, but took no oil with them.
But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.
And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom comes! Go out to meet him.
Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps.
And the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps have gone out.
But the wise answered, saying, No, lest there be not enough for us and you. But rather go to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.
And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came. And they who were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut.
Afterwards the other virgins came also, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
But he answered and said, Truly I say to you, I do not know you.
Therefore watch, for you do not know either the day or the hour in which the Son of man comes.
For it is as if a man going abroad called his own servants and gave them his goods.
And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to each according to his ability. And he went abroad at once.
And going he who had received the five talents traded with them, and made another five talents.
And likewise he who had received two, he also gained another two.
But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the earth and hid his lord's silver.
After a long time the lord of those servants came and took account with them.
And so he who had received five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, Lord, you delivered five talents to me. Behold, I have gained five talents above them.
His lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant! You have been faithful over a few things; I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.
He also who had received two talents came and said, Lord, you delivered two talents to me. Behold, I have gained two other talents above them.
His lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant! You have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.
And he who had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew that you were a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter.
And I was afraid and went and hid your talent in the earth. Lo, you have yours.
His lord answered and said to him, Evil and slothful servant! You knew that I reaped where I did not sow, and gathered where I did not scatter,
then you should have put my money to the exchangers, and coming I would have received my own with interest.
Therefore take the talent from him and give it to him who has ten talents.
For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he will abound. But from him who has not, even that which he has shall be taken away from him.
And throw the unprofitable servant into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
But when the Son of man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then He shall sit on the throne of His glory.
And all nations shall be gathered before Him. And He shall separate them from one another, as a shepherd divides the sheep from the goats.
And indeed He shall set the sheep on His right hand, but the goats off the left.
Then the King shall say to those on His right hand, Come, blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
For I was hungry, and you gave me food; I was thirsty, and you gave Me drink; I was a stranger, and you took Me in;
I was naked, and you clothed Me; I was sick, and you visited Me; I was in prison, and you came to Me.
Then the righteous shall answer Him, saying, Lord, when did we see You hungry, and fed You? Or thirsty, and gave You drink?
When did we see You a stranger, and took You in? Or naked, and clothed You?
Or when did we see You sick, or in prison, and came to You?
And the King shall answer and say to them, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these My brothers, you have done it to Me.
Then He also shall say to those on the left hand, Depart from Me, you cursed, into everlasting fire prepared for the Devil and his angels.
For I was hungry, and you gave Me no food; I was thirsty, and you gave Me no drink;
I was a stranger and you did not take Me in; I was naked, and you did not clothe Me; I was sick, and in prison, and you did not visit me.
Then they will also answer Him, saying, Lord, when did we see You hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to You?
Then He shall answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, Inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to Me.
And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into everlasting life.