And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel, and say to them, My oblation, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor to me, ye shall observe to offer to me in their due season.
And thou shall say to them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer to Jehovah: he-lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
The one lamb thou shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb thou shall offer at evening,
and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained on mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And the drink offering of it shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb. In the holy place thou shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to Jehovah.
And the other lamb thou shall offer at evening. As the meal offering of the morning, and as the drink offering of it, thou shall offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And on the sabbath day two he-lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering of it.
This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it.
And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering to Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish,
and three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with oil for each bullock, and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal offering, mingled with oil for the one ram,
and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal offering to every lamb, for a burnt offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
And one he-goat for a sin offering to Jehovah, it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it.
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Jehovah's Passover.
And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast; seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
In the first day shall be a holy convocation. Ye shall do no job work.
But ye shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt offering to Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven he-lambs a year old (they shall be to you without blemish),
and their meal offering, fine flour mingled with oil. Three tenth parts ye shall offer for a bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram,
a tenth part shall thou offer for every lamb of the seven lambs.
Also one he-goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you.
Ye shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
After this manner ye shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah. It shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it.
And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation. Ye shall do no job work.
Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye offer a new meal offering to Jehovah in your feast of weeks, ye shall have a holy convocation. Ye shall do no job work.
But ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor to Jehovah: two young bullocks, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old,
and their meal offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram,
a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs,
one he-goat, to make atonement for you.
Besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, ye shall offer them (they shall be to you without blemish), and their drink offerings.