I have been sought, not by those who asked. I have been found, not by those who sought Me. To a nation not calling on My name, I said, Behold Me! Behold Me!
I have spread out My hands all the day long to a rebellious people who walk in the way not good, after their own thoughts;
a people who continually provoke Me to My face; who sacrifice in gardens, and burn incense on the bricks;
who sit among the graves and lodge in the towers; who eat swine's flesh, and broth of unclean things in their pots;
who say, Keep to yourself! Do not come near me, for I am holier than you! These are a smoke in My nose, a fire burning all the day.
Behold! It is written before Me: I will not be silent, except I repay; yea, I will repay to their bosom,
our iniquities and the iniquities of your fathers together, says Jehovah; they that burned incense on the mountains, and have blasphemed Me on the hills. And I will measure their former work on their bosom.
So says Jehovah: As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one says, Do not destroy it, for a blessing is in it; so I will do for the sake of My servants, not to destroy the whole.
And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah one to inherit My mountains. And My chosen one shall inherit, and My servants shall live there.
And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks; and the valley of Achor a resting place of herds for My people who have sought Me.
But you are those who forsake Jehovah, who forget My holy mountain; who array a table for Fortune, and who fill mixed wine for Fate.
And I will number you to the sword; and you shall all bow down to the slaughter; because I called and you did not answer. I spoke, and you did not hear; and you did the evil in My eyes; and you chose that in which I had no pleasure.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, My servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry. Behold, My servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty. Behold, My servants shall rejoice, but you shall be ashamed.
Behold, My servants shall sing for joy of heart, but you shall cry from heartbreak, and howl from breaking of spirit.
And you shall leave your name for a curse to My chosen. And the Lord Jehovah shall kill you; and He shall call His servants by another name.
He who blesses himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth. And he who swears in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former distresses are forgotten; and because they are hidden from My eyes.
For, behold, I create new heavens and new earth. And the things before shall not be recalled, and they shall not go up on the heart.
However, be glad and rejoice forever in what I create. For, behold, I create in Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.
And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in My people. And the voice of weeping and the voice of crying shall no longer be heard in her.
There shall not still be an infant of days, or an old man that has not filled his days. For the youth shall die the son of a hundred years, but the sinner the son of a hundred years shall be accursed.
And they shall build houses and live in them ; and they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
They shall not build, and another live in them ; they shall not plant, and another eat. For like the days of the tree are the days of My people; and My elect shall grow old to the work of their hands.
They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for terror. For they are the seed of the beloved ones of Jehovah, and their offspring with them.
And it will be, before they call, I will answer. While they are speaking, then I will hear.
The wolf and the lamb shall feed as one; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And dust is the food of the snake. They shall not do evil nor destroy in all My holy mountain, says Jehovah.