Arise, O Ierusalem: be bright, for thy light is come, and the glorie of the Lord is risen vpon thee.
For beholde, darkenesse shall couer the earth, and grosse darkenesse the people: but the Lord shall arise vpon thee, and his glory shall be seene vpon thee.
And the Gentiles shall walke in thy light, and Kings at the brightnesse of thy rising vp.
Lift vp thine eyes round about, and beholde: all these are gathered, and come to thee: thy sonnes shall come from farre, and thy daughters shalbe nourished at thy side.
Then thou shalt see and shine: thine heart shall be astonied and enlarged, because the multitude of the sea shalbe conuerted vnto thee, and the riches of the Gentiles shall come vnto thee.
The multitude of camels shall couer thee: and the dromedaries of Midian and of Ephah: all they of Sheba shall come: they shall bring golde and incense, and shewe foorth the prayses of the Lord.
All the sheepe of Kedar shall be gathered vnto thee: the rammes of Nebaioth shall serue thee: they shall come vp to bee accepted vpon mine altar: and I will beautifie the house of my glorie.
Who are these that flee like a cloude, and as the doues to their windowes?
Surely the yles shall waite for mee, and the shippes of Tarshish, as at the beginning, that they may bring thy sonnes from farre, and their siluer, and their golde with them, vnto the Name of the Lord thy God, and to the Holy one of Israel, because he hath glorified thee.
And the sonnes of strangers shall builde vp thy walles, and their Kings shall minister vnto thee: for in my wrath I smote thee, but in my mercie I had compassion on thee.
Therefore thy gates shalbe open continually: neither day nor night shall they be shutte, that men may bring vnto thee the riches of the Gentiles, and that their Kings may be brought.
For the nation and the kingdome, that will not serue thee, shall perish: and those nations shalbe vtterly destroyed.
The glory of Lebanon shall come vnto thee, the firre tree, the elme and the boxe tree together, to beautifie the place of my Sanctuarie: for I will glorifie the place of my feete.
The sonnes also of them that afflicted thee, shall come and bowe vnto thee: and all they that despised thee, shall fall downe at the soles of thy feete: and they shall call thee, The citie of the Lord, Zion of the Holy one of Israel.
Where as thou hast bene forsaken and hated: so that no man went by thee, I will make thee an eternall glorie, and a ioye from generation to generation.
Thou shalt also sucke ye milke of the Gentiles, and shalt sucke the breastes of Kings: and thou shalt know, that I the Lord am thy Sauiour, and thy Redeemer, the mightie one of Iaakob.
For brasse will I bring golde, and for yron will I bring siluer, and for wood brasse, and for stones yron. I will also make thy gouernement peace, and thine exactours righteousnesse.
Violence shall no more be heard of in thy land, neither desolation, nor destruction within thy borders: but thou shalt call saluation, thy walles, and praise, thy gates.
Thou shalt haue no more sunne to shine by day, neither shall the brightnesse of the moone shine vnto thee: for the Lord shall be thine euerlasting light, and thy God, thy glorie.
Thy sunne shall neuer goe downe, neither shall thy moone be hid: for the Lord shalbe thine euerlasting light, and the dayes of thy sorowe shalbe ended.
Thy people also shalbe all righteous: they shall possesse the land for euer, the grasse of my planting shalbe the worke of mine handes, that I may be glorified.
A litle one shall become as a thousande, and a small one as a strong nation: I the Lord wil hasten it in due time.