This is the book of the generations of Adam: In the day that God created man. He made him in the likeness of God.
He created them male and female, and blessed them, and called their name Adam in the day when they were created.
And Adam lived one hundred and thirty years and fathered a son in his own likeness, according to his image, and called his name Seth.
And the days of Adam after he fathered Seth were eight hundred years. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years. And he died.
And Seth lived one hundred and five years, and fathered Enos.
And after he fathered Enos, Seth lived eight hundred and seven years. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years And he died.
And Enos lived ninety years and fathered Cainan.
After he fathered Cainan, Enos lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years. And he died.
And Cainan lived seventy years and fathered Mahalaleel.
And after he fathered Mahalaleel, Cainan lived eight hundred and forty years. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years. And he died.
And Mahalaleel lived sixty five years and fathered Jared.
And after he fathered Jared, Mahalaleel lived eight hundred and thirty years. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred and ninety five years. And he died.
And Jared lived one hundred and sixty two years and fathered Enoch.
And after he fathered Enoch, Jared lived eight hundred years. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty two years. And he died.
And Enoch lived sixty five years and fathered Methuselah.
And Enoch walked with God three hundred years after he fathered Methuselah. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty five years.
And Enoch walked with God; then he was not; for God took him.
And Methuselah lived one hundred and eighty seven years and fathered Lamech.
And after he fathered Lamech, Methuselah lived seven hundred and eighty two years. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty nine years; and he died.
And Lamech lived one hundred and eighty two years and fathered a son.
And he called his name Noah, saying, This one shall comfort us concerning our work and the toil of our hands because of the ground which the Lord has cursed.
And after he fathered Noah, Lamech lived five hundred and ninety five years. And he fathered sons and daughters.
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy seven years. And he died.
And Noah was five hundred years old. And Noah fathered Shem, Ham, and Japheth.