And these are the inheritances which the sons of Israel took in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the sons of Israel, distributed to them,
by the lot of their inheritance, as Jehovah commanded by Moses, for the nine tribes, and for the half-tribe.
For Moses had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half-tribe beyond the Jordan, but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them.
For the sons of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. And they gave no portion to the Levites in the land except cities to dwell in with the suburbs of it for their cattle and for their substance.
As Jehovah commanded Moses, so the sons of Israel did, and they divided the land.
Then the sons of Judah drew near to Joshua in Gilgal. And Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, Thou know the thing that Jehovah spoke to Moses the man of God concerning me and concerning thee in Kadesh-barnea.
I was forty years old when Moses the servant of Jehovah sent me from Kadesh-barnea to spy out the land, and I brought him word again as it was in my heart.
Nevertheless my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly followed Jehovah my God.
And Moses swore on that day, saying, Surely the land in which thy foot has trodden shall be an inheritance to thee and to thy sons forever because thou have wholly followed Jehovah my God.
And now, behold, Jehovah has kept me alive, as he spoke, these forty-five years, from the time that Jehovah spoke this word to Moses, while Israel walked in the wilderness. And now, lo, I am this day eighty-five years old.
As yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war, and to go out and to come in.
Now therefore give me this hill-country of which Jehovah spoke in that day. For thou heard in that day how the Anakim were there, and cities great and fortified. It may be that Jehovah will be with me, and I shall drive them out, as Jehovah spoke.
And Joshua blessed him, and he gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance.
Therefore Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day because he wholly followed Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Now the name of Hebron was formerly Kiriath-arba. Arba was the greatest man among the Anakim. And the land had rest from war.