What then is the advantage of the Jew? Or what is the benefit of circumcision?
Much every way. First, because they were indeed entrusted with the oracles of God.
For what if some did not believe? Will their unbelief make the assurance of God ineffective?
May it not happen! But let it come to pass God is true, but every man a liar, as it is written, That thou may ever be justified in thy words, and may prevail when thou are criticized.
But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what will we say? Is God unrighteous inflicting wrath? (I speak according to a man.)
May it not happen! Otherwise how will God judge the world?
For if by my lie, the truth of God abounded to his glory, why am I also still judged as sinful,
and not (as we are slandered, and as some affirm us to say) that we may do evil so that good things may come (whose condemnation is just)?
What then? Are we better? Not at all. For we already charged both Jews and Greeks to all be under sin,
as it is written, There is no righteous man, not even one.
There is no man who understands. There is no man who seeks God.
All turned away. Together they became useless. There is not a man who does goodness; there is not as much as one.
Their throat is an open grave. With their tongues they deceive. The poison of asps is under their lips,
whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.
Their feet are swift to shed blood.
Destruction and misery are in their ways,
and the way of peace they have not known.
There is no fear of God before their eyes.
Now we know that as many things as the law says, it says to those in the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become accountable to God.
Because from works of law no flesh will be made right before him, for through law is knowledge of sin.
But now a righteousness of God has been manifested independent of law, being witnessed by the law and the prophets.
And the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ is for all and upon all those who believe, for there is no distinction.
For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God,
being made righteous freely by his grace, through the redemption in Christ Jesus,
whom God set forth an expiatory sacrifice through faith in his blood, for proof of his justice, because of the passing over of the sins that have formerly occurred
(in the forbearance of God), for proof of his justice at the present time, for him to be righteous, and who makes the man from Jesus' faith righteous.
Where then is the boasting? It is excluded. By what law, of works? No, but by a law of faith.
We therefore consider a man to be made righteous by faith independent of works of law.
Or is God of Jews only and not also of Gentiles? Yes, of Gentiles also,
since God is one, who will make the man of circumcision righteous from faith, and the man of uncircumcision through faith.
Do we then make law void through faith? May it not happen! Instead, we establish law.