Contend, O LORD! with them that contend with me! Fight against them that fight against me!
Take hold of shield and buckler, And stand up for my help!
Draw forth the spear and the axe against my persecutors; Say to me, "I am thy salvation."
May they be confounded and put to shame, who seek my life; May they be turned back with disgrace, who devise my hurt!
May they be like dust before the wind; May the angel of the LORD drive them!
May their way be dark and slippery, And may the angel of the LORD pursue them!
For without cause they have laid for me a snare; Without cause they have digged for me a pit.
May unforeseen destruction come upon them! May the snare which they have laid lay hold on themselves, And may they fall into destruction!
Then shall my soul rejoice in the LORD; It shall exult in his protection.
All my bones shall say, Who, O LORD! is like thee, Who dost rescue the afflicted from the oppressor, The afflicted and destitute from the spoiler?
False witnesses have risen up; They charge me with that which has not entered my mind.
They repay me evil for good; They cause bereavement to my soul.
And yet I, during their sickness, clothed myself with sackcloth, And afflicted myself with fasting; And my prayer was turned to my bosom.
I behaved myself as if he had been my friend or brother; I bowed down in sadness, as one mourning for his mother.
But at my fall they rejoice, and gather themselves together; Revilers whom I know not assemble themselves against me; They tear me without ceasing.
With base men who mock for their bread, They gnash at me with their teeth.
How long, O LORD! wilt thou look on? O rescue my life from the destruction they plot for me; My precious life from these young lions!
I will thank thee in the great assembly! Before a numerous people I will praise thee.
Let not them that are my enemies wrongfully triumph over me; Let them not wink with the eye, who hate me without cause!
For they speak not peace; They devise deceit against them that are quiet in the land.
Yea, they open their mouths wide against me; They say, "Aha, aha! our eyes seeth it."
Thou seest it, O LORD! be not silent! O LORD! be not far from me!
Arouse thyself; awake for my defence! My God and my Lord, awake to my cause!
Judge me according to thy righteousness, O Jehovah, my God! Let them not triumph over me!
Let them not say in their hearts, "Aha! we have our wish!" Let them not say, "We have swallowed him up!"
May they all be confounded and brought to shame, Who rejoice at my calamity! May they be clothed with ignominy and disgrace, Who exalt themselves against me!
Let them shout for joy, and be glad, Who favor my righteous cause; Let them ever say, "The LORD be praised, Who delighteth in the prosperity of his servant!"
So shall my tongue speak of thy righteousness, And daily repeat thy praise.