I saw the Lord standing by the altar. And He said, Strike the capital of the door, and the thresholds will shake; and break them on the head of all of them. And I will kill the last of them with the sword. Not one of them who flees will flee, and not a fugitive of them will escape.
And if they dig through into Sheol, from there My hand will take them. And if they go up to the heavens, from there I will bring them down.
And if they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out from there. And if they hide from My eyes in the bottom of the sea, from there I will command the serpent, and he will bite them.
And if they go into exile before their enemies, from there I will command the sword, and it will kill them. And I will set My eyes on them for evil, and not for good.
And the Lord Jehovah of hosts is He who touches the earth so that it melts, and all dwelling in it shall mourn. And all of it will rise up like the Nile, and sink down like the Nile of Egypt.
It is He who builds His staircase in the heavens, and He has founded His binding heavens on the earth; He who calls for the seawater and pours them out on the face of the earth, Jehovah is His name.
Are you not like the sons of the Ethiopians to Me, O sons of Israel? declares Jehovah. Have I not brought Israel up out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?
Behold, the eyes of the Lord Jehovah are on the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from the face of the earth; only that I will not completely destroy the house of Jacob, declares Jehovah.
For, behold, I will command, and I will shake the house of Israel among all the nations, as one shakes with a sieve; yet not a grain shall fall to the ground.
All the sinners of My people shall die by the sword, those who say, The evil shall not draw near or confront us.
In that day I will raise up the booth of David that has fallen, and I will wall up its breaks. And I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as the days of old;
so that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations on whom My name is called, declares Jehovah who is doing this.
Behold, the days are coming, declares Jehovah, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him who draws along seed. And the mountains shall drop new must, and all the hills will be dissolved.
And I will again bring the captivity of My people Israel. And they shall build the waste cities, and live in them . And they shall plant vineyards, and drink the wine of them. They shall also make gardens, and eat the fruit of them.
And I will plant them on their land, and they shall never again be pulled up out of their land which I have given to them, says Jehovah your God.