Hear this word, cows of Bashan who are in the mountain of Samaria, who press down the helpless, who crush the poor, who say to their husbands, Bring in, that we may drink.
The Lord Jehovah has sworn by His holiness that the days are coming that He will lift you up with meat hooks, and the last of you with fishhooks.
And you shall go out at the breaches, each woman before her. And you shall throw down the high place, declares Jehovah.
Come into Bethel and transgress; multiply transgressing at Gilgal. And bring our sacrifices for the morning, your tithes for three days;
and offer a sacrifice of a thanksgiving offering that is leavened. And cry out, call out the voluntary offerings! For so you love to do , sons of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in your places; and you have not returned to Me, declares Jehovah.
And I have also withheld the rain from you when it was yet three months to the harvest. And I caused rain to fall on one city, and caused it not to rain on another city. One piece was rained on, and the piece where it did not rain was dried up.
So two or three cities staggered to one city in order to drink water, but they were not satisfied; yet you have not returned to Me, declares Jehovah.
I have struck you with blasting and mildew. The multitude of your gardens and your vineyards, and your figs, and your olives are devoured by the creeping locust; yet you have not returned to Me, declares Jehovah.
I have sent a plague among you in the way of Egypt; I have killed your young men with the sword and your horses with captivity. And I have made the stench of your camps to come up even into your nostrils; yet you have not returned to Me, declares Jehovah.
I have overthrown among you, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were like a firebrand plucked out of the burning; yet you have not returned to Me, declares Jehovah.
So I will do this to you, O Israel: Because of this I will do to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel.
For, behold, He who forms mountains and creates the wind and declares to man what His thought is , He who makes the dawn darkness, and treads on the high places of the earth, Jehovah, the God of Hosts, is His name.