CHRIST then having suffered for us in the flesh, be ye also in mind armed for the same conflict: for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sinning;
that he might not spend the remaining space of life in the flesh after human passions, but the divine will.
For the time past of life is enough for us to have wrought the will of the heathen, when we walked in all impurities, lewd appetites, excess of wine, revels, drinking-bouts, and abominable idolatries;
wherein they think it a strange thing, that you are not running with them into the same gulph of profligacy, spreading every scandalous report of you:
who shall give an account to him, who holds himself ready to judge the living and the dead.
For to this end was the gospel preached to those that are dead, that they might be judged indeed in the flesh according to the will of men, but live in spirit according to the will of God.
But the end of all things is near: be ye therefore sober-minded, and vigilant in prayers.
But above all things have fervent love towards each other: for love will conceal a multitude of faults.
Exercise hospitality one towards another without grudgings.
Let every one, according as he hath received a gift, minister it to others, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
If any man speak, let it be agreeably to the oracles of God; if any man act as a deacon, let it be from the strength which God supplieth: that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory and might for ever and ever. Amen.
Beloved, be not amazed at the fiery trial among you which is to bring you to the test, as though something strange happened to you;
but as ye share in the sufferings of Christ rejoice, that at the revelation of his glory also ye may hail him with exultations.
If ye suffer reproach for the name of Christ, blessed are ye; for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: by them indeed he is blasphemed, but by you he is glorified.
Let no one of you then suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evil-doer, or a meddler in other persons’ business.
But if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him give glory to God on this very account.
For now is the time when judgment is commencing at the house of God; and if it begin with us, what will be the end of those who obey not the gospel of God?
And if the righteous man is hardly saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?
Wherefore let those who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls to him in well-doing as to the faithful Creator.