Observe the month Abib, and keep the Passover to Jehovah your God. For in the month of Abib Jehovah your God brought you out of Egypt by night.
And you shall sacrifice a Passover to Jehovah your God of the flock, and of the herd, in the place which He shall choose to cause His name to dwell there.
You shall eat no leavened bread with it. You shall eat unleavened bread with it seven days, even the bread of affliction. For you came out of the land of Egypt in haste, so that you may remember the day that you came out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life.
And there shall be no leaven seen with you in your borders seven days; nor shall any of the flesh which you sacrificed the first day at evening remain all night until the morning.
You may not sacrifice the Passover offering inside any of your gates, which Jehovah your God gives you.
But at the place which He shall choose to cause His name to dwell there, you shall sacrifice the Passover offering at evening, at the going of the sun, at the time when you came out of Egypt.
And you shall cook and eat in the place which Jehovah your God shall choose. And in the morning you shall turn and go into your tents.
You shall eat unleavened bread six days, and on the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to Jehovah your God. You shall do no work.
You shall number to yourself seven weeks. When the sickle begins to reap in the standing grain, you shall begin to number seven weeks.
And you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to Jehovah your God according to the measure of the freewill offering of your hand, which you shall give according as Jehovah your God blesses you.
And you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God, you and your son, and your daughter, and your male slave, and your slave-girl, and the Levite that is inside your gates, and the alien, and the fatherless, and the widow that  are among you, in the place which Jehovah your God shall choose to cause His name to dwell there.
And you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt; and you shall take heed to do these statutes.
You shall keep the Feast of Tabernacles seven days after you have gathered in from your threshingfloor, and from your winepress.
And you shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son, and your daughter, and your male slave, and your slave-girl, and the Levite, and the alien, and the fatherless, and the widow that are inside your gates.
You shall keep a solemn feast seven days to Jehovah your God in the place which Jehovah shall choose; for Jehovah your God shall bless you in all your produce, and in every work of your hands, and you shall be altogether joyful.
Three times in a year shall all your males appear before Jehovah your God in the place which He shall choose: In the Feast of Unleavened Bread , and in the Feast of Weeks and in the Feast of Tabernacles. And they shall not appear before Jehovah empty,
but each with his gift of his hand, according to the blessing of Jehovah your God, which He has given you.
You shall appoint judges and officers for yourself in all your gates which Jehovah your God gives you, tribe by tribe. And they shall judge the people with righteous judgment.
You shall not pervert judgment. You shall not regard faces, nor shall you take a bribe; for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise, and perverts the words of the righteous.
You shall follow perfect justice, that you may live and possess the land which Jehovah your God is giving you.
You shall not set up for yourself pillars of any trees, which you make for yourself near the altar of Jehovah your God.
And you shall not raise up for yourself any standing image, which Jehovah your God detests.