AND to the angel of the church in Sardis write, These things saith he that hath the seven spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know thy works, and that thou hast a name, as though thou wert alive, yet art dead.
Be vigilant and strengthen the things which remain, which are ready to die; for I have not found thy works complete before God.
Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and observe, and repent. If then thou art not found watching, I will come upon thee as a thief, and thou shalt in no wise know at what hour I will come upon thee.
Thou hast a few names even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white robes, for they are worthy.
He that overcometh, this man shall be clothed in white robes; and I will in no wise blot his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write, These things saith the Holy One, he that is true, who hath the key of David, who openeth, and none shutteth, and shutteth, and no man openeth.
I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it; because thou hast but little strength, yet hast thou kept my word, and hast not denied my name.
Behold, I give thee out of Satan’s synagogue those who say they are Jews, yet they are not, but do lie. Lo! I will make them that they shall come and prostrate themselves at thy feet, and they shall know that I have loved thee.
Because thou hast keep the word of my patience, I also will preserve thee from the hour of temptation, which is coming upon the whole habitable globe to try the dwellers upon earth.
Behold, I come quickly: hold fast that thou hast, that no man take thy crown.
He that overcometh, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall never more go out from thence: and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God, and my own new name.
He that hath an ear to hear, let him ear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
And to the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write, These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the origin of the creation of God;
I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot:
I wish thou wert cold or hot. So because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit thee out of my mouth:
because thou sayest, I am rich, and wallow in wealth, and have no want unsupplied; yet thou knowest not that thou art wretched, and pitiable, and poor, and blind, and naked.
I advise thee to buy of me gold purified by the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white robes, that thou mayest be completely clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness may not appear; and anoint thine eyes with a collyrium, that thou mayest see.
As many as I love, I rebuke and correct: be zealous then, and repent.
Lo! I stand at the door, and knock: if any person hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and I will sup with him, and he with me.
He that overcometh, I will give to him to sit on my throne, as I also have overcome, and have sat down with my Father on his throne.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.