In that day, shall be sung this song, in the land of Judah,—A strong city, have we! Salvation, will he set for walls and rampart,
Open ye the gates,—That there may enter in—a righteous nation preserving fidelity.
A purpose sustained, thou wilt guard, [saying], Prosper! Prosper! Because in thee, hath he been led to trust.
Trust ye in Yahweh, unto futurity,—For, in Yah, Yahweh, is a rock of ages.
For he hath brought down the inhabitants of the height the city exalted,—He layeth it low, Layeth it low even to the ground, Levelleth it, even to the dust:
The foot trampleth it,—The feet of the lowly, The steps of the weak,
The path of a righteous man, is, even,—O Upright One! the track of a righteous man, thou makest level.
Surely in the path of thy regulations, O Yahweh, we waited for thee,—Unto thy Name and unto thy Memorial, was there a longing of soul:
With my soul, longed I for thee in the night, Yea with my spirit within me, I kept on searching for thee,—For, when thy regulations [extend] to the earth, The inhabitants of the world will have learned, righteousness.
Let favour be shewed to the lawless, he hath not learned righteousness, In a land of honest dealings, he acteth perversely,—And seeth not the splendour of Yahweh.
O Yahweh though thy hand be lifted up,—yet do they not see, Would they might see—and turn pale at a people’s zeal,—Surely, the fire of thine enemies, must consume them!
O Yahweh, thou wilt ensure prosperity for us,—For even all our works, hast thou wrought for us,
O Yahweh, our God! Lords other than thee, have owned us,—By thyself alone, will we call upon thy Name.
The dead, come not to life again, The shades, do not arise,—Therefore, thou hast visited and destroyed them, And caused to perish every memorial of them.
Thou hast increased the nation, O Yahweh, Thou hast increased the nation thou hast gotten thyself glory, Thou hast extended far, all the ends of the land.
O Yahweh! in distress, they sought thee,—They poured out a whispered prayer, when thy chastening was upon them.
Like as a woman with child—Draweth near to giving birth, Is in pain, Crieth out in her pangs So, were we before thee, O Yahweh;—
We were with child—We were in pain, As it were we brought forth wind,—Salvation, we could not accomplish for the earth, Neither were born the inhabitants of the world.
Thy dead, shall come to life again, My dead body, they shall arise,—Awake and shout for joy, ye that dwell in the dust For, a dew of light, is thy dew, And, earth, to the shades shall give birth.
Come my people, enter into thy chambers, And shut thy doors behind thee,—Hide thee as it were a little moment Till the indignation pass over.
For lo! Yahweh, is coming forth out of his place, To visit the iniquity of earth’s inhabitant upon him,—Therefore shall the earth unveil her shed-blood, And throw a covering, no longer over her slain.