To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. A Song. Let God arise, let His enemies be scattered; also let those who hate Him flee before Him.
As smoke is driven away, You drive them away; as wax melts before the fire, let the wicked perish in the presence of God.
But the righteous are glad; they rejoice before God. Yes, let them exceedingly rejoice.
Sing to God, sing praises to His name; praise Him who rides on the heavens by His name JEHOVAH, and rejoice before Him.
In His holy dwelling God is the father of the fatherless, and the judge of the widows.
God causes the lonely to live at home; He brings out those who are bound with chains; but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.
O God, when You marched before Your people, when You walked through the wilderness; Selah.
The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God; Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
You, O God, sent a plentiful rain, by which You upheld Your inheritance when it was weary.
Your flock has dwelt in it; You, O God, have prepared in Your goodness for the poor.
The Lord gave the word; the bearers of it were a great army.
Kings of armies fled away; and she who stayed at home divided the plunder.
When you lie among the sheepfolds, the wings of a dove are covered with silver, and its pinions with the shimmer of gold.
When the Almighty scatters kings in it, it snows on Salmon.
The mountain of Bashan is God's mountain; the Bashan range is a mountain of peaks.
Why do you gaze in envy, O mountain range, at the mountain God has chosen for His resting place? Yes, the LORD will dwell in it forever.
The chariots of God are myriads, thousands of thousands; the Lord is among them, in Sinai, in the holy place.
You have gone up on high; You have led captivity captive; You have received gifts for men, yes, for the rebellious also, that You might dwell among them, O Jehovah God.
Blessed is the LORD; He daily bears burdens for us, the God of our salvation. Selah.
Our God is the God of salvation; and to the LORD are the issues of death.
Yea, God shall wound the head of His enemies, and the hairy crown of him who walks on in his guilt.
The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan; I will bring back My people from the depths of the sea;
so that your foot may be dipped in the blood of your enemies, and the tongue of your dogs in it.
They have seen Your goings, O God; the goings of my God, my King, in the holy place.
The singers went before, then the musicians came; among them were the virgins playing the timbrels.
O bless God in the congregations, the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.
There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the leaders of Judah and their multitude, the leaders of Zebulun, and the leaders of Naphtali.
Your God has commanded your strength; O God, be strong in that which You have worked out for us.
Because of Your temple in Jerusalem, kings shall bring a present to You.
Rebuke the wild beasts of the reeds, the herd of bulls, with the calves of the peoples, trampling down with the pieces of silver. He scatters the people who delight in war.
Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall stretch out her hands to God.
Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises to the Lord. Selah.
To Him who rides on the heavens of heavens of old; lo, He sends out His voice, a mighty voice.
Give strength to God over Israel; His majesty and His strength in the skies.
O God, You are overwhelming out of Your holy places; the God of Israel is He who gives strength and powers to the people. Blessed is God.