The lawless, fleeth when no man pursueth, but, the righteous, like a lion, are confident.
For the transgressions of a land, many are the rulers thereof, but, under an intelligent and discerning man, stability is prolonged.
A poor man, who oppresseth the helpless, [is like] a rain beating down, leaving no food.
They who forsake instruction, praise one who is lawless, while, they who keep instruction, are at strife with them.
Wicked men, consider not justice, but, they who seek Yahweh, consider everything.
Better a poor man walking in his integrity, than one who is crooked—turning two ways, though, he, be rich.
He that keepeth instruction, is a son with discernment, but, a companion of squanderers, bringeth shame to his father.
He that increaseth his substance by interest and profit, for one ready to favour the poor, doth gather it.
He that turneth away his ear from hearing instruction, even his prayer, is an abomination.
He that misguideth the upright into a hurtful way! into his own pit, he himself, shall fall, but, men of integrity, shall inherit good.
Wise in his own eyes, is the man that is rich, but, a poor man of discernment, searcheth him out.
In the exulting of the righteous, there is great glorying, but, when the lawless arise, a man must be sought for.
He that covereth his transgressions, shall not prosper, but, he that confesseth and forsaketh, shall find compassion.
How happy the man who is ever circumspect, whereas, he that hardeneth his heart, shall fall into calamity.
A growling lion, and a ranging bear, is a lawless ruler, over a poor people.
A leader, may lack intelligence, yet abound in oppressions, The hater of greed, shall lengthen out days.
A man oppressed with a person’s blood, unto a pit, shall flee, let them not hold him back.
He that walketh with integrity, shall be saved, but, he that is crooked, turning two ways, shall fall in one.
He that tilleth his ground, shall have plenty of bread, but, he that pursueth empty-heads, shall have plenty of poverty.
A man of fidelity, aboundeth in blessings, but, one hasting to be rich, shall not be held innocent.
To take note of faces [in judgment], is not good, and, for a bit of bread, a man will transgress.
A man, hasting to be rich, hath an evil eye, and knoweth not when want may overtake him.
He that reproveth a man, shall, afterwards, find more, favour, than he that useth a flattering tongue.
He that robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression, companion, is he to one who wasteth.
The ambitious in soul, stirreth up strife, but, he that trusteth in Yahweh, shall be enriched.
He that trusteth his own heart, the same, is a dullard, but, he that walketh wisely, the same, shall be delivered.
One who giveth to the poor, shall have no want, but, he that hideth his eyes, shall receive many a curse.
When lawless men rise, a common man will hide himself, but, when they perish, righteous men multiply.