At that time Jehovah said to me, Cut out for yourself two tablets of stone like the first, and come up to Me, into the mountain, and you shall make for yourself an ark of wood;
and I shall write on the tablets the words which were on the first tablets, which you have broken, and you shall place them in the ark.
And I made an ark of acacia wood, and cut out two tablets of stone like the first, and went up into the mountain; and the two tablets were in my hand.
And He wrote on the tablets according to the writing, the Ten Commandments which Jehovah had spoken to you in the mountain, out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly. And Jehovah gave them to me,
and I turned and came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the ark which I had made. And they are there, as Jehovah commanded me.
And the sons of Israel pulled up stakes from Beeroth of the sons of Jaakan to Mosera; Aaron died there and he was buried there; and his son Eleazar was acting as priest in his place.
From there they pulled up to Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbath, a land of water brooks.
At that time Jehovah separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant before Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah and to minister to Him, and to bless in His name, until today.
Therefore, Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; Jehovah is his inheritance, according as Jehovah your God spoke to him.
And I stayed in the mountain forty days and forty nights, as at the first. And Jehovah listened to me that time also; Jehovah would not destroy you.
And Jehovah said to me Rise up! Go before the people, causing them to set forward, that they may go in and possess the land which I swore to their fathers, to give it to them.
And now, Israel, what has Jehovah your God asked of you, except to fear Jehovah your God, to walk in all His ways, and to love Him, and to serve Jehovah your God with all your heart, and with all your soul;
to keep the commandments of Jehovah, and His statutes which I am commanding you today, for your good.
Behold, the heavens and the heavens of the heavens, the earth and all in it, belong to Jehovah your God.
Only, Jehovah has delighted in your fathers, to love them; and He chose their seed after them, on you out of all the peoples, as today.
And you shall circumcise the foreskin of your heart, and you shall not harden your neck any more.
For Jehovah your God, He is the God of gods, and the Lord of lords; the great, the mighty, the fearful God who does not lift up faces, nor take a bribe.
He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the alien, to give to him food and clothing.
And you shall love the alien, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt.
You shall fear Jehovah your God; you shall serve Him; and you shall cleave to Him; and you shall swear by His name.
He shall be your praise, and He shall be your God, who has done for you these great and fearful things which your eyes have seen.
Your fathers went down to Egypt with seventy persons; and now Jehovah your God has made you as the stars of the heavens for multitude.