Then having laid aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil words,
as newborn babes desire the pure soul-nourishing milk, that you may grow by it;
if indeed you "tasted" "that the Lord is good;" LXX-Psa. 33:9; MT-Psa. 34:8
to whom having drawn near, a living Stone, indeed having been rejected by men, but chosen by God, precious;
you also as living stones are being built a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
Because of this, it is also contained in the Scripture: "Behold," I lay in Zion" an elect, "precious Stone," "a Corner-foundation;" "and the one believing in Him shall never in any way be ashamed." Isa. 28:16
Then to you who believe belongs the preciousness. But to disobeying ones, He is the "Stone which those building rejected; this One became the Head-of-the-corner," Psa. 118:22
and a Stone-of-stumbling, and a Rock-of-offense" to those disobeying, stumbling at the word, to which they were also appointed. Isa. 8:14
But you are "an elect race," "a royal priesthood," "a holy nation," "a people for possession," so that "you may openly speak of the virtues" of the One who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light;  LXX-Ex. 23:22; MT-Ex. 19:5, 6
you who then were "not a people, but now are the people" of God; "the one not pitied then but now pitied." Hos. 1:6, 9 2:1, 23
Beloved, I exhort you as temporary residents and pilgrims to abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul;
having your behavior good among the nations, in that which they speak against you as evildoers; by observing your good works, they may glorify God in a day of visitation.
Then be in obedience to every ordinance of men because of the Lord; whether to a king, as being supreme;
or to governors, as through Him having indeed been sent for vengeance on evildoers, but praise on well doers,
because so is the will of God, doing good to silence the ignorance of foolish men;
as free, and not having freedom as a cover of evil, but as slaves of God;
honor all, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king.
Servants, be obedient to your masters in all fear, not only to those good and forbearing, but also to the perverse ones .
For this is a grace, if because of conscience toward God anyone bears grief, suffering unjustly.
For what glory is it if you patiently endure while sinning and being buffeted? But if you are suffering while doing good, and patiently endure, this is a grace from God.
For you were called to this, for even Christ suffered on our behalf, leaving behind an example for us, that you should follow His steps;
"who did not sin, nor was guile found in His mouth;" Isa. 53:9
who, having been reviled, did not revile in return; suffering, He did not threaten, but gave Himself up to Him who was judging righteously;
who "Himself bore in His body our sins" onto the tree; that dying to sins, we might live to righteousness; of whom, "by His wound, you were healed.
For you were straying sheep," Isa. 53:4 -6 but now you are turned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.