Since times are not hidden from the Almighty, why do those who know Him not see His days?
They remove the landmarks; they seize flocks and feed them.
They drive away the ass of the fatherless; they take the widow's ox for a pledge.
They turn the needy out of the way; the poor of the earth hide themselves together.
Behold, like wild asses in the desert, they go forth to their work, rising early for a prey. The wilderness yields food for them and for their children.
They reap his fodder in the field; and they gather the grapes of the wicked.
They lodge the naked without clothing, and give no covering in the cold.
They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for lack of shelter.
They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge from the poor.
They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they take away the sheaves from the hungry.
They press out oil between their walls; they tread their winepresses, and still suffer thirst.
Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded cries for help; yet God does not charge foolishness.
They are of those who rebel against the light; they know not His ways, nor stay in His paths.
The murderer rising with the light kills the poor and needy, and in the night he is a thief.
And the eye of the adulterer waits for the twilight, saying, No eye will see me; and he puts a covering on his face.
In the dark they dig through houses which they had marked for themselves in the daytime; they do not know the light.
For the morning is to them like the shadow of death; for they know the terrors of the shadow of death.
He is swift on the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth; he does not behold the way of the vineyards.
Drought and heat eat up the snow waters; so does the grave those who have sinned.
The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be remembered no more; and injustice shall be broken like a tree.
He ill-treats the women who bear no children; and does no good to the widow.
He also draws the mighty with his power; he rises up, and no one is sure of life.
He gives safety to him, and he rests on it; yet His eyes are on their ways.
They are lifted up for a little while, but are gone and brought low; they are gathered in like all others, and are cut off like the heads of the ears of grain.
And if it is not so, who will make me a liar, and make my speech worth nothing?