What then will we say Abraham, our father according to flesh, to have found?
For if Abraham was made righteous from works, he has a boast, but not before God.
For what does the scripture say? And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him for righteousness.
Now to the man being employed, the wage is not reckoned according to grace, but according to obligation.
But to the man not being employed, but who believes in him who makes the impious man righteous, his faith is reckoned for righteousness.
Just as David also tells the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness independent of works,
saying, Blessed are those whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.
Blessed is a man to whom the Lord does, no, not impute sin.
Is this blessedness therefore upon men of circumcision, or also upon men of uncircumcision? For we say, Faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness.
How then was it reckoned? When he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
And he received the sign of circumcision, as a seal of the righteousness of his faith during uncircumcision, for him to be father of all those who believe during uncircumcision (for righteousness to also be imputed to them),
and father of those of circumcision, to those not only of circumcision, but also to those who march in the steps of faith-of that during the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.
For the promise to Abraham or to his seed, for him to be heir of the world, was not through law, but through a righteousness of faith.
For if those from law are heirs, faith has been made void, and the promise has been made useless.
For the law works wrath. For where there is no law, neither is there transgression.
Because of this it is from faith, so that it is according to grace, in order for the promise to be sure to all the seed, not only to the seed from the law, but also to the seed from the faith of Abraham, who is father of us all
(as it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations), before him whom he believed, of God who makes the dead alive, and who calls things not existing, as existing.
Who, against hope, believed in hope, in order for him to become father of many nations according to that which was spoken, So thy seed will be.
And not being weak in faith he did not regard his body, which was now deadened (being about a hundred years old), and the deadness of Sarah's womb.
And he did not waver in unbelief at the promise of God, but became strong in faith, giving glory to God,
and being fully assured that what he promised, he was able also to perform.
And therefore it was reckoned to him for righteousness.
Now it was not written because of him alone that it was imputed to him,
but also because of us to whom it is going to be imputed, to those who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
who was delivered up for our offenses, and was raised up for our justification.