And after six days, Jesus took Peter and James, and his brother John, and brought them up into a high mountain apart.
And He was transfigured before them, and His face shone like the sun, and His clothing became white as the light.
And, behold! Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with Him.
And answering, Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If You will, let us make three tents here, one for You, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
While he was yet speaking, behold, a radiant cloud overshadowed them. And, behold, a voice out of the cloud saying, This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I delight; hear Him. Psa. 2:7; Gen. 22:2; Isa. 42:1; Deut. 18:15
And hearing, the disciples fell on their face and were greatly terrified.
And coming near, Jesus touched them and said, Rise up, and do not be terrified.
And lifting up their eyes, they did not see anyone except Jesus alone.
And as they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, Tell the vision to no one until the Son of man is raised from the dead.
And His disciples asked Him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?
And answering, Jesus said to them, Elijah indeed comes first and shall restore all things.
But I say to you, Elijah has already come, and they did not know him, but did to him whatever they desired. So also the Son of man is about to suffer by them.
Then the disciples understood that He spoke to them about John the Baptist.
And they coming to the crowd, a man came near to Him, kneeling down to Him, and saying,
Lord, pity my son. For he is moonstruck and suffers miserably. For he often falls into the fire, and often into the water.
And I brought him to Your disciples, and they were not able to heal him.
And answering, Jesus said, O faithless and perverted generation! How long will I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to Me.
And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out from him; and the boy was healed from that hour.
Then coming up to Jesus privately, the disciples said, Why were we not able to cast him out?
And Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief. For truly I say to you, If you have faith as a grain of mustard, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there! And it will move. And nothing shall be impossible to you.
But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.
And while they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.
And they will kill Him, and on the third day He will be raised. And they grieved exceedingly.
And they coming into Capernaum, those receiving the didrachmas came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the didrachmas?
He said, Yes. And when he entered into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth receive custom or tribute? From their sons or from strangers?
Peter said to Him, From strangers. Jesus said to him, Then truly the sons are free.
But that we may not offend them, going to the sea, throw in a hook and take the first fish coming up. And opening its mouth, you will find a stater. Taking that, give to them for you and Me.