In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, on the first of the month, came the word of Yahweh, by the hand of Haggai the prophet, unto Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, pasha of Judah, and unto Jehoshua son of Jehozadak the high priest, saying:
Thus, speaketh Yahweh of hosts, saying,—This people, have said, Not yet hath come the time for the house of Yahweh to be built.
Therefore hath come the word of Yahweh by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying:
Is it a time that, ye yourselves, should be dwelling in your own paneled houses? and, this house, be in ruins?
Now, therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts,—Apply your heart unto your own experience—
Ye have sown much, but have brought in little, have eaten, and not been filled, have drunk, and not been satisfied with drink, have clothed you, and none hath been warm,—and, he that hath hired himself out, hath put his wages into a bag with holes.
Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts,—Apply your heart to your own experience:
Ascend the mountain—and bring in wood and build the house,—that I may be pleased therewith and get myself glory, saith Yahweh.
When ye looked for much, then lo! it came to little, when ye brought it home, then I did blow into it,— Because of what? Demandeth Yahweh of hosts, Because of my house, the which is in ruins, while ye keep running every man to his own house.
Wherefore—on your account, have the heavens, held back, dew,— and, the earth, held back her fruit;
And I have called for drought, upon the land and upon the mountains, and upon the corn and upon the new wine and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground, bringeth forth,—and upon man, and upon beast, and upon all the labour of the hands.
Then hearkened Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and Jehoshua son of Jehozadak the high priest, and all the remnant of the people, unto the voice of Yahweh their God, and unto the words of Haggai the prophet, as Yahweh their God, had sent him,—and the people, stood in awe, before Yahweh.
Then spake Haggai the messenger of Yahweh, in the message of Yahweh, to the people saying,—I, am with you, Declareth Yahweh.
Thus did Yahweh, stir up—the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, pasha of Judah, and the spirit of Jehoshua son of Jehozadak the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people,—and they came in and did service in the house of Yahweh of hosts their God:
on the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month,—in the second year of Darius the king.