And King Salomon was King ouer all Israel.
And these were his princes, Azariah the sonne of Zadok the Priest,
Elihoreph and Ahiah the sonnes of Shisha scribes, Iehoshaphat the sonne of Ahilud, the recorder,
And Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada was ouer the hoste, and Zadok and Abiathar Priests,
And Azariah the sonne of Nathan was ouer the officers, and Zabud the sonne of Nathan Priest was the Kings friend,
And Ahishar was ouer the houshold: and Adoniram the sonne of Abda was ouer the tribute.
And Salomon had twelue officers ouer all Israel, which prouided vitailes for the King and his housholde: eche man had a moneth in the yeere to prouide vitailes.
And these are their names: the sonne of Hur in mount Ephraim:
The sonne of Dekar in Makaz, and in Shaalbim and Beth-shemesh, and Elon and Beth-hanan:
The sonne of Hesed in Aruboth, to whom perteined Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher:
The sonne of Abinadab in all the region of Dor, which had Taphath the daughter of Salomon to wife.
Baana the sonne of Ahilud in Taanach, and Megiddo, and in all Beth-shean, which is by Zartanah beneath Izreel, from Beth-shean to Abelmeholah, eue til beyond ouer against Iokmeam:
The sonne of Geber in Ramoth Gilead, and his were the townes of Iair, the sonne of Manasseh, which are in Gilead, and vnder him was the region of Argob, which is in Bashan: threescore great cities with walles and barres of brasse.
Ahinadab the sonne of Iddo had to Mahanaim:
Ahimaaz in Naphtali, and he tooke Basmath the daughter of Salomon to wife:
Baanah the sonne of Hushai in Asher and in Aloth:
Iehoshaphat the sonne of Paruah in Issachar.
Shimei the sonne of Elah in Beniamin:
Geber the sonne of Vri in the countrey of Gilead, the land of Sihon King of the Amorites, and of Og King of Bashan, and was officer alone in the land.
Iudah and Israel were many, as the sand of the sea in number, eating, drinking, and making merry.
And Salomon reigned ouer all kingdomes, from the Riuer vnto the lande of the Philistims, and vnto the border of Egypt, and they brought presents, and serued Salomon all the dayes of his life.
And Salomons vitailes for one day were thirtie measures of fine floure, and threescore measures of meale:
Ten fat oxen, and twentie oxen of the pastures, and an hundreth sheepe, beside hartes, and buckes, and bugles, and fat foule.
For he ruled in all the region on the other side of the Riuer, from Tiphsah euen vnto Azzah, ouer all the Kings on the other side the Riuer: and he had peace round about him on euery side.
And Iudah and Israel dwelt without feare, euery man vnder his vine, and vnder his fig tree, from Dan, euen to Beer-sheba, all the dayes of Salomon.
And Salomon had fourtie thousande stalles of horses for his charets, and twelue thousand horsemen.
And these officers prouided vitaile for king Salomon, and for all that came to King Salomons table, euery man his moneth, and they suffred to lacke nothing.
Barley also and strawe for the horses and mules brought they vnto the place where the officers were, euery man according to his charge.
And God gaue Salomon wisdome and vnderstanding exceeding much, and a large heart, euen as the sand that is on the sea shore,
And Salomons wisdome excelled the wisedome of all the children of the East and all the wisedome of Egypt.
For he was wiser then any man: yea, then were Ethan the Ezrahite, the Heman, then Chalcol, then Darda the sonnes of Mahol: and he was famous throughout all nations round about.
And Salomon spake three thousand prouerbs: and his songs were a thousand and fiue.
And he spake of trees, from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon, euen vnto the hyssope that springeth out of the wall: he spake also of beasts, and of foules, and of creeping thinges, and of fishes.
And there came of all people to heare the wisedome of Salomon, from all Kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisedome.