The burden of Tyre: Howl, ships of Tarshish! For it is ruined, without house, without entrance. It is revealed to them from the land of Kittim.
Be still, inhabitants of the coast, trader of Sidon crossing the sea; they have filled you.
And by great waters, the seed of Sihor and the harvest of the river Nile was her revenue; and she a mart of nations.
Be ashamed, Sidon, for the sea has spoken, the strength of the sea, saying, I have not travailed, nor brought forth, I have not nourished young men nor raised up virgins.
As the report comes to Egypt, so they shall be grieved at the report of Tyre.
Pass over Tarshish; howl, people of the coast!
Is this your exulting city from days of her old age? Her own feet carry it far away to stay.
Who has purposed this against Tyre, the crowning city, whose merchants are rulers, whose traders are the weighty of the earth?
Jehovah of Hosts has purposed it, to stain the pride of all glory, to bring all the honored of the earth into contempt.
Pass through your land as the Nile, O daughter of Tarshish; there is no more strength.
He stretched His hand over the sea; He shook kingdoms. Jehovah has made a decree against the merchant city , to destroy its forts.
And He said, You shall rejoice no more, oppressed one, virgin daughter of Sidon. Arise, cross over to Cyprus, even there is no rest to you.
Behold, the land of the Chaldeans! This people did not exist! Assyria founded it for those who live in the desert. They set up their siege towers; they stripped its palaces. They made it a ruin.
Howl, ships of Tarshish! For your fortress is ruined.
And it shall be in that day that Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king. At the end of seventy years, it will be as the song of a harlot to Tyre.
Take a harp; go about the city, O forgotten harlot. Do well to play; make many songs, that you may be remembered.
And it will be, after the end of seventy years, Jehovah will visit Tyre; and she shall return to her hire, and will fornicate with all the kingdoms of the earth, on the face of the earth.
And her goods and her wages shall be holiness to Jehovah; it shall not be hoarded nor stored; for her goods shall be for those who dwell before Jehovah, to eat enough, and for a choice covering.