But, brethren, you have no need that I write to you of the times and seasons;
for you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night:
for when they shall say, Peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them, as the pains of birth upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape.
But you, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief.
You are all sons of light, and sons of day: we are not of night, nor of darkness.
Therefore, let us not sleep, as do others, but let us watch and be sober.
For those who sleep, sleep in the night; and those who are drunken, are drunken in the night.
But let us, who are of the day, be sober, having on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet, the hope of salvation:
for God has not appointed us to wrath, but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we might live together with him.
Wherefore, exhort one another, and edify one another, as you also do.
Now we beseech you, brethren, to have regard for those who labor among you, and preside over you in the Lord, and admonish you,
and that you esteem them very highly in love on account of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
We exhort you, brethren, admonish the unruly, comfort the faint-hearted, earnestly care for the weak-minded, be of a long-suffering disposition toward all.
See that no one render evil for evil to any, but always pursue that which is good toward one another and toward all.
Rejoice always;
pray without ceasing;
in every thing give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.
Quench not the Spirit.
Despise not prophesyings.
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.
Abstain from every appearance of evil.
Now the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly; and may your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is he that calls you; and he will do what he has promised.
Brethren, pray for us.
Salute all the brethren with a holy kiss.
I adjure you by the Lord, that this letter be read to all the holy brethren.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.