And when it came to pass to launch us, after being drawn away from them, after going a straight course, we came to Cos, and the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
And having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, having gotten on, we launched.
And having sighted Cyprus, and having left it behind on the left side, we sailed to Syria and came down to Tyre, for there the ship was unloading the merchandise.
And having found disciples we remained there seven days, who said to Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem.
And when it came to pass for us to finish the days, having gone forth, we were departing, all accompanying us, with women and children, as far as outside the city. And having knelt on the beach we prayed.
And having bid farewell to each other, we went up in the ship, and those men returned to their own things.
And when we finished the voyage from Tyre, we came to Ptolemais. And having greeted the brothers, we remained with them one day.
And on the morrow, after going forth, those around Paul came to Caesarea. And having entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, being of the seven, we dwelt with him.
Now four virgin daughters who prophesied were with this man.
And as we remained more days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
And having come to us, and having taken Paul's belt, having bound both his feet and hands, he said, The Holy Spirit says these things: Thus the Jews in Jerusalem will bind the man whose belt this is, and will deliver him into the hands of Gentiles.
And when we heard these things, both we and those local men urged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
And Paul answered, What are ye doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I fare ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
And since he was not persuaded, we were quiet, having said, May the will of the Lord happen.
And after these days, having made preparation, we went up to Jerusalem.
And also the disciples from Caesarea went together with us, bringing a certain Mnason, a Cypriot, an old disciple with whom we would lodge.
And when we came to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly.
And on the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present.
And having greeted them, he reported one by one what God did among the Gentiles through his ministry.
And when the men heard, they glorified God, having said to him, Thou see, brother, how many thousands there are of the Jews who have believed, and they are all zealots of the law.
And they were informed about thee, that thou teach all the Jews throughout the nations desertion from Moses, telling them not to circumcise the children nor to walk by the customs.
What is it therefore? Certainly the multitude needs to get together, for they will hear that thou have come.
Therefore do this that we say to thee. Four men are with us who have a vow on themselves.
Having taken these, be purified with them. And pay expenses for them, so that they may shave the head. And all may know, that things of which they have been informed about thee, are nothing, but thou thyself also walk orderly, keeping the law.
And about the Gentiles who have believed, we sent word, having decided for them to keep no such thing, except for them to guard against what is sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from fornication.
Then Paul, having taken the men on the following day, having been purified with them, entered into the temple, declaring the fulfillment of the days of purification, until the offering was offered for each one of them.
And when the seven days were about to be completed, the Jews from Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people and threw hands on him,
crying out, Men, Israelites, help. This is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people, and the law, and this place. And besides he also brought Greeks into the temple, and has defiled this holy place.
For they were men who saw Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed that Paul brought into the temple.
And the whole city was moved, and there developed a running together of the people. And having taken Paul they dragged him out of the temple, and straightaway the doors were shut.
And while seeking to kill him, a report went up to the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem has been stirred up.
And immediately after taking soldiers and centurions, he ran down to them. And they, when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, stopped beating Paul.
And the chief captain having come near, he seized him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains. And he inquired whoever he may be, and what it is he has been doing.
And some among the crowd shouted out one thing, some another. And not being able to know the certainty because of the uproar, he commanded him to be carried into the fort.
And it came to pass when on the steps (it happened for him to be carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd,
for the mass of the people followed, crying out, Away with him),
and as Paul was going to be brought into the fort, he says to the chief captain, Is it permitted for me to speak to thee? And he said, Thou know Greek?
Then thou are not the Egyptian who revolted before these days, and who led out into the wilderness the four thousand men of the Assassins?
But Paul said, I am really a Jewish man of Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city. And I beg thee, allow me to speak to the people.
And having permitted him, Paul, having stood on the steps, motioned his hand to the people. And when a great hush developed, he called out in the Hebrew language, saying,