And these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And sons were born to them after the flood.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
And Gomer's sons were Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
And Javan's sons were Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
The coasts of the nations were divided by these in their lands each by his tongue, by their families, in their nations.
And Ham's sons were Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
And the sons of Cush were Seba and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And Raamah's sons were Sheba and Dedan.
And Cush fathered Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one in the land.
He was a mighty hunter before Jehovah; so it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before Jehovah.
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
From that land he went forth to Assyria and built Nineveh, and Rehoboth the city, and Calah,
and Resen between Nineveh and Calah, which is a great city.
And Mizraim fathered Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
and Pathrusim, and Casluhim, who from whom came the Philistines and Caphtorim.
And Canaan fathered his firstborn Sidon, and Heth,
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
and the Arvadite and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. And afterward the families of the Canaanites were dispersed.
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as you come to Gerar, as far as Gaza, as you go in towards Sodom and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even to Lasha.
These were the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their countries, in their nations.
And to Shem was born, even to him, the father of all the sons of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder.
The sons of Shem were Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram.
And Aram's sons were Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
And Arpachshad fathered Salah; and Salah fathered Eber.
And two sons were born to Eber; the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
And Joktan fathered Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. These all were the sons of Joktan.
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as you go to Sephar, an eastern mountain.
These were the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, according to their nations.
These were the families of the sons of Noah, by their generations, in their nations. And from these the nations were divided in the earth after the flood.