And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, that this word came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
Take thee a roll of a book, and write in it all the words that I have spoken to thee against Israel, and against Judah, and against all the nations, from the day I spoke to thee, from the days of Josiah, even to this day.
It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do to them, that they may return every man from his evil way, that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.
Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah. And Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of Jehovah, which he had spoken to him, upon a roll of a book.
And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up. I cannot go into the house of Jehovah.
Therefore go thou, and read in the roll, which thou have written from my mouth, the words of Jehovah in the ears of the people in Jehovah's house upon the fast-day. And also thou shall read them in the ears of all Judah who come out of their cities.
It may be they will present their supplication before Jehovah, and will return each one from his evil way, for great is the anger and the wrath that Jehovah has pronounced against this people.
And Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of Jehovah in Jehovah's house.
Now it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, that all the people in Jerusalem, and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem, proclaimed a fast before Jehovah.
Then Baruch read in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of Jehovah, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan, the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the new gate of Jehovah's house, in the ears of all the people.
And when Micaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard out of the book all the words of Jehovah,
he went down into the king's house, into the scribe's chamber. And, lo, all the rulers were sitting there: Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the rulers.
Then Micaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.
Therefore all the rulers sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, Take in thy hand the roll from which thou have read in the ears of the people, and come. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and came to them.
And they said to him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears. So Baruch read it in their ears.
Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, they turned in fear one toward another, and said to Baruch, We will surely tell the king of all these words.
And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, How did thou write all these words at his mouth?
Then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these words to me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book.
Then the rulers said to Baruch, Go, hide thee, thou and Jeremiah, and let no man know where ye are.
And they went in to the king into the court, but they had laid up the roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and they told all the words in the ears of the king.
So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the roll, and he took it out of the chamber of Elishama the scribe. And Jehudi read it in the ears of the king, and in the ears of all the rulers who stood beside the king.
Now the king was sitting in the winter-house in the ninth month, and the brazier was burning before him.
And it came to pass, when Jehudi had read three or four leaves, that the king cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the roll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier.
And they were not afraid, nor tore their garments, neither the king, nor any of his servants who heard all these words.
Moreover Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had made intercession to the king that he would not burn the roll, but he would not hear them.
And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king's son, and Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to take Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet, but Jehovah hid them.
Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the roll, and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,
Take thee again another roll, and write in it all the former words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah has burned.
And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah thou shall say, Thus says Jehovah: Thou have burned this roll, saying, Why have thou written in it, saying, The king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy this land, and shall cause to cease from there man and beast?
Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David. And his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.
And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity. And I will bring upon them, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them, but they did not hearken.
Then Jeremiah took another roll, and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote in it from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire, and there were added besides to them many like words.