A Psalm of Asaph.  The God of gods, the Lord has spoken, and he has called the earth, from the rising of the sun even to its setting,
from Zion, the brilliance of his beauty.
God will arrive manifestly. Our God also will not keep silence. A fire will flare up in his sight, and a mighty tempest will surround him.
He will call to heaven from above, and to the earth, to discern his people.
Gather his holy ones to him, you who order his covenant above sacrifices.
And the heavens will announce his justice. For God is the judge.
Listen, my people, and I will speak. Listen, Israel, and I will testify for you. I am God, your God.
I will not reprove you for your sacrifices. Moreover, your holocausts are ever in my sight.
I will not accept calves from your house, nor he-goats from your flocks.
For all the wild beasts of the forest are mine: the cattle on the hills and the oxen.
I know all the flying things of the air, and the beauty of the field is with me.
If I should be hungry, I would not tell you: for the whole world is mine, and all its plentitude.
Shall I gnaw on the flesh of bulls? Or would I drink the blood of goats?
Offer to God the sacrifice of praise, and pay your vows to the Most High.
And call upon me in the day of tribulation. I will rescue you, and you will honor me.
But to the sinner, God has said: Why do you discourse on my justices, and take up my covenant through your mouth?
Truly, you have hated discipline, and you have cast my sermons behind you.
If you saw a thief, you ran with him, and you have placed your portion with adulterers.
Your mouth has abounded with malice, and your tongue has concocted deceits.
Sitting, you spoke against your brother, and you set up a scandal against your mother’s son.
These things you have done, and I was silent. You thought, unjustly, that I ought to be like you. But I will reprove you, and I will set myself against your face.
Understand these things, you who forget God; lest at any time, he might quickly take you away, and there would be no one to rescue you.
The sacrifice of praise will honor me. And in that place is the journey by which I will reveal to him the salvation of God.