And Jehovah visited Sarah as he had said, and Jehovah did to Sarah as he had spoken.
And Sarah conceived, and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.
And Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him, Isaac.
And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
And Abraham was a hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born to him.
And Sarah said, God has made me to laugh. Everyone who hears will laugh with me.
And she said, Who would have said to Abraham, that Sarah should give sons suck? For I have borne him a son in his old age.
And the child grew, and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking.
Therefore she said to Abraham, Cast out this handmaid and her son. For the son of this handmaid shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac.
And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight on account of his son.
And God said to Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy handmaid. In all that Sarah says to thee, hearken to her voice. For in Isaac shall thy seed be called.
And also I will make a nation of the son of the handmaid, because he is thy seed.
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, and the child, and sent her away. And she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.
And the water in the bottle was spent, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.
And she went, and sat herself down opposite him a good way off, as it were a bowshot. For she said, Let me not look upon the death of the child. And she sat opposite him, and lifted up her voice, and wept.
And God heard the voice of the lad. And the agent of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said to her, What troubles thee, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is.
Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thy hand, for I will make him a great nation.
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. And she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.
And God was with the lad, and he grew. And he dwelt in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer.
And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran. And his mother took for him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phicol the captain of his army spoke to Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou do.
Now therefore swear to me here by God that thou will not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son. But according to the kindness that I have done to thee, thou shall do to me, and to the land in which thou have sojourned.
And Abraham said, I will swear.
And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of the well of water which Abimelech's servants had taken away violently.
And Abimelech said, I know not who has done this thing, neither did thou tell me, nor yet did I hear of it, but today.
And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them to Abimelech. And the two made a covenant.
And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
And Abimelech said to Abraham, What do these seven ewe lambs mean which thou have set by themselves?
And he said, These seven ewe lambs thou shall take from my hand, that it may be a witness to me, that I have dug this well.
Therefore he called that place Beersheba, because there they swore both of them.
So they made a covenant at Beersheba. And Abimelech rose up, and Phicol the captain of his army, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.
And Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba, and there called on the name of Jehovah, the Everlasting God.
And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days.