And the sons of Israel, even the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zin in the first month; and the people remained in Kadesh. And Miriam died there, and was buried there.
And there was no water for the congregation, and they were gathered against Moses, and against Aaron.
And the people contended with Moses, and spoke, saying, Oh that we had died when our brothers died before Jehovah!
And, why have you brought the assembly of Jehovah to this wilderness to die there, we and our animals?
And, why have you brought us up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place, not a place of seed, nor fig, nor vine, nor pomegranate; and there is no water to drink?
And Moses and Aaron went in from the eyes of the assembly, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation; and fell on their faces. And the glory of Jehovah appeared to them.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Take the rod, and assemble the congregation, you and your brother Aaron. And speak to the rock before their eyes. And it shall give forth its water; and you shall bring water out of the rock to them; so you shall water the congregation and their animals.
And Moses took the rod from before Jehovah, as He commanded him.
And Moses and Aaron assembled the congregation before the rock. And he said to them, Hear now, you rebels, shall we bring forth water to you out of this rock?
And Moses lifted up his hand and smote the rock with his rod twice; and much water came out; and the congregation and their animals drank.
And Jehovah said to Moses and Aaron, Because you did not believe in Me, to sanctify Me before the eyes of the sons of Israel, therefore you shall not bring in this congregation to the land which I have given to them.
These are the Waters of Strife, because the sons of Israel contended with Jehovah, and He was sanctified upon them.
And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom: So says your brother Israel, You surely have known all the travail which has found us;
that our fathers went down to Egypt, and we lived in Egypt many days, and the Egyptians did evil to us and to our fathers.
And we cried to Jehovah, and He heard our voice, and sent a messenger, and is bringing us out of Egypt; and, behold, we are in Kadesh, a city on the edge of your border.
Please let us pass over, through your land; we shall not pass over through a field, nor through a vineyard, nor shall we drink water of a well; we shall go along the king's highway. We will not turn aside to the right hand or to the left, until we have passed your border.
And Edom said to him, You shall not pass through me, lest I come out with the sword against you.
And the sons of Israel said to him, We shall go in the highway; and if we drink of your waters, our cattle and us, then I shall give their price. Only let me pass through on my feet; there shall be no harm.
And he said, You shall not pass through. And Edom came out against him with many people, and with a strong hand.
And Edom refused to allow Israel to pass over through his border. And Israel turned away from him.
And the sons of Israel, the whole congregation, pulled up stakes from Kadesh and came in to Mount Hor.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses and Aaron in Mount Hor, on the edge of the land of Edom, saying,
Aaron shall be gathered to his people, for he shall not go into the land which I have given to the sons of Israel, because you rebelled against My mouth at the Waters of Strife.
Take Aaron and his son Eleazar, and cause them to go up to Mount Hor;
and strip Aaron of his garments, and you shall put them on his son Eleazar. And Aaron shall be gathered and shall die there.
And Moses did as Jehovah had commanded; and they went up to Mount Hor before the eyes of all the congregation.
And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and clothed his son Eleazar with them. And Aaron died there on the top of the mountain. And Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain.
And all the congregation saw that Aaron had died, and they mourned Aaron thirty days, all the house of Israel.