The prophecy of the word of Jehovah, concerning Israel, by Malachi.
I have loved you, saith Jehovah. But ye say, "Wherein hast thou loved us?" Was not Esau Jacob’s brother, saith Jehovah? Yet I loved Jacob,
And Esau I hated; And I made his mountains a desolation, And his inheritance to be habitations of the desert.
Although Edom say, "We are ruined, Yet will we build again the desolate places." Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: They may build, but I will throw down; And men shall call them "The impious land, The people against whom Jehovah hath indignation forever."
And your eyes shall see it, and ye shall say, "Great is Jehovah beyond the borders of Israel!"
A son honoreth his father, And a servant his master; If I, then, be a father, where is mine honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear? Saith Jehovah of hosts to you, ye priests that despise my name. Ye say, "Wherein do we despise thy name?"
Ye bring polluted food to mine altar. And ye say, "Wherein do we pollute thee?" In that ye say, "The table of Jehovah is contemptible." For when ye bring the blind for sacrifice, [ye say,] "It is not evil."
And when ye offer the lame and the sick, [Ye say,] "It is not evil." Offer it, then, to thy governor; Will he be pleased with thee, Or have regard to thee? Saith Jehovah of hosts.
And now, I pray you, beseech God to be gracious unto us! Since such things are done by you, Will he have regard to you, Saith Jehovah of hosts?
O that some one of you would close the doors, That ye might not kindle the fire upon mine altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, saith Jehovah of hosts, Neither will I accept an offering at your hand.
For from the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same My name shall be great among the nations. And in every place shall incense be offered to my name, And a pure offering; For my name shall be great among the nations, Saith Jehovah of hosts.
But ye profane it, In that ye say, "The table of Jehovah is polluted, And what is offered thereon, even its food, is contemptible."
Ye say also, "Behold, what weariness!" And ye snuff at it, Saith Jehovah of hosts; And ye bring that which is plundered, and lame, and sick, And present it for an offering; Shall I accept it at your hand? Saith Jehovah.
Cursed be the deceiver, Who hath in his flock a male, And yet voweth and sacrificeth to Jehovah that which is marred; For I am a great king, saith Jehovah of hosts; And my name is terrible among the nations.