But of the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need that I write to you.
For you yourselves know accurately that the day of the Lord comes like a thief in the night.
For when they shall say, Peace and safety! Then sudden destruction comes on them, as travail upon a woman with child. And they shall not escape.
But you, brothers, are not in darkness, that the Day should overtake you like a thief.
You are all the sons of light and the sons of the day. We are not of the night, or of darkness.
Therefore let us not sleep as the rest do, but let us watch and be calm.
For those sleeping sleep in the night, and those being drunken are drunken in the night.
But let us, who are of the day, be calm, having put on the breastplate of faith and love and the hope of salvation for a helmet.
For God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, so that whether we watch or sleep we should live together with Him.
Therefore comfort one another, and edify one another, even as you also do.
And, brothers, we beseech you to know those who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and who admonish you,
and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Be at peace among yourselves.
Now we exhort you, brothers, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted, support the weak, be patient toward all.
See that none gives evil for evil to anyone, but always pursue the good, both towards one another and towards all.
Rejoice evermore.
Pray without ceasing.
In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not despise prophesying.
Prove all things, hold fast to the good.
Abstain from every appearance of evil.
And may the God of peace Himself sanctify you, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is He who called you, who also will do it.
Brothers, pray for us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I charge you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the holy brothers.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.