Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men came from the east to Jerusalem,
saying, Where is He who is born king of the Jews? For we have seen His star in the east and have come to worship Him.
But when Herod the king heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born.
And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For so it is written by the prophet,
"And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the governors of Judah. For out of you shall come a Governor who shall rule My people Israel."
Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, inquired of them exactly what time the star appeared.
And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child. And when you have found him, bring me word again so that I may come and worship him also.
When they had heard the king, they departed. And lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them until it came and stood over where the child was.
And seeing the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy.
And coming into the house, they saw the child with Mary His mother. And they fell down and worshiped Him. And opening their treasures, they presented gifts to Him, gold and frankincense and myrrh.
And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way.
And when they had departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise and take the young child and His mother and flee into Egypt. And be there until I bring you word, for Herod is about to seek the child to destroy Him.
And he arose and took the young child and his mother by night and departed into Egypt.
And he was there until the death of Herod; so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the LORD through the prophet, "Out of Egypt I have called My Son."
Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked by the wise men, was greatly enraged. And he sent and killed all the boys in Bethlehem, and in all its districts, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had carefully inquired of the wise men.
Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying,
"A voice was heard in Ramah, wailing and weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they are not."
But Herod having expired, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
saying, Arise, and take the child and His mother. And go into the land of Israel. For the ones who sought the child's life are dead.
And he arose and took the child and His mother and came into the land of Israel.
But when he heard that Archelaus reigned in Judea in his father Herod's place, he was afraid to go there. And being warned by God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee.
And he came and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, "He shall be called a Nazarene."