And it happened, at the end of twenty years, Solomon built the house of Jehovah, and his own house.
As to the cities that Hiram had given to Solomon, Solomon had built them, and he caused the sons of Israel to live there.
And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah and prevailed over it.
And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities that he built in Hamath.
And he built Beth-horon the upper, and Beth-horon the lower, as fortified cities, with walls, two leaved doors, and bars;
and Baalath, and all the store cities that Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and the cities of the horsemen, and all the desire of Solomon that he wanted to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
All the people who were left of the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel,
(they were of their sons who were left after them in the land, whom the sons of Israel had not exterminated) Solomon caused them to go for forced labor to this day.
And none of the sons of Israel did Solomon make slaves for his work, but they were men of war, and commanders of his officers, and commanders of his chariots, and his horsemen.
And these were the commanders of the deputies king Solomon had, two hundred and fifty who were rulers among the people.
And Solomon had brought up Pharaoh's daughter from the city of David to the house that he had built for her. For he said, My wife shall not live in the house of David the king of Israel, for they are holy, to whom the ark of Jehovah has come.
Then Solomon offered burnt offerings to Jehovah on the altar of Jehovah that he had built before the porch,
even as the duty of every day required, offering according to the commandment of Moses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the appointed feasts three times in the year, in the Feast of Unleavened Bread , and in the Feast of Weeks, and in the Feast of Booths.
And according to the decree of his father David, he made stand the divisions of the priests over their service, and of the Levites over their charges, to praise and to minister before the priests, according to the duty of every day, and the gatekeepers in their courses at every gate, for so was the command of David the man of God.
And they did not turn aside from the king's command as to the priests and the Levites in regard to any matter, and to the treasures.
And all the work of Solomon was prepared to the day of the foundation of the house of Jehovah, and until its completion. The house of Jehovah was finished.
And Solomon went to Ezion-geber, and to Eloth on the seacoast, in the land of Edom.
And Hiram sent ships to him by the hand of his servants, and servants who knew the sea. And they went with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold, and brought it to king Solomon.