I say therefore, did God thrust away his people? May it not happen! For I also am an Israelite from the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
God did not thrust away his people whom he foreknew. Or know ye not what the scripture tells by Elijah? How he encounters God about Israel.
Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and they have torn down thine altars, and I am left alone, and they seek my life.
But what does the divine response say to him? I have reserved for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed a knee to Baal.
So then also at this present time there has become a remnant according to the selection of grace.
And if it is by grace, it is no longer from works, otherwise grace becomes no longer grace. But if it is from works it is no longer grace, otherwise work is no longer work.
What then? What Israel seeks, this it did not obtain. But the chosen obtained it, and the rest were hardened,
just as it is written that God gave them a spirit of slumber: eyes not to see, and ears not to hear, until this very day.
And David says, Let their table become for a snare, and for a trap, and for a stumbling block, and for a retribution to them.
Let their eyes be darkened, not to see, and may thou bow down their back always.
I say then, did they stumble so that they would fall? May it not happen! But in their transgression, salvation is to the Gentiles, in order to provoke them to jealousy.
Now if their transgression is wealth of the world, and their failure is wealth of Gentiles, how much more their fullness?
For I speak to you the Gentiles. Inasmuch as I am indeed an apostle of Gentiles, I enhance my ministry,
if somehow I may provoke my flesh to jealousy and may save some of them.
For if the casting away of them is reconciliation of the world, what is the acceptance except life from the dead?
And if the first fruit is holy, the branch is also. And if the root is holy, the branches are also.
And if some of the branches were broken off, and thou, being a wild olive tree, were grafted in among them, and became a joint partaker of the root of the fatness of the olive tree,
do not boast against the branches. But if thou boast, thou do not bear the root, but the root thee.
Thou will therefore say, Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.
Correct! They were broken off for their unbelief, and thou stand by thy faith. Be not high-minded but fear,
for if God spared not the natural branches, perhaps neither will he spare thee.
Behold therefore the goodness and the severity of God. Indeed toward those who fell, severity, but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his goodness, otherwise thou too will be cut off.
And also those, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
For if thou were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural ones, be grafted into their own olive tree.
For I do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise according to yourselves, that a callousness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles come in.
And so all Israel will be saved, as it is written, The man who delivers will come from Zion, and will turn away impiety from Jacob.
And this is the covenant from me to them when I will take away their sins.
They are indeed enemies toward the good news for your sake, but toward selection, they are beloved for the fathers' sake.
For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
For as ye once were also disobedient to God, but now have received mercy at the disobedience of these,
so also now these have been disobedient for thy mercy, so that they also may receive mercy.
For God has confined all men in disobedience, so that he might be merciful to all.
O the depth of wealth, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways beyond finding out!
For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who became his counselor?
Or who first gave to him, and it will be repaid to him?
Because from him, and through him, and for him, are all things. To him is the glory into the ages. Truly.