AND on the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:
So Jesus also, and his disciples, were invited to the marriage.
And the wine being exhausted, the mother of Jesus saith to him, They have no more wine.
Jesus saith unto her, What is that to me and thee, woman? my hour is not yet come.
His mother saith to the waiters, Whatsoever he orders you, do it.
Now there stood there six large stone jars, for the customary purifying ablution of the Jews, containing two or three baths each.
Jesus saith to them, Fill these jars with water. And they filled them to the brim.
And he said unto them, Draw out now, and carry to the president of the table. So they carried it.
And when the president of the table had tasted the water become wine, and knew not whence it came: (but the waiters knew, who drew the water;) the president of the table called the bridegroom,
and saith to him, Every man at first produces the good wine; and after men have drunk plentifully, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept back the good wine until now.
This beginning of miracles Jesus wrought in Cana of Galilee, and displayed his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
After this he went down to Capernaum, he and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and he continued there not many days.
And the passover of the Jews was nigh, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And he found in the temple those who sold oxen, and sheep, and doves, and the moneychangers seated:
and having made a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and scattered the money of the exchangers, and overturned the tables;
and said to those who sold doves, Take these hence; make not my Father’s house a house of merchandise.
Then the disciples remembered that it was written, “The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.”
The Jews then addressed him, and said to him, What miracle shewest thou, seeing thou actest thus?
Jesus answered and said to them, Pull down this temple, and in three days I will rear it up again.
Then said the Jews, This temple has been forty-six years in building, and canst thou rear it up in three days?
Now he had spoken with reference to the temple of his own body.
When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had spoken thus unto them; and they believed the scriptures, and the word which Jesus had spoken.
Now while he was at Jerusalem at the passover, during the feast, many believed on his name, when they beheld the miracles which he did.
But Jesus himself did not trust himself to them, because he knew them all,
and because he had no need that any man should testify respecting man; for he knew what was in man.