Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, [being] the ninth [hour].
And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of those that entered into the temple,
who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked [for] alms.
And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us.
And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them.
Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have I give thee: in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk.
And he took him by the right hand and lifted [him] up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength.
And he, leaping up, stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
and they knew that it was he who sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him.
And as the lame man who was healed held [onto] Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
And when Peter saw [it], he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though by our own virtue or godliness we had made this man walk?
The God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his Son Jesus, whom ye delivered up and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he had judged to let [him] go.
But ye denied the Holy One and the Just and desired a murderer to be granted unto you
and killed the Author of life, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And in the faith of his name, unto this man whom ye see and know, has confirmed his name; and the faith which is by him has given this man this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.
And now, brethren, I know that through ignorance ye did [it] as [did] also your princes.
But God has thus fulfilled those things which he had showed in advance by the mouth of all his prophets, that his Christ should suffer.
Repent ye therefore and be converted that your sins may be blotted out, for the times of refreshing of the presence of the Lord are come;
who has sent Jesus Christ, who before was preached unto you,
whom it is certainly necessary that the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God has spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the age [began].
For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear in all things [doing] whatever he shall say unto you.
And it shall come to pass [that] every soul which will not hear that prophet shall be destroyed from among the people.
And all the prophets from Samuel and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.
Ye are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying unto Abraham, And in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
Unto you first, God, having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you, that each one of you might turn from his iniquities.: