And Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I speak in your ears this day, that ye may learn them, and observe to do them.
Jehovah our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
Jehovah did not make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day.
Jehovah spoke with you face to face in the mount out of the midst of the fire
(I stood between Jehovah and you at that time, to show you the word of Jehovah, for ye were afraid because of the fire, and did not go up onto the mount), saying,
I am Jehovah thy God who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Thou shall have no other gods before me.
Thou shall not make to thee a graven image: any likeness that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Thou shall not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, Jehovah thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the sons, and upon the third and upon the fourth generation of those who hate me,
and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
Thou shall not take the name of Jehovah thy God in vain, for Jehovah will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
Observe the sabbath day, to keep it holy, as Jehovah thy God commanded thee.
Six days thou shall labor, and do all thy work,
but the seventh day is a sabbath to Jehovah thy God: thou shall not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thine ox, nor thy donkey, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates, that thy man-servant and thy maid-servant may rest as well as thou.
And thou shall remember that thou were a servant in the land of Egypt, and Jehovah thy God brought thee out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm, therefore Jehovah thy God commanded thee to keep the sabbath day.
Honor thy father and thy mother, as Jehovah thy God commanded thee, that thy days may be long, and that it may go well with thee in the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee.
Thou shall not murder.
Neither shall thou commit adultery.
Neither shall thou steal.
Neither shall thou bear false witness against thy neighbor.
Neither shall thou covet thy neighbor's wife. Neither shall thou desire thy neighbor's house, his field, or his man-servant, or his maid-servant, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is thy neighbor's.
These words Jehovah spoke to all your assembly on the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice, and he added no more. And he wrote them upon two tablets of stone, and gave them to me.
And it came to pass, when ye heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, that ye came near to me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders.
And ye said, Behold, Jehovah our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire. We have seen this day that God speaks with man, and he lives.
Now therefore why should we die? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the voice of Jehovah our God any more, then we shall die.
For who is there of all flesh, who has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived?
Go thou near, and hear all that Jehovah our God shall say. And speak thou to us all that Jehovah our God shall speak to thee, and we will hear it, and do it.
And Jehovah heard the voice of your words, when ye spoke to me. And Jehovah said to me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken to thee. They have well said all that they have spoken.
Oh that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me, and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them, and with their sons forever!
Go say to them, Return ye to your tents.
But as for thee, stand thou here by me, and I will speak to thee all the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which thou shall teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it.
Ye shall observe to do therefore as Jehovah your God has commanded you. Ye shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
Ye shall walk in all the way which Jehovah your God has commanded you, that ye may live, and that it may be well with you, and that ye may prolong your days in the land which ye shall possess.