I have let myself be consulted by them who had not asked, I have suffered myself to be found by them who had not sought me,—I have said, Here I am! Here I am! Unto a nation that had not been called by my name,
I have spread out my hands all the day, Unto a rebellious people,—Who walk In the way that is not good, After their own devices.
The people who are provoking me to anger to my face continually,—Sacrificing in gardens, and Burning incense upon bricks;
Who tarry among graves, And in the secret places, do lodge, Who eat the flesh of swine, And the broth of refuse things is in their vessels,—
Who say—Draw near by thyself, Do not approach with me, For I am holier than thou! These, are A smoke in my nostrils, A fire, burning all the day.
Lo! it is written before me,—I will not keep silence, But I have recompensed, and will recompense into their bosom:
Your own iniquities, And the, iniquities of your fathers together, Saith Yahweh, Who have burned incense upon the mountains, And upon the hills, have reproached me,—Therefore will I measure their former work into their bosom.
Thus, saith Yahweh—As, new wine, is found, in the cluster, And one saith, Do not destroy it, for a blessing is in it, So, will I do for the sake of my servants, That I may not destroy the whole [nation] ;
Therefore will I bring forth Out of Jacob, a seed, and Out of Judah, an inheritor of my mountains, That my chosen ones may inherit it, And, my servants, dwell there;
Then shall, Sharon, become, a fold for flocks, And the vale of Achor for the lying down of herds,—For my people who have sought me.
But, ye are they—Who forsake Yahweh Who forget my holy mountain—Who prepare, for Fortune, a table and Who fill for Destiny, mixed wine;
Therefore will I destine you to the sword, And, ye all, to the slaughter, shall bow down. Because I called and ye answered not, I spake, and ye hearkened not,—But did that which was wicked in mine eyes, And of that wherein I delighted not, ye made choice,
Therefore, Thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh,—Lo! my servants, shall eat but, ye, shall be famished, Lo! my servants, shall drink but, ye shall be thirsty,—Lo! my servants, shall rejoice but ye, shall turn pale;
Lo! my servants, shall shout in triumph for mirth of heart But, ye, shall make outcry, for pain of heart, And for a breaking of spirit, shall ye howl.
So shall ye leave your name for an oath, to my chosen ones,—So then My Lord Yahweh, will slay thee,—And his servants, will he, call by another name:
So that he who blesseth himself in the earth, Will bless himself in the God of faithfulness, And he who sweareth in the earth Will swear by the God of faithfulness—Because the former troubles have been forgotten, and Because they are hid from mine eyes.
For, behold me! Creating new heavens, and a new earth,—And the former shall not be mentioned, neither shall they come up on the heart,
But joy ye and exult, perpetually, in what I am about to create,—For, behold me! Creating Jerusalem an exultation and Her People a joy;
Therefore will I Exult in Jerusalem, and Joy in my People,—And there shall be heard in her, no more The sound of weeping, or the sound of a cry:
There shall be thenceforward, no more, A suckling of a few days, or an elder Who filleth not up his days,—But, a youth a hundred years old, may die, Yea a sinner a hundred years old, shall be accursed,
Then shall they build houses and dwell in them,—And plant vineyards and eat the fruit of them;
They shall not build, and another, dwell, They shall not plant, and, another, eat,—For as the days of a tree, shall be the days of my people, And, the work of their own hands, shall my chosen ones, use to the full:
They shall not labour in vain, Nor have children for terror,—For the seed of the blessed ones of Yahweh, shall they be, And their offspring, with them.
And it shall come to pass—That before they call, I, will answer, And while yet they are speaking, I, will hear.
The wolf and the lamb, shall feed, in unity, And, the lion, as an ox, shall eat straw; But as for the serpent, dust, shall be his food: They shall not harm—Nor shall they destroy, In all my holy mountain, saith Yahweh.