And it happened, when Jesus had finished commanding His twelve disciples, He left there to teach and to proclaim in their cities.
But when John heard in the prison of the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples.
And they said to Him, Are You he who should come, or do we look for another?
Jesus answered and said to them, Go and tell John again those things which you hear and see:
the blind receive their sight, and the lame walk; the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear; the dead are raised, and the poor have the gospel proclaimed to them.
And blessed is he, whoever shall not be offended in Me.
And as they departed, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John, What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft clothing? Behold, they who wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say to you, and one more excellent than a prophet.
For this is the one of whom it is written, "Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who shall prepare Your way before You."
Truly I say to you, Among those who have been born of women there has not risen a greater one than John the Baptist. But the least in the kingdom of Heaven is greater than he.
And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of Heaven is taken by violence, and the violent take it by force.
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
And if you will receive it, this is Elijah who is to come.
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
But to what shall I compare to this generation? It is like little children sitting in the markets and calling to their playmates,
saying, We played the flute to you, and you did not dance! We mourned to you, but you did not wail!
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon.
The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man who is a glutton and a winebibber, a friend of tax-collectors and sinners. But wisdom was justified by her children.
Then He began to upbraid the cities in which most of His mighty works were done, because they did not repent.
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the powerful acts which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes!
But I say to you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you.
And you, Capernaum, who are exalted to the heaven, shall be brought down to hell. For if the mighty works which have been done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.
But I say to you, it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you.
At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank You, O Father, Lord of Heaven and earth, because You have hidden these things from the sophisticated and cunning, and revealed them to babes.
Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in Your sight.
All things are delivered to Me by My Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father. Nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son will reveal Him.
Come to Me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Take My yoke on you and learn of Me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find rest to your souls.
For My yoke is easy, and My burden is light.