AND I saw, and lo, a lamb stood upon the mount Zion, and with him an hundred forty-four thousand, having the name of his Father inscribed on their foreheads.
And I heard a voice from heaven, as the sound of many waters, and as the roar of loud thunder; and I heard the sound of harpers harping on their harps:
and they sang as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four living beings, and the presbyters: and no person could learn that song, but the hundred forty-four thousand, who were redeemed from the earth.
These are they who have not defiled themselves with women; for they are virgins: these are they who follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth: these have been redeemed among men, as first-fruits to God, and to the Lamb.
And in their mouth no guile is found; for they are blameless before the throne of God.
And I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach the glad tidings to the inhabitants of the earth, to every nation, and tribe, and tongue, and people,
saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give him glory; for the hour of his judgment is come; and worship him that made the heaven and the earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.
And another angel followed, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because all nations have been made to drink of the wine of the wrath of her whoredom.
And a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any person worship the beast, and his image, and receive the brand upon his forehead, and upon his right hand,
he also shall drink of the wine of the fury of God, which is mixed undiluted with water in the cup of his wrath; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
and the smoke of their torment ascendeth for ever and ever: and they have no respite day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the brand of his name.
Here is the patience of the saints: here are they who keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, from henceforward: yea, saith the Spirit, that they may have rest from their labours; but their works follow after them.
And I saw, and, lo! a white cloud, and upon the cloud sat one like to a son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.
And anther angel came forth out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat upon the cloud, Put in thy sickle, and reap: for the hour is come for thee to reap; because the harvest of the earth is fully ripe.
And he who sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle upon the earth, and the earth was reaped.
And another angel came forth out of the temple which is in heaven, having also himself a sharp sickle.
And another angel came forth from the altar, having authority over fire; and he cried with a loud voice to him who held the sharp sickle, saying, Put in thy sharp sickle, and gather the bunches of the vine of the earth; for her clusters are ripe.
And the angel thrust in his sickle upon the earth, and gathered the grapes of the vine of the earth, and cast them into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
And the wine-press was trodden without the city, and blood issued from the wine-press, as high as the horses’ bridles, for the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs.