For the Leader. A Psalm of David. O HaShem, Thou hast searched me, and known me.
Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, Thou understandest my thought afar off.
Thou measurest my going about and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.
For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O HaShem, Thou knowest it altogether.
Thou hast hemmed me in behind and before, and laid Thy hand upon me.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; too high, I cannot attain unto it.
Whither shall I go from Thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from Thy presence?
If I ascend up into heaven, Thou art there; if I make my bed in the nether-world, behold, Thou art there.
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;
Even there would Thy hand lead me, and Thy right hand would hold me.
And if I say: 'Surely the darkness shall envelop me, and the light about me shall be night';
Even the darkness is not too dark for Thee, but the night shineth as the day; the darkness is even as the light.
For Thou hast made my reins; Thou hast knit me together in my mother's womb.
I will give thanks unto Thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; wonderful are Thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.
My frame was not hidden from Thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.
Thine eyes did see mine unformed substance, and in Thy book they were all written--even the days that were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.
How weighty also are Thy thoughts unto me, O G-d! How great is the sum of them!
If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand; were I to come to the end of them, I would still be with Thee.
If Thou but wouldest slay the wicked, O G-d--depart from me therefore, ye men of blood;
Who utter Thy name with wicked thought, they take it for falsehood, even Thine enemies--
Do not I hate them, O HaShem, that hate Thee? And do not I strive with those that rise up against Thee?
I hate them with utmost hatred; I count them mine enemies.
Search me, O G-d, and know my heart, try me, and know my thoughts;
And see if there be any way in me that is grievous, and lead me in the way everlasting.