But it shall be in the last days the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be lifted up above the hills; and peoples shall flow to it.
And many nations shall come and say, Come and let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, and to the house of the God of Jacob. And He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths; for the law shall go forth out of Zion, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
And He shall judge between many peoples, and will decide for strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up a sword against nation, And they shall not still learn war.
But they shall sit each one under his vine and under his fig tree; and there shall be no trembling; for the mouth of the LORD of hosts has spoken,
For all peoples will walk, each one in the name of his god; and we will walk in the name of the LORD our God forever and ever.
In that day, says the LORD, I will gather the lame, and I will gather the banished, and the one I have afflicted.
And I will make the lame into a remnant, and her who was cast off a strong nation; and the LORD shall reign over them in Mount Zion from now on, even forever.
And you, O tower of the flock, the hill of the daughter of Zion, to you it shall happen. And rulers, the chief ones, shall come, the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem.
Now why do you cry aloud? Is there no king among you? Has your counselor perished? For pangs have taken you like one giving birth.
Be in pain and deliver, daughter of Zion, like one giving birth. For now you shall go out from the city, and you shall dwell in the field; and you shall go to Babylon. There you shall be snatched back; there the LORD shall redeem you from the hand of your enemies.
Now also many nations are gathered against you, who say, Let her be defiled, and let our eyes look on Zion.
But they do not know the plans of the LORD, nor do they understand His counsel. For He has gathered them like the sheaf to the floor.
Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion; for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze; and you shall crush many peoples. And I will give their gain to the LORD, and their wealth to the Lord of the all the earth.