In the second year of Joash the son of Jehoahaz the king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash the king of Judah reigned.
He was a son of twenty five years when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty nine years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
And he did the right in the eyes of Jehovah, but not like his father David; he did according to all that his father Joash did;
however, the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and offered in the high places.
And it happened, when the kingdom was strong in his hand, he put to death his servants, those who had put to death his father the king.
But he did not put to death the sons of those who struck him , as it is written in the book of the law of Moses that Jehovah commanded, saying, The fathers are not to be put to death for the sons, and the sons are not to be put to death for the fathers, but each shall be put to death for his own sin.
He struck Edom in the Valley of Salt, ten thousand, and captured the Rock by war, and called its name Joktheel to this day.
Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying, Come, we shall look one another in the face.
And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah the king of Judah, saying, The thorn that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son as wife; and a beast of the field in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thorn.
You have certainly stricken Edom, and your heart has lifted you up. Glory in it and stay in your house; and why should you stir yourself up to evil so that you may fall, you and Judah with you?
But Amaziah would not listen, and Jehoash the king of Israel went up; and they looked one another in the face, he and Amaziah the king of Judah, in Beth-shemesh of Judah.
And Judah was stricken before Israel, and they each fled to his tent.
And Amaziah the king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Ahaziah, Jehoash the king of Israel caught in Beth-shemesh. And they came in to Jerusalem, and he broke through the wall of Jerusalem at the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits.
And he took all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of Jehovah, and in the treasures of the king's house, and the hostages, and returned to Samaria.
And the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah the king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And Jehoash lay with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. And his son Jeroboam reigned in his place.
And Amaziah the son of Joash the king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz the king of Israel.
And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. and they sent after him to Lachish and killed him there.
And they lifted him up on the horses, and he was buried in Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.
And all the people of Judah took Azariah (and he was a son of sixteen years), and they made him king instead of his father Amaziah.
He built Elath and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers.
In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash the king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Jehoash the king of Israel reigned in Samaria, forty one years.
And he did the evil in the eyes of Jehovah; he did not turn aside from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he caused Israel to sin.
He restored the border of Israel from the entering in of Hamath to the sea of the Arabah, according to the word of Jehovah the God of Israel which He spoke by the hand of his servant Jonah the prophet, the son of Amittai of Gathhepher.
For Jehovah had seen the affliction of Israel to be very bitter; and none was bound, and none free, and there was no helper for Israel.
And Jehovah had not spoken that He would blot the name of Israel from under the heavens, but saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash.
And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, all that he did, and his might with which he fought, and with which he recovered Damascus and Hamath of Judah for Israel, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And Jeroboam lay with his fathers, with the kings of Israel. And his son Zechariah reigned in his place.