And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, These are the animals which you shall eat among all the animals that are in the earth.
Whatever divides the hoof, and is cloven-footed, chewing the cud, among the animals, that you shall eat.
Only, you shall not eat these of them that chew the cud, or of them that divide the hoof: the camel, for he chews the cud but does not divide the hoof; he is unclean to you.
And the rock badger, because he chews the cud, but does not divide the hoof; he is unclean to you.
And the hare, because he chews the cud but does not divide the hoof; he is unclean to you.
And the swine, though he divides the hoof and is cloven-footed, yet he does not chew the cud; he is unclean to you.
You shall not eat of their flesh, and you shall not touch their dead body. They are unclean to you.
These you shall eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them you shall eat.
And all that have not fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of any living thing that is in the waters, they shall be an abomination to you.
They shall even be an abomination to you. You shall not eat of their flesh, but you shall have their carcasses in abomination.
Whatever has no fins nor scales in the waters shall be an abomination to you.
And you shall have these in abomination among the fowls. They shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the black vulture, and the bearded vulture,
and the kite, and the falcon, according to its kind;
every raven according to its kind;
and the ostrich, and the great owl, and the gull, and small hawks, according to its kind,
and the little owl, and the cormorant, and the eared owl;
and the barn owl, and the pelican, and the owl-vulture;
and the stork, the heron according to its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
Every flying swarming creature going on all four, it is an abomination to you.
Yet you may eat these of any flying swarming thing that goes on all four, those which have legs above their feet, to leap with on the earth.
You may eat these of them: the locust after its kind, and the bald locust after its kind, and the long horned locust after its kind, and the short horned grasshopper after its kind.
But every other flying swarming thing which has four feet shall be an abomination to you.
And you shall be unclean for these. Whoever touches their dead body shall be unclean until the evening.
And whoever carries the carcass of them shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening;
even every living thing which divides the hoof, and is not cloven-footed, nor chews the cud, they are unclean to you. Everyone that touches them shall be unclean.
And whatever goes on its paws, among all the living things that go on all four, those are unclean to you. Whoever touches their dead body shall be unclean until the evening.
And he that carries their dead bodies shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. They are unclean to you.
These also shall be unclean to you among the swarming things that swarm on the earth: the weasel, and the mouse, and the great lizard after its kind;
and the gecko, and the monitor, and the lizard, and the sand lizard, and chameleon.
These are unclean to you among all that swarm. Whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening.
And whatever shall fall on any of them when they are dead, shall be unclean, whether any vessel of wood, or clothing, or skin, or sack; whatever vessel in which work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean to the evening. So it shall be cleaned.
And every earthen vessel in which any of them falls, whatever is in it shall be unclean. And you shall break it.
Of all food which may be eaten, that on which such water comes shall be unclean. And all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.
And every thing on which any part of their dead body falls shall be unclean; whether it is the oven, or ranges for pots, they shall be broken down. They are unclean, and shall be unclean to you.
But a fountain or pit, with a collection of water, shall be clean. But that which touches their dead body shall be unclean.
And if any of their dead body falls on any sowing seed which is to be sown, it shall be clean.
But if any water is put on the seed, and any part of the dead body falls on it, it shall be unclean to you.
And if any animal among those you may eat dies, he that touches its dead body shall be unclean until the evening.
And he that eats of its dead body shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. He also that carries its body shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.
And every swarming thing that swarms on the earth shall be an abomination. It shall not be eaten.
Anything going on its belly, and any going on all four, and all having many feet, even every swarming thing that swarms on the earth, you shall not eat them. For they are an abomination.
You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that swarms, neither shall you make yourselves unclean with them, so that you should be defiled by them.
For I am the LORD your God, and you shall sanctify yourselves, and you shall be holy, for I am holy. Neither shall you defile yourselves with any kind of swarming thing that swarms on the earth.
For I am the LORD who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.
This is the law of the animals, and of the fowl, and of every living creature that moves in the waters, and of every creature that swarms on the earth,
to make a difference between the unclean and the clean, and between the creature that may be eaten and the creature that may not be eaten.