Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign. And he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hephzibah.
And he did the evil in the sight of the LORD, after the abominations of the heathen whom the LORD cast out before the sons of Israel.
For he built up again the high places which his father Hezekiah had destroyed. And he reared up altars for Baal, and made an Asherah, as Ahab king of Israel did. And he worshiped all the host of heaven, and served them.
And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD said, In Jerusalem I will put My name.
And he built altars for all the host of the heavens in the two courts of the house of the LORD.
And he made his son pass through the fire, and observed times and used fortune-tellers. And he dealt with familiar spirits and wizards. He worked much wickedness in the sight of the LORD, to provoke Him to anger.
And he set a graven image of the Asherah which he had made in the house, of which the LORD had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever.
And I will not again make the feet of Israel wander any more out of the land which I gave their fathers; only if they will be careful to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law that My servant Moses commanded them.
But they did not listen. And Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than the nations ever did, whom the LORD destroyed before the sons of Israel.
And the LORD spoke by His servants the prophets, saying,
Because Manasseh king of Judah has done these abominations, doing more wickedly than all that the Amorites did, who were before him, and has made Judah also to sin with his idols,
therefore, so says the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing evil on Jerusalem and Judah, so that whoever hears of it, both his ears shall tingle.
And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the measuring line of the house of Ahab. And I will wipe Jerusalem like a dish is wiped, wiping and turning it upside down.
And I will forsake the remnant of My inheritance, and deliver them into the hand of their enemies. And they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies,
because they have done the evil in My sight, and have provoked Me to anger, since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt even until this day.
And also Manasseh shed very much innocent blood, until he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another, besides his sin with which he made Judah to sin, in doing the evil in the sight of the LORD.
Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, and his sin which he sinned, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. And his son Amon reigned in his place.
Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.
And he did the evil in the sight of the LORD, as his father Manasseh did.
And he walked in all the way that his father walked, and served the idols which his father served, and worshiped them.
And he left the LORD God of his fathers, and did not walk in the way of the LORD.
And the servants of Amon plotted against him and killed the king in his own house.
And the people of the land killed all those who had plotted against king Amon. And the people of the land made his son Josiah king in his place.
And the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not written in the Books of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And he was buried in his tomb in the garden of Uzza. And his son Josiah reigned in his place.