And it shall be when thou shalt enter into the land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee for an inheritance,—and shalt possess it and dwell therein,
then shalt thou take—of the first of all the fruit of the soil which thou shalt bring in from thy land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee and shalt put it in a basket,—and go thy way unto the place which Yahweh thy God shall choose, to make a habitation for his name there.
And thou shalt come in unto the priest who shall be in those days,—and shalt say unto him—I declare to-day unto Yahweh thy God, that I am come into the land which Yahweh sware unto our fathers that he would give unto us.
Then shall the priest take the basket out of thy hand,—and set it down before the altar of Yahweh thy God.
And thou shalt respond and say before Yahweh thy God—A Syrian ready to perish, was my father, so he went down to Egypt, and became a sojourner there with men only few; but he became there a nation great, mighty and numerous;
and the Egyptians, badly entreated us, and humiliated us,—and put upon us harsh service;
so we made outcry unto Yahweh God of our fathers,—and Yahweh hearkened unto our voice, and looked upon our humiliation and our toil, and our oppression;
and Yahweh, brought us forth, out of Egypt, with a firm hand and with a stretched-out arm, and with great terror,—and with signs and with wonders;
and brought us into this place, and gave unto us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Now, therefore lo! I have brought in the first of the fruit of the soil, which thou hast given unto me, O Yahweh. Thus shalt thou set it down before Yahweh thy God, and shall bow thyself down before Yahweh thy God;
and shalt rejoice in all the good things which Yahweh thy God, hath given unto thee, and unto thy house,—thou and the Levite, and the sojourner who is in thy midst.
When thou shalt make an end of tithing all the tithe of thine increase in the third year the year of tithing,—and shalt give unto the Levite unto the sojourner, unto the fatherless and unto the widow, and they shall eat within thy gates and be satisfied,
then shalt thou say—before Yahweh thy God:—I have carefully removed that which was hallowed out of the house moreover also I have given it unto the Levite, and unto the sojourner unto the fatherless and unto the widow, according to all thy commandment which thou hast commanded me,—I have not transgressed any of thy commandments neither have I forgotten,
I have not eaten in my sorrow therefrom neither have I removed therefrom when unclean, neither have I given thereof unto the dead,—I have hearkened unto the voice of Yahweh my God, I have done according to all which thou hast commanded me.
Look thou down out of thy holy habitation out of the heavens and bless thy people Israel, and the soil which thou hast given unto us,—as thou didst swear unto our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
This day, is Yahweh thy God commanding thee to do these statutes and the regulations,—thou shalt therefore observe and do them, with all thy heart and with all thy soul.
Thou hast avowed to-day that Yahweh, shall be, thy God, and that thou wilt walk in his ways, and keep his statutes and his commandments and his regulations and wilt hearken unto his voice.
And, Yahweh, hath avowed to-day that thou shalt be, his people, as a treasure, as he spake unto thee,—and that thou shalt observe all his commandments;
and [hath avowed] that he will set thee on high above all the nations which he hath made, for praise, and for renown and for glory, and that thou shalt be a holy people unto Yahweh thy God as he hath spoken.