A soft answer turns away wrath, but a hurtful word stirs up anger.
The tongue of the wise uses knowledge rightly, but the mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
The eyes of Jehovah are in every place watching the evil and the good.
A wholesome tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it is a break of the spirit.
A fool despises his father's instruction, but he keeping correction is sensible.
In the house of the righteous is much treasure, but in the gain of the wicked is tumult.
The lips of the wise extend knowledge, but the heart of the fool is not so.
The sacrifice of the wicked is a hateful thing to Jehovah, but the prayer of the upright is His delight.
The way of the wicked is hateful to Jehovah, but He loves him who pursues righteousness.
Discipline is grievous to him who forsakes the way, he who hates reproof shall die.
Hell and destruction are before Jehovah; even more the hearts of the sons of men!
A scorner loves not one who corrects him, nor will he go to the wise.
A joyful heart makes a good face, but by grief of heart the spirit is stricken.
The heart of the understanding one seeks knowledge, but the mouth of fools feeds on folly.
All the days of the afflicted are evil, but gladness of heart is a continual feast.
Better is a little with the fear of Jehovah than great treasure and tumult with it.
Better is a dinner of vegetables where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred with it.
A furious man stirs up quarreling, but he who is slow to anger calms fighting.
The way of the lazy one is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the righteous is exalted.
A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother.
Foolishness is joy to him who lacks understanding, but a man of understanding walks straight.
Without counsel purposes are broken, but by many counselors they rise.
A man has joy by the answer of his mouth, and how good is a word in its season!
The path of life is upward to the prudent, that he may turn away from Sheol downward.
Jehovah will destroy the house of the proud, but He will set up the widow's border.
The thoughts of the wicked are very hateful to Jehovah, but the words of pleasantness are pure.
He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, but he who hates bribes shall live.
The heart of the righteous muses how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
Jehovah is far from the wicked, but He hears the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes rejoices the heart, a good report makes the bones fat.
The ear that hears the reproof of life shall remain among the wise.
He who ignores correction despises his own soul, but he who hears reproof gets understanding.
The fear of Jehovah is instruction in wisdom, and before honor is humility.