Now concerning the collections which are made for the saints: just as I have arranged for the churches of Galatia, so should it also be done with you.
On the first day of the week, the Sabbath, let each one of you take from himself, setting aside what will be well-pleasing to him, so that when I arrive, the collections will not have to be made then.
And when I am present, whomever you shall approve through letters, these I shall send to bear your gifts to Jerusalem.
And if it is fitting for me to go too, they shall go with me.
Now I will visit you after I have passed through Macedonia. For I will pass through Macedonia.
And perhaps I will stay with you, and even spend the winter, so that you may lead me on my way, whenever I depart.
For I am not willing to see you now only in passing, since I hope that I may remain with you for some length of time, if the Lord permits.
But I must remain at Ephesus, even until Pentecost.
For a door, great and unavoidable, has opened to me, as well as many adversaries.
Now if Timothy arrives, see to it that he may be among you without fear. For he is doing the work of the Lord, just as I also do.
Therefore, let no one despise him. Instead, lead him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me. For I am awaiting him with the brothers.
But concerning our brother, Apollo, I am letting you know that I pleaded with him greatly to go to you with the brothers, and clearly it was not his will to go at this time. But he will arrive when there is a space of time for him.
Be vigilant. Stand with faith. Act manfully and be strengthened.
Let all that is yours be immersed in charity.
And I beg you, brothers: You know the house of Stephanus, and of Fortunatus, and of Achaicus, that they are the first-fruits of Achaia, and that they have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints.
So you should be subject also to persons such as this, as well as to all who are cooperating and working with them.
Now I rejoice in the presence of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because what was lacking in you, they have supplied.
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, recognize persons such as this.
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you greatly in the Lord, with the church of their household, where I also am a guest.
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
This is a greeting from my own hand, Paul.
If anyone does not love our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema! Maran Atha.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
My charity is with all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.