And Israel and all belonging to him departed, and he came to Beersheba. And he sacrificed sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.
And God said to Israel in visions of the night, and He spoke, Jacob! Jacob! And he answered, Behold me.
And He said, I am God, the God of your fathers. Do not fear to go down into Egypt, for I will make of you a great nation there.
I will go down with you into Egypt, and I will also surely return you. And Joseph shall put his hand on your eyes.
And Jacob rose up from Beersheba; and the sons of Israel carried their father Jacob, and their little ones, and their wives in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
And they took their livestock and their property which they had acquired in the land of Canaan. And they came into Egypt, Jacob and all his seed with him.
His sons and the sons of his sons were with him, his daughters and his sons' daughters, and all his seed he brought with him into Egypt.
And these were the names of the sons of Israel, those coming into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: the first born of Jacob was Reuben.
And the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanitess.
And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
And the sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zerah. And Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez: Hezron, and Hamul.
And the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.
And the sons of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.
These were the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Padan-aram, and his daughter Dinah. All the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty three.
And the sons of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
And the sons of Asher: Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and their sister Serah. And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel.
These were the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah; and she bore these to Jacob, sixteen souls.
The sons of Rachel the wife of Jacob: Joseph and Benjamin.
And Manasseh and Ephraim were born to Joseph in the land of Egypt, whom Asenath the daughter of Potipherah, priest of On, bore to him.
And the sons of Benjamin: Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, and Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
These were the sons of Rachel which were born to Jacob; all the souls were fourteen.
And the son of Dan was Hushim.
And the sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.
These were the sons of Bilhah whom Laban gave to his daughter Rachel; and she bore these to Jacob, all the souls were seven.
All the souls belonging to Jacob coming into Egypt, those springing from his loins, besides the wives of the sons of Jacob, all the souls were sixty six.
And the sons of Joseph which were born to him in Egypt, two souls. All the souls belonging to the house of Jacob coming into Egypt were seventy.
And he sent Judah before him to Joseph, to give directions before him to Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.
And Joseph prepared his chariot and went up to meet his father Israel to Goshen. And he appeared to him, and fell on his neck and wept on his neck a long time.
And Israel said to Joseph, This time let me die after seeing your face, because you are still alive.
And Joseph said to his brothers, and to the house of his father, I will go up and tell Pharaoh. And I will say to him My brothers and the house of my father, who were in the land of Canaan, have come in to me.
And the men are shepherds of flocks for they have been men of livestock. And their flocks and their herds, and all which belongs to them they have brought in.
And it shall be, when Pharaoh calls to you and says, What is your occupation?
You shall say, Your servants have been men of livestock from our youth even until now, both we and our fathers. This is so that you may live in the land of Goshen. For the abomination of Egypt is every shepherd of flocks.