Let every soul be subject to offices of authority that rank higher. For there is no office of authority if not by God, and the offices of authority that are by God are those that have been instituted.
So that he who resists the office of authority has opposed the ordinance of God, and those who have opposed will receive condemnation to themselves.
For rulers are not a source of fear to the good works, but to the evil. And do thou desire not to fear the office of authority? Do what is good, and thou will have praise from it.
For he is a helper of God to thee for what is good. But if thou do what is evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is a helper of God, vengeful for wrath to the man who commits evil.
Therefore there is a need to be subordinate, not only because of the wrath, but also because of the conscience.
For because of this ye also fulfill taxes, for they are servants of God being devoted to this same thing.
Render therefore to all, the things due: tax to the man of tax, tribute to the man of tribute, fear to the man of fear, esteem to the man of esteem.
Owe no man anything except to love each other, for he who loves the other has fulfilled law.
For this, Thou shall not commit adultery, Thou shall not murder, Thou shall not steal, Thou shall not testify falsely, Thou shall not covet, and if there be any other commandment it is summarized in this saying, in, Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself.
Love works no evil to the neighbor. Therefore love is the fulfillment of law.
And this, knowing the time, that the hour is now for us to awake out of sleep. For our salvation is now nearer than when we believed.
The night has advanced and the day has approached. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the weapons of light.
Let us walk decently as in the day, not in revelry and drunkenness, not in beddings and wantonness, not in strife and envy.
But clothe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no forethought for lusts of the flesh.