I indeed made the former treatise, O Theophilus, about all things that Jesus began both to do and to teach,
until a day in which he was taken up, having commanded, through the Holy Spirit, the apostles whom he chose,
to whom he also presented himself living, after his suffering, by many infallible proofs, being seen by them during forty days, and speaking the things about the kingdom of God.
And being assembled together, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, Which, he said, ye heard from me.
Because John indeed immersed in water, but ye will be immersed in the Holy Spirit after not many of these days.
Indeed therefore having come together, they questioned him, saying, Lord, do thou restore the kingdom to Israel at this time?
And he said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons, which the Father established in his own authority.
But ye will receive the power of the Holy Spirit that comes upon you. And ye will be witnesses to me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and as far as of the extremity of the earth.
And having said these things, as they were watching, he was taken up, and a cloud received him from their eyes.
And while they were gazing at his going into the sky, behold, two men had also stood by them in white apparel,
who also said, Men, Galileans, why stand ye gazing into the sky? This Jesus who was taken up from you into the sky will so come, in that same way as ye saw him going into the sky.
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mountain called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem having a sabbath day journey.
And when they came in, they went up into the upper floor where they were lodging, including, Peter and James and John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas son of James.
All these men were continuing with one accord in prayer and supplication, with women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers.
And in those days, Peter, having stood up in the midst of the disciples (and there was a multitude of names at the same place, about a hundred twenty), he said,
Men, brothers, it was necessary for this scripture to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit foretold through the mouth of David about Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus,
because he was numbered with us, and received a share of this ministry.
(Indeed therefore this man obtained a field from the reward of his unrighteousness, and having become headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out.
And it became known to all those dwelling at Jerusalem, so as to call that field in their own dialect, Akeldama, that is, The field of blood.)
For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation become desolate, and let no man be dwelling in it, and, Let another take his office.
It is necessary therefore, of the men who accompanied us during all the time during which the Lord Jesus went in and went out among us,
having begun from the immersion of John to the day that he was taken up from us, for one of these to become a witness with us of his resurrection.
And they put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
And having prayed, they said, Thou, Lord, knowing the hearts of all men, show which one of these two thou have chosen
to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas transgressed to go to his own place.
And they gave their lots, and the lot fell upon Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.