but Jesus went to the mount of Olives.
And early in the morning he came again to the temple, and all the people were coming to him. And he sat down and taught them.
And the scribes and the Pharisees bring to him a woman taken in adultery; and having set her in the midst,
they say to him, Teacher, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.
Now in the Law Moses commanded us to stone such persons; what then dost thou say?
But this they said to try him, that they might be able to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground.
But when they continued asking him, he lifted himself up, and said to them, Let him that is without sin among you first cast a stone at her.
And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.
And when they heard this, they went out one by one, beginning with the oldest; and Jesus was left alone, and the woman who was in the midst.
And Jesus lifted himself up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Did no one condemn thee!
And she said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more.
Again therefore Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world; he that followeth me shall not walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life.]
The Pharisees therefore said to him, Thou bearest witness of thyself; thy witness is not true.
Jesus answered and said to them, Though I bear witness of myself, my witness is true; for I know whence I came, and whither I go; ye know not whence I come, or whither I go.
Ye judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.
But even if I myself should judge, my judgment is true, because I am not alone, but I and he who sent me.
Moreover, it is written in your law, that the witness of two men is true.
I am one who bear witness of myself, and the Father who sent me beareth witness of me.
They said therefore to him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye know neither me, nor my Father. If ye knew me, ye would know my Father also.
These words he spoke in the treasury, while teaching in the temple; and no one laid hands on him, because his hour had not yet come.
Again therefore he said to them, I go away, and ye will seek me, and will die in your sin. Whither I go, ye cannot come.
The Jews therefore said, Will he kill himself, that he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come?
And he said to them, Ye are from beneath, I am from above; ye are of this world, I am not of this world.
Therefore I said to you, that ye will die in your sins; for unless ye believe that I am He, ye will die in your sins.
They said therefore to him, Who art thou? Jesus said to them, In the first place, I am just that which I speak to you.
I have many things to say, and to judge, concerning you; but he who sent me is true; and I speak to the world what I heard from him.
They understood not that he spoke to them of the Father.
Jesus therefore said, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then ye will know that I am He, and do nothing of myself, but speak these things as the Father taught me.
And he that sent me is with me; he hath not left me alone, for I always do the things that please him.
As he spoke these words, many believed in him.
Jesus therefore said to those Jews who believed in him, If ye continue in my word, ye are truly my disciples;
and ye will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.
They answered him, We are Abraham’s offspring, and have never been in bondage to any one; how sayest, thou, Ye will be made free?
Jesus answered them, Truly, truly do I say to you, Every one that committeth sin is a bond-servant of sin.
And the bond-servant abideth not in the house for ever; the son abideth for ever.
If therefore the Son make you free, ye will be free indeed.
I know that ye are Abraham’s offspring; but ye seek to kill me, because my word is not received within you.
I speak what I have seen with the Father; and ye accordingly do what ye have seen with your father.
They answered and said to him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith to them, If ye were Abraham’s children, ye would do the works of Abraham.
But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath spoken to you the truth, which I heard from God; this did not Abraham.
Ye do the works of your father. They said to him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, God.
Jesus said to them, If God were your father, ye would love me; for from God I proceeded forth and am come; neither came I of myself, but he sent me.
Why do ye not understand my language? It is because ye cannot listen to my word.
Ye are of your father the Devil, and what your father desireth ye are ready to do. He was a murderer from the beginning; and he abideth not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh from his own nature; for he is a liar, and the father of it.
But because I speak the truth, ye believe me not.
Which of you convicteth me of sin? If I speak truth, Why do ye not believe me?
He that is of God heareth God’s words; for this cause ye do not hear, because ye are not of God.
The Jews answered and said to him, Say we not well, that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a demon?
Jesus answered, I have not a demon, but I honor my Father, and ye dishonor me.
But I seek not my own glory; there is one that seeketh and judgeth.
Truly, truly do I say to you, If any one keep my word, he will never see death.
The Jews said to him, Now we know that thou hast a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If any one keep my word, he will never taste of death.
Art thou greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets also died. Whom dost thou make thyself?
Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father that glorifieth me, of whom ye say, He is our God:
yet ye know him not; but I know him. And if I should say, I know him not, I should be a liar like you. But I know him, and keep his word.
Your father Abraham exulted that he might see my day; and he saw it, and was glad.
The Jews therefore said to him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?
Jesus said to them, Truly, truly do I say to you, From before Abraham was, I have been.
They therefore took up stones to throw at him; but Jesus concealed himself, and went out of the temple.