Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip.
For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and if every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward,
how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by those who heard Him;
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with different kinds of miracles and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to His own will?
For He has not put in subjection to the angels the world to come, of which we speak.
But one testified in a certain place, saying, "What is man, that You are mindful of him; or the son of man, that You visit him?
You have made him a little lower than the angels. You crowned him with glory and honor and set him over the works of Your hands.
You have subjected all things under his feet." For in order that He put all things under him, He did not leave anything not subjected. But now we do not see all things having been put under him.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that He by the grace of God should taste death for every son.
For it became Him, for whom are all things and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons into glory, to perfect the Captain of their salvation through sufferings.
For both He who sanctifies and they who are sanctified are all of One, for which cause He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
saying, "I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the assembly I will sing praise to You."
And again, "I will put My trust in Him." And again, "Behold Me and the children whom God has given Me."
Since then the children have partaken of flesh and blood, He also Himself likewise partook of the same; that through death He might destroy him who had the power of death (that is, the Devil),
and deliver those who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
For truly He did not take the nature of angels, but He took hold of the seed of Abraham.
Therefore in all things it behoved him to be made like His brothers, that He might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of His people.
For in that He Himself has suffered, having been tempted, He is able to rescue those who have been tempted.