Then scholars and Pharisees from Jerusalem come to Jesus, saying,
Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.
And having answered, he said to them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God, because of your tradition?
For God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and thy mother, and, He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him perish in death.
But ye say, Whoever may say to the father or the mother, Whatever thou might have benefited from me is an offering.
And he will, no, not honor his father or mother. And ye have annulled the command of God because of your tradition.
Ye hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy about you, saying,
This people comes near me with their mouth, and honors me with their lips, but their heart is far distant from me.
And in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.
And having called in the multitude, he said to them, Hear and understand.
Not that which enters into the mouth defiles the man, but that which comes out of the mouth, this defiles the man.
Then having come near, his disciples said to him, Know thou that the Pharisees were offended when they heard the saying?
But having answered, he said, Every plant that my heavenly Father did not plant, will be uprooted.
Leave them. They are blind leaders of blind men, and if a blind man leads a blind man, both will fall into a ditch.
And having answered, Peter said to him, Explain this parable to us.
And Jesus said, Are ye also still without understanding?
Do ye not yet understand, that everything entering into the mouth goes into the belly, and is cast out into a toilet?
But the things coming out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and those things defile the man.
For from the heart comes forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessings, revilings.
These are things defiling the man. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man.
And having gone out from there, Jesus departed into the regions of Tyre and Sidon.
And behold, a Canaanite woman having come out from those regions, cried out to him, saying, Be merciful to me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously demon-possessed.
But he answered her not a word. And his disciples having approached, they besought him, saying, Send her away, because she cries out behind us.
But having answered, he said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
But having come, she worshiped him, saying, Lord, help me.
And having answered, he said, It is not right to take the children's bread and cast it to the house dogs.
But she said, Yes, Lord, for even the house dogs eat of the crumbs that fall from the table of their masters.
Then Jesus having answered, said to her, O woman, great is thy faith. Be it done for thee as thou desire. And her daughter was healed from that hour.
And having departed from there, Jesus came near the sea of Galilee. And having gone up onto the mountain, he sat there.
And many multitudes came to him, having with them the lame, blind, mute, crippled, and many others. And they placed them beside Jesus' feet, and he healed them,
so as for the multitudes to marvel seeing the mute speaking, the maimed healthy, and the lame walking, and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel.
And Jesus having summoned his disciples, he said, I feel compassion toward the multitude because they continue with me now three days and do not have what they might eat. And I do not want to dismiss them without food, lest they might faint on the way.
And his disciples say to him, From where are so many loaves for us in a wilderness so as to feed so great a multitude?
And Jesus says to them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes.
And he commanded the multitudes to sit down on the ground.
And after taking the seven loaves and the fishes, having expressed thanks, he broke in pieces, and gave to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes.
And they all ate and were filled. And they took up seven hampers full of the fragments that remained.
And those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children.
And having dismissed the multitudes, he entered into the boat, and came into the regions of Magdala.