Then went forth Dinah, the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob,—to see the daughters of the land.
And Shechem, son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the land, saw her,—so he took her, and lay with her, and humbled her.
And his soul clave unto Dinah, daughter of Jacob,—and he loved the young woman, and spake to the heart of the young woman.
Then spake Shechem unto Hamor his father, saying,—Take me this girl to wife!
Now, Jacob, had heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter, but, his sons, happened to be with his cattle in the field,—so Jacob kept quiet until they came in.
Then came forth Hamor, father of Shechem, unto Jacob,—to speak with him.
Now the sons of Jacob came in from the field as soon as they heard, and the men were grieved, and it was vexing to them exceedingly,—for, a disgraceful deed, had he done with Israel in lying with Jacob’s daughter, seeing that so, it should not be done.
So then Hamor spake with them saying—As for Shechem my son, his soul hath become attached to your daughter,—I pray you give her to him, to wife.
And exchange ye daughters with us in marriage,—your daughters, shall ye give to us, and our daughters, shall ye take to you.
And with us, shall ye dwell,—and, the land, shall be before you, tarry, and go through it, and get possessions therein.
Then said Shechem unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find favour in your eyes,—and, whatsoever ye may say unto me, will I give:
Heap on me, exceedingly, dowry and gift, and I will give, just as ye may say unto me,—but give me the young woman, to wife.
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and spake (because he had defiled Dinah their sister)—
and said unto them—We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to a man that is uncircumcised,—for a reproach, it would be to us.
Only herein, can we consent to you,—If ye will become like us, by circumcising to you every male,
then will we give our daughters to you, and your daughters, will we take to us,—and we will dwell with you, and become one people.
But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised, then will we take our daughter and be gone.
And their words looked fair in the eyes of Hamor,—and in the eyes of Shechem, Hamor’s son;
and the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob’s daughter,—he, moreover being more honourable than all the house of his father.
So Hamor entered with Shechem his son into the gate of their city,—and they spake unto the men of their city, saying:
As for these men, in peace, they are with us—let them therefore dwell in the land and go through it, for, the land, lo! it is roomy on both hands before them,—their daughters, let us take to us for wives, and our daughters, let us give to them.
Only herein, will the men consent to us, to dwell with us, to become one people,—If we circumcise to us every male, even as they are circumcised.
Their herds and their substance, and all their beasts, shall they, not be, ours? Only, we must consent to them, that they may dwell with us.
And they hearkened unto Hamor, and unto Shechem his son, even all that were going forth out of the gate of his city,—and every male was circumcised, all that were going forth out of the gate of his city.
And it came to pass on the third day, when they were in pain, that two of the sons of Jacob Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brothers, took each man his sword, and came in upon the city, boldly,—and slew every, male;
Hamor also, and Shechem his son, slew they with the edge of the sword,—and took Dinah out of the house of Shechem, and came forth,
The sons of Jacob, came in upon the slain and plundered the city,—because they had defiled their sister:
their flocks, and their herds and their asses,—and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field, they took;
and all their wealth and all their little ones, and their women, took they captive, and seized as plunder,—even all that was in their houses.
Then said Jacob unto Simeon and unto Levi—Ye have troubled me by making me odious among them that dwell in the land, among the Canaanites, and among the Perizzites,—I, having only men that may be counted, they will gather themselves, together against me and smite me,—and I shall be destroyed both I and my house.
And they said,—As with a harlot, was he to deal with our sister.