Thou therefore, my child, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus;
and the things which thou didst hear from me before many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, such as will be able to teach others also.
Endure hardship with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
No one serving as a soldier entangleth himself with the affairs of life, that he may please him who chose him to be a soldier.
And if a man contendeth in the games, he is not crowned, unless he contendeth lawfully.
The husbandman that laboreth must be the first partaker of the fruits.
Understand what I say; for the Lord will give thee apprehension in all things.
Bear in mind Jesus Christ of the seed of David, as raised from the dead, according to my gospel;
in which I suffer hardship even unto bonds as an evil-doer; but the word of God is not bound.
For this cause I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus, with everlasting glory.
True is the saying: for if we died with him, we shall also live with him;
if we endure, we shall also reign with him; if we deny him, he also will deny us;
if we are faithless, he remaineth faithful; for he cannot deny himself.
Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord not to carry on a strife of words, to no useful purpose, but rather to the subverting of the hearers.
Study to present thyself approved unto God, a workman not ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.
But shun the profane babblings; for they will go on to a higher degree of ungodliness;
and their word will eat as doth a canker; of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus,
who have erred concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection hath already taken place, and overthrow the faith of some.
Nevertheless God’s firm foundation standeth, having this seal, "The Lord knoweth them that are his;" and, "Let every one that nameth the name of the Lord depart from iniquity."
But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also wooden and earthen ones; and some for honor, and some for dishonor.
If then any one shall purge himself from these, he will be a vessel for honor, hallowed, useful for the householder, prepared for every good work.
But flee youthful lusts, and follow righteousness, faith, love, peace, with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
But the foolish and ignorant questionings avoid, knowing that they gender quarrels;
and a servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, apt in teaching, patient of wrong,
in meekness admonishing those that oppose themselves; if haply God may give them repentance to attain the full knowledge of the truth,
and they may awake to their senses out of the snare of the Devil, by whom they have been taken captive to do his will.