And it came to pass that he traveled through, by city and village in succession, announcing and preaching the good news of the kingdom of God, and the twelve men with him,
and certain women who were healed from evil spirits and infirmities: Mary who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,
and Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many other women who served them from the things they possessed.
And when a large multitude gathered together, and those coming to him from each city, he spoke by a parable.
The man who sows went forth to sow his seed. And during his sowing, some fell by the way, and it was trampled, and the birds of the sky devoured it.
And another fell on the rock, and having grown, it withered away because of not having moisture.
And another fell amidst the thorns, and having grown together, the thorns choked it.
And another fell on the good ground, and having grown it produced fruit a hundredfold. As he said these things, he called out, He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
And his disciples questioned him, saying, What is this parable?
And he said, To you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the others in parables, so that seeing they would not see, and hearing they would not understand.
Now the parable is this. The seed is the word of God.
And those by the way are those who hear, then the devil comes, and takes away the word from their heart, lest having believed, they would be saved.
And those on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy. And these have no root, who believe for a time, and withdraw in time of trial.
And that which fell in the thorns, these are those who heard, and as they go they are choked by cares and wealth and pleasures of life, and do not bring to maturity.
But those in the good ground, these are those who in an good and right heart, having heard the word, hold it firm, and bring forth fruit in perseverance.
And no man, having lit a lamp, covers it with a container, or places it under a bed, but places it on a lampstand, so that those who enter in may see the light.
For there is no secret that will not become visible, nor hid, that will not be known and come to be visible.
Notice therefore how ye hear. For whoever has, to him will be given, and whoever has not, even what he seems to have will be taken from him.
And his mother and brothers came to him, and they could not come near him because of the crowd.
And it was reported to him, saying, Thy mother and thy brothers stand outside, desiring to see thee.
But having answered, he said to them, My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.
Now it came to pass on one of those days, that he entered into a boat, also his disciples. And he said to them, Let us pass through to the other side of the lake. And they launched forth,
but as they sailed he began to asleep. And a storm of wind came down on the lake, and they were filling up, and were in peril.
And having approached, they awoke him, saying, Master, master, we are perishing. And having risen, he rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and it became calm.
And he said to them, Where is your faith? And having feared, they wondered, saying to each other, Who then is this man, that he commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him?
And they sailed toward the country of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee.
And when he came forth upon the land, a certain man met him out of the city, who had demons of a considerable time. And he wore no clothing, and did not dwell in a house, but in the sepulchers.
And when he saw Jesus, having cried out, he fell down before him. And in a great voice he said, What is with me and with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the Most High God? I beseech thee, do not torment me.
For he commanded the unclean spirit to come out from the man, for many times it had seized him. And he was bound with chains and shackles, and guarded. And breaking the bonds apart, he was driven by the demon into the desolate regions.
And Jesus demanded him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion, because many demons were entered into him.
And they entreated him that he would not command them to go out into the abyss.
Now a herd of considerable swine was there feeding on the mountain, and they implored him that he would allow them to enter into those. And he allowed them.
And the demons having come out from the man, they entered into the swine. And the herd stampeded down the slope into the lake, and were drowned.
And when those who tended them saw what happened, they fled and reported it in the city and in the fields.
And they came out to see what happened. And they came to Jesus, and found the man, from whom the demons had gone out, sitting near the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid.
And also those who saw it informed them how the man who was demon-possessed was saved.
And the whole multitude of the region around the Gadarenes besought him to depart from them, because they were gripped by great fear. And he, having embarked into the boat, returned.
But the man from whom the demons had gone out begged him to be with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying,
Return to thy house, and relate everything God did for thee. And he departed, proclaiming throughout the whole city how many things Jesus did for him.
And it came to pass during Jesus returning, the multitude welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.
And behold, there came a man whose name was Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue. And having fallen down near Jesus' feet, he besought him to come into his house,
because there was with him an only begotten daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. But during his going the multitudes thronged him.
And a woman being with an issue of blood for twelve years, who, although she spent her entire living on physicians, was unable to be healed by any,
having come from behind, she touched the border of his garment. And immediately the issue of her blood stayed.
And Jesus said, Who is he who touched me? But when they all denied, Peter and those with him, said, Master, the multitudes come together and crowd thee, and thou say, Who is he who touched me?
But Jesus said, Who touched me? For I perceived power having gone forth from me.
And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling. And having fallen down before him, she declared to him in the presence of all the people for what reason she touched him, and how she was healed immediately.
And he said to her, Cheer up, Daughter. Thy faith has healed thee. Go in peace.
While he still spoke, some man comes from the synagogue ruler, saying to him, Thy daughter has died. Do not trouble the teacher.
But having heard it, Jesus answered him, saying, Fear not, only believe and she will be saved.
And when he came to the house, he did not allow any man to enter in except Peter and John and James, and the father of the girl and the mother.
And all were weeping and bewailing her. But he said, Weep not. She did not die, but sleeps.
And they ridiculed him, knowing that she died.
But having sent them all away outside, having taken her by the hand, he called out, saying, Girl, awake.
And her spirit returned, and she rose up immediately. And he commanded to give her to eat.
And her parents were amazed, but he ordered them to tell no man that which happened.