And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel that they bring to you pure olive oil, beaten, for the light, to cause the lamps to burn continually.
Aaron shall order it from evening until the morning before the LORD forever outside the veil of the testimony, in the tabernacle of the congregation. It shall be a statute forever in your generations.
He shall order the lamps on the pure lampstand before the LORD forever.
And you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes of it. Two-tenth parts shall be in one cake.
And you shall set them in two rows, six on a row, on the pure table before the LORD.
And you shall put pure frankincense on each row, so that it may be on the bread for a memorial, a fire offering to the LORD.
Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the LORD forever, from the sons of Israel by an everlasting covenant.
And it shall be Aaron's and his sons'. And they shall eat it in the holy place, for it is most holy to him of the fire offerings of the LORD, by a never-ending statute.
And the son of a woman of Israel, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the sons of Israel. And this son of the woman of Israel and a man of Israel struggled together in the camp.
And the son of the woman of Israel blasphemed the name of the LORD, and cursed. And they brought him to Moses. (And his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.)
And they put him under guard, so that the mind of the LORD might be declared to them.
And the LORD spoke to Moses saying,
Bring forth the despiser outside the camp. And let all that heard lay their hands on his head. Let all the congregation stone him.
And you shall speak to the sons of Israel saying, Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin.
And he that blasphemes the Name of the LORD shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall surely stone him. And the stranger as well, even as he that is born in the land; when he blasphemes the Name, he shall be put to death.
And he who kills any man shall surely be put to death.
And he who kills an animal shall make it good, animal for animal.
And if a man causes a blemish in his neighbor, as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
break for break, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. As he has caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be done to him.
And he who kills an animal shall restore it. And he who kills a man shall be put to death.
One judgment shall be for you whether an alien or a native; for I am the LORD your God.
And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel that they should bring the despiser outside the camp, and stone him with stones. And the sons of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.