And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel, and they shall bring to you pure olive oil, beaten, for the light, to cause a light to burn continually.
Outside the veil of the testimony in the tabernacle of the congregation Aaron shall arrange it from evening until morning before Jehovah continually, a perpetual statute throughout your generations.
He shall arrange the lamps on the pure lampstand before Jehovah continually.
And you shall take flour, and shall bake twelve cakes with it; two tenths shall be in the one cake.
And you shall set them in two rows, six on a row on the pure table before Jehovah.
And you shall put pure frankincense on the row, and it shall be the bread of a memorial, a fire offering to Jehovah.
On each sabbath day he shall arrange it before Jehovah continually, from the sons of Israel, a never ending covenant.
And it shall belong to Aaron and to his sons, and they shall eat it in the sanctuary, for it is most holy to him, from the fire offerings of Jehovah, a never ending statute.
And the son of an Israelite woman, and a son of an Egyptian man, went out among the sons of Israel. And the son of the woman of Israel and a man of Israel struggled together in the camp.
And the son of the woman of Israel blasphemed the Name, and cursed. And they brought him in to Moses; and his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
And they put him under guard, that it might be declared to them at the mouth of Jehovah.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Bring out the reviler to the outside of the camp. And all those who heard shall lay their hands on his head, and all the congregation shall stone him.
And you shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, When any man curses his God then he shall bear his sin.
And he who blasphemes the name of Jehovah shall certainly be put to death. All the congregation shall certainly cast stones at him. As to the alien, so to a native, when he blasphemes the Name, he is to be put to death.
And a man, when he strikes the soul from any man, he shall surely be put to death.
And he who smites an animal to death shall make it good, soul for soul.
And when a man causes a blemish in his neighbor, as he has done, so it shall be done to him;
break for break, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. As he has caused a blemish in a man, so it shall be done to him.
And he who smites an animal to death shall repay it; and he who smites a man to death shall be put to death.
One judgment shall be for you whether an alien or a native; for I am Jehovah your God.
And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, and they brought the reviler to the outside of the camp and stoned him with stones. And the sons of Israel did as Jehovah had commanded Moses.