For the law having a shadow of the good things that are coming, not the same substance of the events, with the same sacrifices that are offered continually each year, they are never able to fully perfect those who are approaching.
Otherwise would they not have ceased being offered, because of those who worship, once having been cleansed, to have no further conscience of sins?
But in them is a reminder of sins each year.
For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
Therefore when he comes into the world, he says, Sacrifice and offering thou did not desire, but thou prepared for me a body.
In whole burnt offerings, and for sin thou were not pleased.
Then I said, Lo, I come (in the volume of a book it is written about me) to do thy will, O God,
saying above, Sacrifice and offering and whole burnt offerings and for sin thou did not desire, nor were thou pleased with things that are offered according to the law.
Then he said, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He takes away the first, so that he may establish the second.
By which will we are sanctified through the one time offering of the body of Jesus Christ.
And indeed every priest stands daily serving and offering the same sacrifices often, which can never take away sins.
But this man, having offered one sacrifice on behalf of sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God,
waiting henceforth until his enemies are placed a footstool of his feet.
For by one offering he has fully perfected forever those being sanctified.
And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, after indeed foretelling,
This is the covenant that I will ordain with them after those days, says the Lord, giving my laws on their hearts, and on their minds I will write them,
and, Their sins and their lawlessness I will, no, not further remember.
Now where there is remission of these, there is no more offering for sin.
Having therefore, brothers, boldness for entrance into the holy things by the blood of Jesus,
which he inaugurated for us, a new and living way through the curtain, that is, his flesh,
and a great priest over the house of God,
let us approach with a true heart in full assurance of faith, our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our body washed in pure water.
Let us hold firm the affirmation of the hope unwavering, for he who promised is faithful.
And let us examine each other for provocation of love and good works.
Not forsaking the assembling together of ourselves, as is the habit of some, but exhorting, and so much the more as long as ye see the day approaching.
For when we sin willfully after taking the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a sacrifice for sins,
but a certain fearful expectation of judgment and of fire, a fervor that is going to devour the opposition.
Any man who has disregarded the law of Moses dies without mercies from two or three witnesses.
By how much worse punishment do ye think he will deserve who has trampled the Son of God, and who considered profane the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and who treated the Spirit of grace contemptuously?
For we know him who said, Vengeance is for me, I will repay, says the Lord. And again, The Lord will judge his people.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But remember the former days, in which, after being enlightened, ye endured a great contest of sufferings,
partly made a spectacle, both by reviling and afflictions, and partly having become companions of those so treated.
For ye were both compassionate about my bonds, and ye accepted with joy the plundering of your possessions, knowing yourselves to have a superior and an enduring existence in the heavens.
Therefore do not throw off your boldness, which has great recompense of reward.
For ye have need of perseverance, so that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For yet a very little while, he who is coming will come, and will not delay.
But the righteous man will live from faith, and if he should withdraw, my soul is not pleased with him.
But we are not of retreat for destruction, but of faith for the preservation of the soul.