And it happened when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers and the singers and the Levites were chosen,
I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace, charge over Jerusalem. For he was a faithful man, and feared God above many.
And I said to them, Do not let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot. And while they stand by, let them shut and bar the doors. And set guards from the people of Jerusalem, each one in his watch, and each one to be across from his house.
And the city was large and great, but the people in it were few, and the houses not built.
And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, so that they might be counted by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of those who came up at the first. And I found written in it:
These are the sons of the province who went up out of the captivity, of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away. And they came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one to his city,
and came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
The sons of Parosh, two thousand and seventy-two.
The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two.
The sons of Arah, six hundred and fifty-two.
The sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand, eight hundred and eighteen.
The sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four.
The sons of Zattu, eight hundred and forty-five.
The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.
The sons of Binnui, six hundred and forty-eight.
The sons of Bebai, six hundred and twenty-eight.
The sons of Azgad, two thousand three hundred and twenty-two.
The sons of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty-seven.
The sons of Bigvai, two thousand and sixty-seven.
The sons of Adin, six hundred and fifty-five.
The sons of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
The sons of Hashum, three hundred and twenty-eight.
The sons of Bezai, three hundred and twenty-four.
The sons of Hariph, a hundred and twelve.
The sons of Gibeon, ninety-five.
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, a hundred and eighty-eight.
The men of Anathoth, a hundred and twenty-eight.
The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty-two.
The men of Kirjath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty-three.
The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty-one.
The men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty-two.
The men of Bethel and Ai, a hundred and twenty-three.
The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two.
The sons of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four.
The sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
The sons of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five.
The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-one.
The sons of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.
The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three.
The sons of Immer, a thousand and fifty-two.
The sons of Pashur, a thousand two hundred and forty-seven.
The sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the sons of Hodevah, seventy-four.
The singers: the sons of Asaph, a hundred and forty-eight.
The gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, and the sons of Shobai, a hundred and thirty-eight.
The temple slaves: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hashupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
the sons of Keros, the sons of Sia, the sons of Padon,
the sons of Lebana, the sons of Hagaba, the sons of Shalmai,
the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar,
the sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda,
the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah,
the sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephishesim,
the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
the sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Tamah,
the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha.
The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida,
the sons of Jaala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth of Zebaim, the sons of Amon.
All the temple-slaves, and the sons of Solomon's servants, three hundred and ninety-two.
And these were they who went up from Tel-melah, Tel-haresha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer. But they could not show their father's house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel:
The sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred and forty-two.
And of the priests: the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Koz, the sons of Barzillai, who took one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name.
These sought their register among those who were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found. Therefore they were put out, as defiled from the priesthood.
And the governor said to them that they should not eat of the holy things until there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
All the congregation together was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty,
besides their manservants and their maidservants; these were seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven. And they had two hundred and forty-five singing men and singing women.
Their horses were seven hundred and thirty-six; their mules, two hundred and forty-five;
camels, four hundred and thirty-five; and six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses.
And some of the chiefs of the fathers gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury a thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, and five hundred and thirty priest's garments.
And some of the chiefs of the fathers gave to the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand two hundred minas of silver.
And what the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold and two thousand minas of silver, and sixty-seven priests' garments.
And the priests, and the Levites, and the gatekeepers, and the singers, and some of the people, and the temple slaves, and all Israel, lived in their cities. And when the seventh month came, the sons of Israel were in their cities.