And He said to them, Truly I say to you that there are some of those who stand here who shall not taste of death until they see the kingdom of God come with power.
And after six days Jesus took Peter and James and John and led them up into a high mountain, apart by themselves. And He was transfigured before them.
And His clothing became shining, exceedingly white as snow such as no fuller on earth could whiten them.
And Elijah with Moses was seen by them, and they were talking with Jesus.
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. And let us make three tabernacles, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
For he did not know what to say, for they were very much afraid.
And there was a cloud that overshadowed them. And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is My beloved Son. Hear Him.
And suddenly, looking around, they did not see anyone any more, except Jesus alone with themselves.
And as they came down from the mountain, He commanded them that they should tell no one the things that they had seen until the Son of man had risen from the dead.
And they kept that saying within themselves, debating with one another what the rising from the dead is.
And they asked Him, saying, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must first come?
And He answered and told them, Elijah truly does come first and restores all things. And how has it been written of the Son of man that He should suffer many things and be despised?
But I say to you that Elijah has indeed come, and they have done to him whatever they desired, as it is written of him.
And coming to His disciples, He saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them.
And immediately all the crowd, seeing Him, were greatly amazed, and they were running to Him to greet Him.
And He asked the scribes, What are you discussing with them?
And one of the crowd answered and said, Teacher, I have brought my son who has a dumb spirit to You.
And wherever he seizes him, he dashes him. And he foams and gnashes his teeth and pines away. And I spoke to Your disciples that they should cast him out, and they could not.
He answered him and said, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to Me!
And they brought him to Him. And when he saw Him, the spirit immediately convulsed him. And he fell on the ground and wallowed, foaming.
And He asked his father, How long ago has it been since this came to him? And he said, From childhood.
And oftentimes it has cast him into the fire and into the waters to destroy him. But if You can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.
Jesus said to him, If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes.
And immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief.
And seeing that a crowd is running together, He rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him, Dumb and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter no more into him!
And the spirit cried out, throwing him into convulsions, and came out of him. And he was like one dead, so that many said, He is dead.
But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose.
And He entering into a house, His disciples asked Him privately, Why could we not cast him out?
And He said to them, This kind can come out by nothing except by prayer and fasting.
And going out from there, they passed through Galilee. And He desired that no one should know.
For He taught His disciples and said to them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him. And after He is killed, He shall rise the third day.
But they did not understand that saying and were afraid to ask Him.
And He came to Capernaum. And being in the house, He asked them, What was it that you disputed among yourselves in the way?
But they were silent. For in the way they had disputed among themselves who was the greatest.
And He sat down and called the Twelve and said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all.
And He took a child, and embraced it, and set him in their midst. And He said to them,
Whoever receives one of such children on My name receives Me. And whoever receives Me does not only receives Me, but Him who sent Me.
And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out demons in Your name, and he does not follow us. And we forbade him, because he does not follow us.
But Jesus said, Do not forbid him. For there is no one who shall do a work of power in My name who can lightly speak evil of Me.
For he who is not against us is for us.
For whoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in My name, because you belong to Christ, truly I say to you, he shall not lose his reward.
And whoever shall offend one of these little ones who believe in Me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged around his neck and he were cast into the sea.
And if your hand offends you, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life maimed than to have two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched
where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if your foot offends you, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life lame than to have two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched
where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if your eye offends you, pluck it out. It is better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than to have two eyes to be cast into hell fire
where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched.
For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt.
Salt is good; but if the salt becomes saltless, with what will you season? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.