Do not rebuke an elderly man, but entreat him as a father; the younger men, as brothers:
the elder women, as mothers; the younger women, as sisters, with all purity.
Honor widows that are widows indeed.
But if any widow has children or grand-children, let them learn first to be dutiful to their own family, and to requite their parents; for that is good and acceptable in the sight of God.
But she that is a widow indeed, and left alone, trusts in God, and continues in supplications and prayers night and day.
But she that lives voluptuously, is dead while she lives.
These things also give in charge, that they may be blameless.
And if any one provides not for his own, and especially for those of his own house hold, he has denied the faith, and is worse than an unbeliever.
Let a widow be put on the list, if she is not under sixty years, having been the wife of one man,
having a good reputation for good works; if she has borne children, if she has entertained strangers, if she has washed the saints feet, if she has relieved the afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work.
But the younger widows reject: for when they become wanton against the Christ, they desire to marry,
incurring condemnation, because they have set aside their former obligation.
At the same time, also, they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also, and busybodies, speaking things which are not proper.
I will, therefore, that the younger widows marry, bear children, manage the house, and thus give no occasion to the adversaries to speak reproachfully.
For some have already turned aside after Satan.
If any believing man or woman has widows, let him or her relieve them, and let not the church be burdened, that it may relieve those who are widows indeed.
Let the elders who rule well, be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in word and teaching.
For the scripture says: You shall not muzzle the ox that treads out the grain; and, The laborer is worthy of his hire.
Receive not an accusation against an old man, unless before two or three witnesses.
Those who sin rebuke before all, that the rest also may fear.
I charge you before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the elect angels, that you observe these things without prejudice, and that you do nothing by partiality.
Lay hands hastily on no man, nor be partaker of other men’s sins: keep yourself pure.
Drink water no longer, but use a little wine for your stomach’s sake, and your frequent infirmities.
Some men’s sins are manifest beforehand, going before to judgment. Some persons, however, they follow after.
Likewise, also, the good works of some are manifest beforehand; and those which are otherwise can not be concealed.