And Joseph was not able to control himself in regard to those standing beside him. And he called out, Cause every man to go out from me. And no man stood before him as Joseph was making himself known to his brothers.
And he wept aloud; and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard.
And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? And his brothers were not able to answer him, for they trembled before him.
And Joseph said to his brothers, Now come near to me And they came near. And he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt.
And now do not be grieved, and let no anger be in your eyes because you sold me here for God sent me before you to save life.
For the famine has been in the midst of the land for two years. And there are still five years in which no plowing and harvest will be .
And God sent me before you to put a remnant in the land for you, and to keep alive for you a great deliverance.
And now you did not send me here, but God. And He has placed me for a father to Pharaoh, and for a lord in all his house, and a ruler in all the land of Egypt.
Hurry and go up to my father, and say to him, So says your son Joseph, God has placed me as a lord to all Egypt. Come down to me, do not delay.
And you shall live in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near to me, you and your sons and sons of your sons, and your flocks, and your herds, and all you have.
And I will nourish you there, for there are still five years of famine; lest you be made poor, you and your house and all which belong to you.
And behold, your eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that my mouth is speaking to you.
And you tell my father of all my honor in Egypt, and all that you have seen. And hurry and bring down my father here.
And he fell on the neck of his brother Benjamin and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck.
And he kissed all his brothers, and wept on them. And afterwards his brothers spoke with him.
And the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, The brothers of Joseph have come. And it was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants.
Pharaoh said to Joseph, Say to your brothers, Do this; load your animals and depart; go to the land of Canaan.
And take your father, and your houses, and come to me. And I will give to you the good of the land of Egypt; and you shall eat the fat of the land.
And you are commanded; you do this: Take for yourselves wagons from the land of Egypt, for your little ones, and for your wives. And take your father and come.
And your eye, let it have no regard for your vessels, for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours.
And the sons of Israel did so. And Joseph gave wagons to them according to the mouth of Pharaoh, and he gave provision to them for the way.
He gave to all of them, to each one, changes of clothing. And he gave to Benjamin three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of clothing.
And to his father he sent this: ten asses bearing the good things of Egypt, and ten she-asses bearing grain, and bread, and food for his father for the way.
And he sent his brothers away; and they went. And he said to them, Do not quarrel along the way.
And they went up from Egypt and came into the land of Canaan, to their father Jacob.
And they told him, saying, Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler in all the land of Egypt. And his heart froze up, for he did not believe them.
And they spoke to him all Joseph's words which he had spoken to them. And he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him; and the spirit of their father Jacob revived.
And Israel said, It is enough! My son Joseph is alive; I will go and see him before I die.