But, as they were speaking unto the people, the High-priests and the Captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,
Being tired out because of their teaching the people, and announcing, in Jesus, the resurrection from among the dead;
And they thrust on them their hands, and put them in custody for the morrow, for it was evening, already.
Howbeit, many of them that heard the word, believed; and the number of the men became about five thousand.
And it came to pass, upon the morrow, that there were gathered together of them, the rulers and the elders and the scribes, in Jerusalem;
Also Annas, the high-priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of high-priestly descent;—
And, setting them in the midst, they began to enquire—In what manner of power, or in what manner of name, did, ye, do this?
Then Peter, filled with Holy Spirit, said unto them—Ye rulers of the people, and elders!
If, we, this day, are to be examined for doing good to a sick man,—in whom, this, man hath been made well,
Be it known unto you all, and unto all the people of Israel: that, in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene,—whom, ye, crucified, whom, God, raised from among the dead, in him, doth, this man stand by, in your presence, whole.
This, is the stone, set at nought by you the builders, which became the head of the corner;
And there is in no one else, salvation, for, neither is there any other name, under heaven, which hath been set forth among men, in which we must needs be saved.
And, looking at Peter’s boldness of speech, and John’s, and having discovered that they were unlettered and obscure men, they began to marvel, recognising them also, that they had been with Jesus;
Seeing, the man also standing, with them, even the [man] who had been cured, they had nothing wherewith to contradict.
Howbeit, ordering them to go forth outside the high-council, they began to confer one with another,
Saying—What are we to do with these men? For, indeed, that a notable sign hath come to pass through their means, unto all who are dwelling in Jerusalem, is manifest, and we cannot deny [it] !
Nevertheless, lest it further spread abroad among the people, let us charge them with threats, to be no more speaking upon this name, to any soul of man.
And, calling them, they gave them the sweeping charge,—not to be sounding aloud, nor even to be teaching, upon the name of Jesus.
But, Peter and John, answering, said unto them—Whether it be right in presence of God, unto you, to be hearkening, rather than unto God, judge!
For, we, cannot but be speaking the things which we have seen and heard.
They, however, further charging them with threats, let them go, finding nothing as to how they might chastise them, on account of the people; because, all, were glorifying God for that which had come to pass;—
For, more than forty years old, was the man, upon whom had taken place, this healing sign.
But, when they had been let go, they came unto their own [friends], and told as many things as, unto them, the High-priests and Elders, had said.
And, they, having heard, with one accord, uplifted voice unto God, and said—O Sovereign! Thou, art he that made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all things that are herein:
Who, by our father, through means of the Holy Spirit, even by the mouth of David thy servant, said—Unto what end did nations rage, and, peoples, busy themselves with empty things?
The kings of the earth stationed themselves, and, the rulers, were gathered together, with one intent, against the Lord, and against his Christ.
For they were gathered together, of a truth, in this city, against thy holy servant Jesus, whom thou hadst anointed,—both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with them of the nations, and peoples of Israel;—
To do whatsoever, thy hand and thy counsel, marked out beforehand to come to pass.
As to the present things, then, O Lord,—look upon their threats, and grant unto thy servants, with all freedom of utterance, to be speaking thy word,
By stretching forth thy hand for healing, and by the coming to pass of both signs and wonders, through the name of thy holy servant Jesus.
And, when they had made supplication, the place was shaken in which they were gathered together, and they were filled, one and all, with the Holy Spirit, and began speaking the word of God with freedom of utterance.
And, the throng of them that believed, had one heart and soul, and not so much as one was saying that, aught of his goods, was, his own, but they had all things common.
And, with great power, were the apostles giving forth their witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus; great favour also was upon them all.
For there was not so much as anyone, lacking, among them; for, as many as were possessors of lands or houses, selling them, were bringing the prices of the things that were being sold,
And laying them at the feet of the Apostles, while on the other hand they were distributing unto each one, in so far as any one had, need.
And, Joseph, who had been surnamed Barnabas by the Apostles, which is to be translated Son of Exhortation,—a Levite, a Cyprian by nation,
Having a field, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the feet of the Apostles.