AND after these things I heard a loud sound as of a vast multitude in heaven, saying, Hallelujah: Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power be to the Lord our God:
because true and righteous are his judgments; for he hath judged the great harlot, that corrupted the earth with her whoredom, and hath avenged the blood of his servants shed by her hand.
And the second time they said, Hallelujah. And her smoke ascended up for ever and ever.
And the four and twenty presbyters fell prostrate, and the four living beings, and they worshipped God who was seated on the throne, saying, Amen; Hallelujah.
And there came a voice out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye servants of his, and all that fear him, both the small and the great.
And I heard as it were the voice of a vast multitude, and as the noise of many waters, and as the roar of mighty thunderings, saying, Hallelujah: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.
Let us rejoice and exult, and give him glory: because the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his bride hath made herself ready.
And it was granted her to be clothed in fine linen, clean and splendid: for the fine linen is the emblem of the righteousness of the saints.
And he said to me, Write, Blessed are they that are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true sayings of God.
And I fell down before his feet to worship him: and he said unto me, See thou dost not so: I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy brethren who hold the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the spirit of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus.
And I saw heaven opened, and lo a white horse; and he that sat upon it, is called Faithful and True, and with righteousness doth he judge and make war.
And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and upon his head were many diadems; and he hath a name inscribed which no man knoweth but himself.
And he was clothed in a garment dipt in blood, and his name is styled the word of God.
And the hosts which are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
And out of his mouth proceeded a sharp sword, that therewith he may smite the heathen and he will rule them with an iron sceptre: and he will tread the wine-press of the fury and of the wrath of God Almighty.
And he hath upon his vesture and upon his thigh this name written, king of kings, and lord of lords.
And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls which fly in the midst of heaven, Come hither and flock together unto the supper of the great God:
that ye may eat the carcasses of kings, and the carcasses of military commanders, and the carcasses of mighty men, and the carcasses of horses, and of those who ride upon them, and the carcasses of all, freemen and slaves, both small and great.
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war with him that was sitting upon the horse, and with his army.
And the beast was seized upon, and with him the false prophet who performed the wonders before him, by which he deceived those who received the brand of the beast, and those who worshipped his image. They were both hurled alive into the lake of fire which burneth with brimstone.
And all the rest were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which issued from his mouth: and all the fowls were gorged with their carcasses.