Now king David was old and stricken in years, and they covered him with clothes, but he did not get warm.
Therefore his servants said to him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin. And let her stand before the king, and take care of him. And let her lie in thy bosom, that my lord the king may get warmth.
So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the borders of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king.
And the damsel was very fair. And she took care of the king, and ministered to him, but the king knew her not.
Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared chariots for him, and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why have thou done so? And he was also a very handsome man. And he was born after Absalom.
And he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest. And, following Adonijah, they helped him.
But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men who belonged to David, were not with Adonijah.
And Adonijah killed sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel. And he called all his brothers, the king's sons, and all the men of Judah, the king's servants.
But he did not call Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother.
Then Nathan spoke to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, saying, Have thou not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith reigns, and David our lord does not know it?
Now therefore come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel, that thou may save thine own life, and the life of thy son Solomon.
Go and get thee in to king David, and say to him, Did thou not, my lord, O king, swear to thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? Why then does Adonijah reign?
Behold, while thou yet talk there with the king, I also will come in after thee, and confirm thy words.
And Bathsheba went in to the king into the chamber. And the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to the king.
And Bathsheba bowed, and did obeisance to the king. And the king said, What do thou want?
And she said to him, My lord, thou swore by Jehovah thy God to thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.
And now, behold, Adonijah reigns, and thou, my lord the king, do not know it.
And he has slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the army, but he has not called Solomon thy servant.
And thou, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that thou should tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him.
Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be considered offenders.
And, lo, while she yet talked with the king, Nathan the prophet came in.
And they told the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And when he came in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground.
And Nathan said, My lord, O king, have thou said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
For he has gone down this day, and has slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the king's sons, and the captains of the army, and Abiathar the priest. And, behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and say, Live, king Adonijah.
But me, even me thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and thy servant Solomon, he has not called.
Is this thing done by my lord the king, and thou have not shown to thy servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?
Then king David answered and said, Call Bathsheba to me. And she came into the king's presence, and stood before the king.
And the king swore, and said, As Jehovah lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
truly as I swore to thee by Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead. Surely so I will do this day.
Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth, and did obeisance to the king, and said, Let my lord king David live forever.
And king David said, Call to me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king.
And the king said to them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon.
And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel. And blow ye the trumpet, and say, Live, king Solomon.
Then ye shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit upon my throne, for he shall be king in my stead. And I have appointed him to be prince over Israel and over Judah.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, and said, Truly. Jehovah, the God of my lord the king, say so too.
As Jehovah has been with my lord the king, even so be he with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord king David.
So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down, and caused Solomon to ride upon king David's mule, and brought him to Gihon.
And Zadok the priest took the horn of oil out of the tent, and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, Live, king Solomon.
And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth quivered with the sound of them.
And Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, Why is this noise of the city being in an uproar?
While he yet spoke, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came. And Adonijah said, Come in, for thou are a worthy man, and bring good news.
And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Truly our lord king David has made Solomon king.
And the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites. And they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule.
And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon. And they have come up from there rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This is the noise that ye have heard.
And also Solomon sits on the throne of the kingdom.
And moreover the king's servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, Thy God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and make his throne greater than thy throne. And the king bowed himself upon the bed.
And also thus said the king, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who has given one of my seed to sit on my throne this day, my eyes even seeing it.
And all the guests of Adonijah were afraid, and rose up, and every man went his way.
And Adonijah feared because of Solomon. And he arose, and went, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
And it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah fears king Solomon, for, lo, he has laid hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let king Solomon swear to me first that he will not kill his servant with the sword.
And Solomon said, If he shall show himself a worthy man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth, but if wickedness be found in him, he shall die.
So king Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and did obeisance to king Solomon. And Solomon said to him, Go to thy house.