Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations.
And say, So says the Lord Jehovah to Jerusalem, Your origin and your birth is of the land of Canaan. Your father was an Amorite, and your mother a Hittite.
And as for your birth, in the day you were born your navel was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you. And you were not salted, nor swaddled at all.
No eye pitied you, to do any of these to you, to have compassion on you. But you were thrown out into the open field, because your life was despised in the day that you were born.
And when I passed by you and saw you squirming in your blood, I said to you in your blood, Live! Yes, I said to you in your blood, Live!
I have caused you to multiply like the bud of the field, and you are grown, and you are great; and you come in the finest ornaments. Your breasts are formed, and hair is grown, yet you were naked and bare.
And I passed by you and looked on you, and, behold, your time was the time of love. And I spread my skirt over you and covered your nakedness. And I swore to you and entered into a covenant with you, says the Lord Jehovah. And you became Mine.
And I washed you with water; I washed away your blood from you, and I anointed you with oil.
I also clothed you with embroidered work, and I shod you with dugong sandals. And I wrapped you in fine linen, and I covered you with silk.
And I adorned you with ornaments, and I put bracelets on your hands and a chain on your neck.
And I put a ring on your nose, and earrings in your ears, and a beautiful crown on your head.
And you were adorned with gold and silver; and your clothing was of fine linen and silk and embroidered work. You ate fine flour and honey and oil; and you were exceedingly beautiful. And you advanced to regal estate.
And your name went out among the nations, because of your beauty; for it was perfect in My beauty, which I had put on you, says the Lord Jehovah.
But you trusted in your beauty, and played the harlot because of your name, and poured out your fornications on all who passed by; it was his.
And you took from your clothes and adorned your high places with different colors, and fornicated on them, such as had not come, nor shall be.
And you have taken beautiful things of My gold and of My silver, which I had given you, and made images of males, and fornicated with them.
And you took your embroidered dresses and covered them, and you have given to their face My oil and My incense.
Also My food which I gave you, fine flour and oil and honey with which I fed you, you have given it to their face for a soothing aroma. And it happened, says the Lord Jehovah.
And you have taken your sons and your daughters, whom you have borne to Me, and you gave these to them for food. Are your fornications small?
You have slaughtered My sons and gave them to cause these to pass through the fire for them.
And in all your hateful deeds and your fornications you have not remembered the days of your youth, when you were naked and bare, and squirming in your blood.
Woe, woe to you says the Lord Jehovah! For it happened after all your evil,
that you have also built yourself a mound, and you have made yourself a high place in every street.
You have built your high place at the head of every way, and have made your beauty to be despised, and have opened your feet to everyone who passed by, and have multiplied your fornications.
You have also whored with the Egyptians, your neighbors great of flesh, and have multiplied your fornications to provoke Me to anger.
And, behold, therefore I have stretched out My hand over you, and drew back your portion. And I gave you to the will of those who hate you, the daughters of the Philistines, who are ashamed of your wicked way.
You have whored with the Assyrians, without your being satisfied; yea, you whored and yet you were not satisfied.
And your whoredom is idolatry in the land of Canaan, to the Chaldean, and yet you were not satisfied with this.
How weak is your heart, says the Lord Jehovah, since you do all these, the work of a woman, an overbearing harlot;
in that you build your mound at the head of every way, and make your high place in every street. Yet you have not been as a harlot, scorning wages.
Like the adulterous wife, instead of her husband, she takes strangers.
They give a gift to all harlots, but you give your gifts to all your lovers, and bribe them to come to you from all around, for your fornication.
And in you was the opposite from those women in your fornications, since no one whores after you, and in your giving wages, and hire is not given to you. In this you are opposite.
Therefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Because your lewdness was poured out and your nakedness was bared in your fornications with your lovers, and with all the idols of your abominations, and by the blood of your sons whom you gave to them;
behold, therefore I will gather all your lovers, with whom you have been pleased, even all whom you loved, with all whom you have hated; I will even gather them against you from all around, and will uncover your nakedness to them, and they will see all your nakedness.
And I will judge you with judgments of adulteresses, and with shedders of blood. And I will give you blood and fury and jealousy.
And I will also give you into their hand, and they will tear down your mound, and will demolish your high places. They shall also strip you of your clothes, and shall take your beautiful things, and leave you naked and bare.
They shall also raise a company against you, and they shall stone you with stones, and cut you with their swords.
And they shall burn your houses with fire, and execute judgments on you in the sight of many women. And I will make you stop whoring; and also, you shall not give hire again.
And I will make My fury to rest against you, and My jealousy shall depart from you, and I will be quiet and will be angry no more.
Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have troubled Me in all these things; so, behold, I will also repay your way on your head, says the Lord Jehovah. And you shall not commit this wickedness above all your abominations.
Behold, all who use proverbs shall use this proverb against you, saying, As the mother, so is her daughter.
You are your mother's daughter, who despises her husband and her sons. And you are the sister of your sisters, who despise their husbands and their sons. Your mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
And your older sister is Samaria, she and her daughters who dwell at your left hand. And your younger sister, who dwells at your right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
Yet you have not walked according to their ways, nor done according to their hateful deeds; but, as if it were a very little thing, you were corrupted more than they were in all your ways.
As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, Sodom your sister, she nor her daughters, has not done as you have done, you and your daughters.
Behold, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom; pride. Fullness of bread and abundance of idleness was in her and in her daughters. Nor did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.
And they were haughty and did abominable things before Me, so I turned away as I saw fit.
Nor has Samaria sinned as much as half your sins; but you have multiplied your abominations more than they, and have justified your sisters in all your abominations which you have done.
You also, who have judged your sisters, bear your own shame for your sins which you have committed more abominable than they. They are more righteous than you! Yes, blush and bear your shame, since you have justified your sisters.
When I shall return their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, then also the captivity of your captivity in their midst;
that you may bear your shame, and blush in all that you have done, since you are a comfort to them.
When your sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to their former state, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former state, then you and your daughters shall return to your former state.
For your sister Sodom was not mentioned by your mouth in the day of your pride,
before your wickedness was uncovered, as at the time of your reproach of the daughters of Syria, and of all her neighbors, the daughters of the Philistines who hated you from all around.
You are bearing your wickedness and your abominations, says the LORD.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: I will even deal with you as you have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant.
But I will remember My covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish to you an everlasting covenant.
And you shall remember your ways and be ashamed, when you shall receive your sisters, your older and your younger. And I will give them to you for daughters, but not by your covenant.
And I will establish My covenant with you; and you shall know that I am the LORD;
so that you may remember and be ashamed; and it will not be possible to open your mouth any more because of your shame; in that I am propitiated for all that you have done, says the Lord Jehovah.