Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened to ten virgins, who took their lamps and went out to meet the bride-groom.
Five of them were wise, and five were foolish.
Those who were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them:
but the wise took oil in their vessels, with their lamps.
While the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept.
And at midnight a cry was made: Behold, the bridegroom comes! Go you out to meet him.
Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
And the foolish said to the wise: Give us of your oil, for our lamps are going out.
But the wise answered, saying: Lest there may not be enough for us and you, go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.
While they were going to buy, the bridegroom came; and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage-supper; and the door was closed.
Afterward the other virgins also came, and said: Lord! Lord! open for us.
But he answered and said: Verily I say to you, I know you not.
Watch, therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour.
For as a man, on leaving his country, called his own servants, and delivered to them his goods:
To one he gave five talents; to another, two; and to another, one; to each one, according to his own ability, and immediately left his country.
Then he that had received the five talents, went and traded with them, and made other five talents.
In like manner also, he that had received the two, gained other two.
But he that had received the one, went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord’s money.
After a long time, the lord of those servants came and settled with them.
And he that had received the five talents came and brought other five talents, and said: Lord, you delivered to me five talents: see, I have gained other five talents in addition to them.
His lord said to him: Well done, good and faithful servant; you have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many. Enter into the joy of your lord.
And he also that had received the two talents came, and said: Lord, you delivered to me two talents; see, I have gained other two talents in addition to them.
His lord said to him: Well done, good and faithful servant; you have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many. Enter into the joy of your lord.
But he that had received the one talent came, and said: Lord, I knew you, that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter.
And I was afraid, and went and hid your talent in the earth; see, you have yours.
His lord answered and said to him: Wicked and slothful servant; did you know that I reap where I did not sow, and gather where I did not scatter?
Therefore, you ought to have put my money with the bankers; and, when I came, I could have received my own with interest.
Therefore, take from him the talent, and give it to him that has the ten talents.
For to every one that has, it shall be given, and he shall have abundance. But from him that has not, even that which he has shall be taken away.
And cast the unprofitable servant into the darkness without. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
When the Son of man shall come in his own glory, and all the holy angels with him, then will he sit on the throne of his own glory;
and all nations shall be gathered before him; and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates his sheep from the goats.
And he will place the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on his left.
Then the King will say to those on his right hand: Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
For I was hungry, and you gave me food; I was thirsty, and you gave me drink; I was a stranger, and you took me to your houses;
naked, and you clothed me; I was sick, and you visited me; I was in prison, and you came to me.
Then will the righteous answer him, saying: Lord, when did we see thee hungry, and feed thee? or thirsty, and give thee drink?
When did we see thee a stranger, and take thee to our home? or naked, and clothe thee?
When did we see thee sick, or in prison, and come to thee?
And the King will answer and say to them: Verily I say to you, Inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brethren, you did it to me.
Then will he say to those on his left hand: Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels.
For I was hungry, and you gave me no food; I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink;
I was a stranger, and you took me not to your houses; naked, and you did not clothe me; I was sick, and in prison, and you did not visit me.
Then they also will answer, and say: Lord, when did we see thee hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to thee?
Then will he answer them, saying: Verily I say to you, Inasmuch as you did it not to one of the least of these, you did it not to me.
And these shall go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.