And Hannah prayed and said: My heart has exulted in Jehovah; my horn has been high in Jehovah. My mouth has been large over my enemies; for I have rejoiced in Your salvation.
None is holy like Jehovah, for there is none except You; yea, there is no rock like our God.
Do not multiply your haughty words; let not arrogance go out from your mouth; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by Him actions are weighed.
Bows of the mighty are broken; and they that stumble gird on strength.
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread; and the hungry have ceased, while the barren has borne seven; yea, she who had many sons has languished.
Jehovah kills, and keeps alive; He brings down and causes to go to Sheol.
Jehovah brings down, and He gives riches; He brings low; yea, He lifts up high.
He raised the poor from the dust; He lifts up the needy from the dunghill, to cause them to sit with nobles; yea, He caused them to inherit a throne of honor; for to Jehovah are the pillars of the earth; and He sets the habitable world on them.
He keeps the feet of His saints, and the wicked are silenced in darkness; for man does not become mighty by power.
They who strive with Jehovah will be smashed; He thunders in the heavens against him; Jehovah judges the ends of the earth, and gives strength to His king, and exalts the horn of His anointed.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. And the child served Jehovah before Eli the priest.
And the sons of Eli were sons of worthlessness; they did not know Jehovah.
And the custom of the priests with the people was : any man offering a sacrifice, (and the priest's servant came when the flesh was boiling, with the three-toothed hook in his hand),
even he stuck it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that the hook brought up, the priest took for himself. So they did to all Israel who came in there to Shiloh.
Yea, before they made the fat to smoke, then the priest's servant came in. And he said to the man who was sacrificing, Give meat to roast for the priest; and he will not take boiled meat from you, but raw.
And if the man said to him, Let the fat be made to smoke as the day, and then take as much as your soul desires; then he would say, No, but you shall give now. And if not, I will take it by force.
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah, for the men had despised the offering of Jehovah.
And Samuel was serving before Jehovah, a boy girded with an ephod of linen.
And his mother made a small coat for him, and she brought it up to him from year to year, as she came up with her husband to offer the sacrifice of the days.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah shall give you seed of this woman, because of the petition she prayed to Jehovah. And they went away to their place.
So Jehovah visited Hannah, and she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel grew up with Jehovah.
And Eli was very old, and had heard all that his sons did to Israel, and how they lay with the women who assembled by troops at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And he said to them, Why do you do things like these? For I am hearing of your evil doings from all these people.
No my sons, for the report which I am hearing is not good, causing the people of Jehovah to transgress.
If a man sins against a man, then God shall judge him. But if a man sins against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? But they did not listen to the voice of their father, because Jehovah desired to execute them.
And the boy Samuel went on, growing both in stature and in good looks , both with Jehovah and also with men.
And a man of God came to Eli, and said to him, So says Jehovah: Did I reveal Myself plainly to the house of your father when they were in Egypt, at the house of Pharaoh,
even to choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be priest to Me, to go up on My altar, to cause incense to smoke, to bear an ephod before Me? And did I give to your father's house all the fire offerings of the sons of Israel?
Why do you kick at My sacrifice and at My offering which I commanded in My habitation? And why do you honor your sons above Me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of My people?
So says Jehovah the God of Israel, I said indeed that your house and your father's house should walk before Me until forever. But now Jehovah says, Be it far from Me! For those who honor Me, I will honor; and those despising Me will be despicable.
Behold, days come when I shall cut off your arm, and the arm of your father's house, that no old man shall be in your house.
And you shall see an adversary in My habitation, in all that he does good with Israel. And there shall not be an old man in your house all the days.
And the man of yours that I shall not cut off from My altar shall be to cause your eyes to fail, and to grieve your soul. And all the increase of your house shall die young men.
And this shall be the sign to you, that which shall come on your two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas: in one day the both of them shall die.
And I shall raise up for Myself a faithful priest. He shall do all that is in My heart and in My soul. And I shall build for him a sure house; and he shall walk before My anointed all the days.
And it shall be, everyone who is left in your house shall come in to bow to him for a wage of silver and a loaf of bread. And they shall say, please admit me into one of the priest's offices, to eat a bit of bread.