In the twenty-fifth year of our captivity, in the beginning of the year, in the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was smitten, in the selfsame day, the hand of Jehovah was upon me, and he brought me there.
He brought me in the visions of God into the land of Israel, and set me down upon a very high mountain, upon which was as it were the frame of a city on the south.
And he brought me there, and, behold, there was a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax in his hand, and a measuring reed. And he stood in the gate.
And the man said to me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes, and hear with thine ears, and set thy heart upon all that I shall show thee. For thou are brought here to the intent that I may show them to thee. Declare all that thou see to the house of Israel.
And, behold, a wall on the outside of the house round about, and in the man's hand a measuring reed six cubits long, of a cubit and a handbreadth each. So he measured the thickness of the building, one reed, and the height, one reed.
Then he came to the gate which looks toward the east, and went up the steps of it. And he measured the threshold of the gate, one reed broad, and the other threshold, one reed broad.
And every little chamber was one reed long, and one reed broad, and the space between the little chambers was five cubits. And the threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate toward the house was one reed.
He also measured the porch of the gate toward the house, one reed.
Then he measured the porch of the gate, eight cubits, and the posts thereof, two cubits. And the porch of the gate was toward the house.
And the little chambers of the gate eastward were three on this side, and three on that side; those three were of one measure. And the posts had one measure on this side and on that side.
And he measured the breadth of the opening of the gate, ten cubits, and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits,
and a border before the little chambers, one cubit on this side, and a border, one cubit on that side, and the little chambers, six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.
And he measured the gate from the roof of the one little chamber to the roof of the other, a breadth of twenty-five cubits, door against door.
He also made posts, sixty cubits. And the court reached to the posts, round about the gate.
And from the forefront of the gate at the entrance to the forefront of the inner porch of the gate were fifty cubits.
And there were closed windows to the little chambers, and to their posts within the gate round about, and likewise to the arches. And windows were round about inward, and upon each post were palm trees.
Then he brought me into the outer court. And, lo, there were chambers and a pavement, made for the court round about; thirty chambers were upon the pavement.
And the pavement was by the side of the gates, answerable to the length of the gates, even the lower pavement.
Then he measured the breadth from the forefront of the lower gate to the forefront of the inner court outside, a hundred cubits, both on the east and on the north.
And the gate of the outer court whose view is toward the north, he measured the length of it and the breadth of it.
And the little chambers of it were three on this side and three on that side. And the posts of it and the arches of it were according to the measure of the first gate: the length of it was fifty cubits, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.
And the windows of it, and the arches of it, and the palm trees of it, were according to the measure of the gate whose view is toward the east. And they went up to it by seven steps, and the arches of it were before them.
And there was a gate to the inner court opposite the other gate, both on the north and on the east, and he measured from gate to gate a hundred cubits.
And he led me toward the south. And, behold, a gate toward the south. And he measured the posts of it and the arches of it according to these measures.
And there were windows in it, and in the arches of it round about, like those windows: the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.
And there were seven steps to go up to it, and the arches of it were before them. And it had palm trees, one on this side, and another on that side, upon the posts of it.
And there was a gate to the inner court toward the south. And he measured from gate to gate toward the south a hundred cubits.
Then he brought me to the inner court by the south gate. And he measured the south gate according to these measures,
and the little chambers of it, and the posts of it, and the arches of it, according to these measures. And there were windows in it and in the arches of it round about. It was fifty cubits long, and twenty-five cubits broad.
And there were arches round about, twenty-five cubits long, and five cubits broad.
And the arches of it were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon the posts of it. And the ascent to it had eight steps.
And he brought me into the inner court toward the east. And he measured the gate according to these measures,
and the little chambers of it, and the posts of it, and the arches of it, according to these measures. And there were windows in it and in the arches of it round about. It was fifty cubits long, and twenty-five cubits broad.
And the arches of it were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon the posts of it, on this side, and on that side. And the ascent to it had eight steps.
And he brought me to the north gate. And he measured it according to these measures,
the little chambers of it, the posts of it, and the arches of it. And there were windows in it round about. The length was fifty cubits, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.
And the posts of it were toward the outer court, and palm trees were upon the posts of it, on this side, and on that side. And the ascent to it had eight steps.
And a chamber with the door of it was by the posts at the gates. There they washed the burnt offering.
And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, and two tables on that side, to kill on it the burnt offering and the sin offering and the trespass offering.
And on the one side outside, at the going up to the entry of the gate toward the north, were two tables, and on the other side, which belonged to the porch of the gate, were two tables.
Four tables were on this side, and four tables on that side, by the side of the gate, eight tables, upon which they killed the sacrifices.
And there were four tables for the burnt offering, of hewn stone, a cubit and a half long, and a cubit and a half broad, and one cubit high, upon which they laid the instruments of which they killed the burnt offering and the sacrifice.
And the hooks, a handbreadth long, were fastened inside round about. And upon the tables was the flesh of the oblation.
And outside the inner gate were chambers for the singers in the inner court, which was at the side of the north gate, and their view was toward the south, one at the side of the east gate having the view toward the north.
And he said to me, This chamber, whose view is toward the south, is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house.
And the chamber whose view is toward the north is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who from among the sons of Levi come near to Jehovah to minister to him.
And he measured the court, a hundred cubits long, and a hundred cubits broad, foursquare. And the altar was before the house.
Then he brought me to the porch of the house, and measured each post of the porch, five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side. And the breadth of the gate was three cubits on this side, and three cubits on that side.
The length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the breadth eleven cubits, even by the steps by which they went up to it. And there were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and another on that side.