And it came to pass, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah, king of Judah, that this word came unto Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying:
Take thee a scroll, and write therein all the words which I have spoken unto thee concerning Israel and concerning Judah and concerning all the nations,—from the day I began to speak unto thee from the days of Josiah, even until this day:
Peradventure, the house of Judah will hearken unto all the calamity, which I am devising to execute against them,—to the end they may return every man from his wicked way, whereupon I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin.
So Jeremiah called Baruch, son of Neriah,—and Baruch wrote, from the mouth of Jeremiah, all the words of Yahweh which he had spoken unto him upon a scroll.
Then did Jeremiah command Baruch, saying,—I, am hindered, I cannot enter the house of Yahweh;
Thou, therefore shalt enter and read in the roll which thou hast written from my mouth the words of Yahweh in the ears of the people in the house of Yahweh on the day of a fast,—moreover also, in the ears of all Judah who are coming in out of their cities, shalt thou read them:
Peradventure, their supplication, will fall prostrate, before Yahweh, and they return every man from his wicked way,—For, great, are the anger and the indignation which Yahweh hath spoken against this people.
So then Baruch son of Neriah did according to all which Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of Yahweh in the house of Yahweh.
And it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah in the ninth month, that all the people of Jerusalem, and all the people who were coming in out of the cities of Judah into Jerusalem, had proclaimed a fast before Yahweh;
Baruch, therefore, read in the book the words of Jeremiah, in the house of Yahweh,—in the chamber of Gemariah son of Shaphan—the scribe, in the upper court, at the opening of the new gate of the house of Yahweh, in the ears of all the people.
When Micaiah, son of Gemariah son of Shaphan, heard all the words of Yahweh out of the book,
then went he down unto the house of the king up to the chamber of the scribe, and lo! there, all the princes sitting,—Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan son of Achbor, and Gemariah son of Shaphan and Zedekiah son of Hananiah, and all the princes,
So Micaiah told them all the words which he heard,—when Baruch read in the book in the ears of the people.
All the princes, therefore sent unto Baruch, Jehudi, son of Nethaniah son of Shelemiah son of Cushi saying, The roll wherein thou didst read in the ears of the people, take it in thy hand, and come, So Baruch son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and came in unto them.
Then said they unto him, Sit down we pray thee and read it in our ears, So Baruch read it in their ears.
And it came to pass when they heard all the words, that they turned with fear one to another,—and said unto Baruch, We must, surely tell, the king, all these words!
Then unto Baruch, put they questions saying,—Tell us, we pray thee, How, didst thou write all these words at his mouth?
So Baruch said unto them, With his own mouth, used he to proclaim unto me all these words,—and I kept on writing in the book, with ink.
Then said the princes unto Baruch, Go hide thee, thou and Jeremiah, and let no man, know where ye, are!
Then went they in unto the king, into the court, but the roll, had they put in charge, in the chamber of Elishama the scribe,—so they declared in the ears of the king all the words.
The king, therefore sent, Jehudi, to fetch the roll, and he fetched it out of the chamber of Elishama the scribe,—and Jehudi read it in the ears of the king, and in the ears of all the princes who were standing near the king.
Now, the king, was sitting in the winter house in the ninth month,—with the fire-stove before him burning.
So then it came to pass when Jehudi had read three or four columns that he cut it up into fragments with a scribe’s knife, and cast them into the fire that was in the stove,—until, all the roll, was consumed on the fire that was on the stove.
Yet were they not in dread, neither rent they their garments,—the king, nor any of his servants that were hearing all these words.
Nevertheless Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah, interceded with the king, not to burn the roll,—but he hearkened not unto them.
Then did the king command Jerahmeel son of the king, and Seraiah son of Azriel, and Shelemiah son of Abdeel, to fetch Baruch the scribe, and Jeremiah the prophet,—but Yahweh had hid them.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto Jeremiah, after the king had burned the roll, and the words which Baruch had written from the mouth of Jeremiah saying:
Again take thee another roll, and write thereon, all the former words which were on the first roll, which Jehoiakim king of Judah hath burned.
But unto Jehoiakim king of Judah, shalt thou say, Thus, saith Yahweh,—Thou, hast burned this roll saying, Why hast thou written thereon—saying, The king of Babylon shall, certainly, come and lay waste this land, and cause to cease therefrom man and beast?
Therefore, Thus, saith Yahweh, Concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah,—He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David,—And, his dead body, shall be cast out—to the heat by day, and to the frost by night;
And I will visit upon him and upon his seed and upon his servants the punishment of their iniquity,—and will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem and against, the men of Judah, all the calamity, which I have spoken against them but they have not hearkened.
So, Jeremiah, took another roll and gave it unto Baruch son of Neriah the scribe, who wrote thereon, from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book, which Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned, in the fire,—and further were added thereunto many words like unto them