A false balanceisabomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight.
Whenpride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowlyiswisdom.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.
Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own iniquity.
When a wicked man dieth, hisexpectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perisheth.
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.
An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered.
When the righteous prosper, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there isshouting.
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
Where no counselis, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it : and he that hateth suretiship is secure.
A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strongmenretain riches.
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.
The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward.
As righteousnesstendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death.
They that are of a perverse heartareabomination to the LORD: but such as are upright in their way are his delight.
Thoughhandjoin in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, so is a fair woman who is without discretion.
The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is right, but it tendeth to poverty.
The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
He that withholdeth grain, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it .
He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come to him.
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the righteous shall flourish as a branch.
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise.
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed upon the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.