Ask ye of HaShem rain in the time of the latter rain, even of HaShem that maketh lightnings; and He will give them showers of rain, to every one grass in the field.
For the teraphim have spoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a lie, and the dreams speak falsely, they comfort in vain; therefore they go their way like sheep, they are afflicted, because there is no shepherd.
Mine anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the he-goats; for HaShem of hosts hath remembered His flock the house of Judah, and maketh them as His majestic horse in the battle.
Out of them shall come forth the corner-stone, out of them the stake, out of them the battle bow, out of them every master together.
And they shall be as mighty men, treading down in the mire of the streets in the battle, and they shall fight, because HaShem is with them; and the riders on horses shall be confounded.
And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back, for I have compassion upon them, and they shall be as though I had not cast them off; for I am HaShem their G-d, and I will hear them.
And they of Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as through wine; yea, their children shall see it, and rejoice, their heart shall be glad in HaShem.
I will hiss for them, and gather them, for I have redeemed them; and they shall increase as they have increased.
And I will sow them among the peoples, and they shall remember Me in far countries; and they shall live with their children, and shall return.
I will bring them back also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and place shall not suffice them.
And over the sea affliction shall pass, and the waves shall be smitten in the sea, and all the depths of the Nile shall dry up; and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away.
And I will strengthen them in HaShem; and they shall walk up and down in His name, saith HaShem.