Praise ye the LORD! O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; For his mercy endureth for ever!
Who can utter the mighty deeds of the LORD? Who can show forth all his praise?
Happy are they who have regard to justice, Who practise righteousness at all times!
Remember me, O LORD! with the favor promised to thy people; O visit me with thy salvation!
That I may see the prosperity of thy chosen, That I may rejoice in the joy of thy people, That I may glory with thine inheritance!
We have sinned with our fathers; We have committed iniquity; we have done wickedly.
Our fathers in Egypt did not regard thy wonders; They remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; But rebelled at the sea, the Red sea.
Yet he saved them for his own name’s sake. That he might make his mighty power to be known.
He rebuked the Red sea, and it was dried up, And he led them through the deep as through a desert.
He saved them from the hand of him that hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
The waters covered their enemies; There was not one of them left.
Then believed they his words, And sang his praise.
But they soon forgot his deeds, And waited not for his counsel.
They gave way to appetite in the wilderness, And tempted God in the desert;
And he gave them their request, But sent upon them leanness.
They also envied Moses in the camp, And Aaron, the holy one of the LORD.
Then the earth opened, and swallowed up Dathan, And covered the company of Abiram,
And a fire was kindled in their company; The flames burned up the wicked.
They made a calf in Horeb, And worshipped a molten image;
They changed their God of glory Into the image of a grass-eating ox.
They forgot God, their saviour, Who had done such great things in Egypt,
Such wonders in the land of Ham. Such terrible things at the Red sea.
Then he said that he would destroy them; Had not Moses, his chosen, stood before him in the breach, To turn away his wrath, that he might not destroy them.
They also despised the pleasant land, And believed not his word;
But murmured in their tents, And would not hearken to the voice of the LORD.
Then he lifted up his hand against them, And swore that he would make them fall in the wilderness;
That he would overthrow their descendants among the nations, And scatter them in the lands.
They also gave themselves to the worship of Baal-peor, And ate sacrifices offered to lifeless idols.
Thus they provoked his anger by their practices, And a plague broke in upon them.
Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment, And the plague was stayed.
And this was counted to him for righteousness, To all generations for ever.
They provoked him also at the waters of Meribah [strife], And evil befell Moses on their account.
For they provoked his spirit, So that he spake inconsiderately with his lips.
They did not destroy the nations, As Jehovah had commanded them.
They mingled themselves with the peoples, And learned their practices.
They even worshipped their idols, Which became to them a snare.
Their sons and their daughters they sacrificed to demons,
And shed innocent blood, The blood of their own sons and daughters, Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with blood.
Thus they defiled themselves with their works, And played the harlot with their practices.
Then burned the anger of the LORD against his people, So that he abhorred his own inheritance.
And he gave them into the hand of the nations, And they who hated them ruled over them.
Their enemies oppressed them, And they were bowed down under their hand.
Many times did he deliver them; But they provoked him by their devices, And they were brought low for their iniquities.
Yet, when he heard their cries, He had regard to their affliction;
He remembered his covenant with them, And repented according to the greatness of his mercy,
And caused them to find pity Among all that carried them captive.
Save us, O Jehovah, our God! and gather us from among the nations, That we may give thanks to thy holy name, And glory in thy praise!
Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say, Amen! Praise ye Jehovah!