But the famine, was severe in the land.
So it came to pass when they had made an end of eating the corn which they had brought in out of Egypt, that their father said unto them,—Return buy for us a little food.
Then spake Judah unto him saying,—The man, did protest, to us saying—Ye shall not see my face, except, your brother, is with you.
If thou art sending our brother with us, we will certainly go down, and buy for thee food;
but, if thou art not sending him, we will not go down, for the man, said unto us Ye shall not see my face, except, your brother, is with you.
And Israel said, Wherefore did ye ill to me,—to tell the man, there yet remained to you a brother?
And they said, The man, did ask, concerning ourselves and concerning our kindred saying—Is your father yet alive? Have ye a brother? So we told him according to the tenor of these words. Could we, at all know, that he would say, Bring down your brother?
Then said Judah unto Israel his father—Come! send thou down the young man with me that we may arise and go our way,—and live and not die, both we and thou and our little ones.
I, will be surety for him, at my hand, shalt thou require him,—as surely as I bring him not in unto thee, and set him down before thee, so surely will I be counted a sinner against thee all the days,
For, if we had not lingered, surely now, had we come back here a second time.
Then Israel their father said unto them—If so, then do this,—Take of the song of the land in your vessels, and carry down to the man a present,—A little balsam and a little honey, tragacanth gum and cistus gum, pistachio nuts, and almonds.
And double silver, take in your hand,—also the silver that was put back in the mouth of your sacks, carry ye back in your hand, peradventure it was an error,
Your brother also, take ye,—and arise go again unto the man.
And, God Almighty, give you compassion before the man, so shall he send with you, your other brother, and Benjamin. But, as for me, when I am bereaved, I am bereaved!
So the men took this present, double silver also, took they in their hand and Benjamin,—and arose and went down into Egypt, and stood before Joseph.
And Joseph saw—with them—Benjamin, so he said to him that was over his house Bring the men into the house,—and slay meat and make ready, for with me, shall the men eat at noon.
So the men did as Joseph had said, and the man brought the men into Joseph’s house,
Then were the men afraid because they had been brought into the house of Joseph, and they said—For the matter of the silver that came back in our sacks at the beginning, have, we, been brought in,—that he may turn round upon us and fall upon us, and take us for servants and our asses.
So they drew near unto the man that was over Joseph’s house,—and spake unto him at the entrance of the house;
and said, May it please my lord! We, did indeed come down, at the beginning to buy food.
And it came to pass when we had entered into the inn, that we opened our sacks, and lo! the silver of each man, in the mouth of his sack,—our silver in its full weight,—so we have bought it back in our hand!
And, more silver, have we brought down in our hand, to buy food,—we know not who put our silver in our sacks.
And he said—Peace to you do not fear! Your God, and the God of your father, hath given you secret treasure, in your sacks, as for your silver, it came in unto me. And he brought forth unto them Simeon.
So the man brought the men into Joseph’s house,—and gave them water and they bathed their feet, and he gave them provender for their asses.
And they made ready the present, against the coming in of Joseph at noon,—for they heard that it was there they should eat bread.
So when Joseph came into the house, they brought in to him the present which was in their hand into the house,—and bowed themselves down to him to the earth.
Then asked he after their welfare, and said—Is it well with your aged father, of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive?
And they said—It is well with thy servant our father, he is yet alive. And they bent their heads and bowed them-selves down.
Then lifted he up his eyes, and saw Benjamin his brother son of his mother, and said—Is, this, your youngest brother, of whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God, grant thee favour my son!
And Joseph made haste for his compassions towards his brother were pent up, and he sought to weep,—so he went into the inner chamber and wept there,
Then bathed he his face and came forth,—and restrained himself, and said Set on bread!
So they set on for him—by himself, and for them—by themselves,—and for the Egyptians that were eating with him—by themselves, for the Egyptians might not eat, bread, with the Hebrews for an abomination, had that been to Egyptians.
So they took their seats before him, the firstborn, according to his birthright and the youngest, according to his youth,—and the men looked with amazement, each one at his companion.
And he sent portions from before him unto them, and the portion of Benjamin exceeded the portions of them all, five-fold. And they drank and made merry with him.