And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers, in the city of David,—and Jehoram his son reigned in his steed.
Now, he, had brethren, sons of Jehoshaphat—Azariah and Jehiel and Zechariah and Azariah, and Michael and Shephatiah,—all these, were sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel,
and their father gave them large presents—of silver and of gold and of precious things, with cities of defence, in Judah,—but, the kingdom, gave he unto Jehoram, for, he, was the firstborn.
But, when Jehoram had arisen over the kingdom of his father, he strengthened himself, and slew all his brethren, with the sword,—moreover also some of the rulers of Israel.
Thirty-two years old, was Jehoram when he began to reign,—and, eight years, reigned he in Jerusalem.
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, like as did the house of Ahab, for, the daughter of Ahab, had he, to wife,—so he wrought wickedness, in the eyes of Yahweh.
Howbeit Yahweh was not willing to destroy the house of David, because of the covenant which he had solemnised, unto David,—and as he had promised to give unto him a lamp, and unto his sons, all the days.
In his days, revolted the Edomites, from under the hand of Judah,—and set over themselves a king.
So Jehoram passed over, with his captains, and all his chariot, with him,-and it came to pass that he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites that were round about unto him, and the chariot-captains.
So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah—unto this day. Then, must Libnah needs revolt at the same time, from under his hand,—because he had forsaken Yahweh, the God of his fathers.
He too, made high places among the mountains of Judah,—and caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to be unchaste, and seduced Judah.
Then came there unto him, a writing, from Elijah the prophet, saying,—Thus, saith Yahweh, God of David thy father, Because thou hast not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asa, king of Judah;
but hast walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and hast caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to be unchaste, after the unchastities of the house of Ahab,—moreover also, thine own brethren of the house of thy father who were better than thou, hast thou slain,
lo! Yahweh, is about to plague, with a great plague, thy people,-and thy children and thy wives, and all thy possessions;
also, thyself, with sore diseases, with disease of thy bowels,-until thy bowels shall fall out, by reason of the disease, in a year added to a year.
And Yahweh stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines, and the Arabians, who were under the direction of the Ethiopians;
and they came up against Judah, and forced their way into it, and carried off all the possessions that were found belonging to the house of the king, moreover also his sons and his wives,—so that there was left him never a son, save only Jehoahaz the youngest of his sons.
And, after all this, Yahweh plagued him in his bowels with an incurable disease.
And it came to pass, in a year beyond a year, even when the end of the days of two years had passed, that his bowels fell out by reason of his disease, so that he died, of, malignant disease,—and his people made him no burning, like the burning of his fathers.
Thirty-two years old, was he when he began to reign, and, eight years, reigned he in Jerusalem,—and went his way—unregretted, and, though they buried him in the city of David, yet, not in the sepulchres of the kings.