A wise son is instructed of his father; but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
A man shall eat good from the fruit of his mouth; but the desire of the faithless is violence.
He that guardeth his mouth keepeth his life; but for him that openeth wide his lips there shall be ruin.
The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing; but the soul of the diligent shall be abundantly gratified.
A righteous man hateth lying; but a wicked man behaveth vilely and shamefully.
Righteousness guardeth him that is upright in the way; but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
There is that pretendeth himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is that pretendeth himself poor, yet hath great wealth.
The ransom of a man's life are his riches; but the poor heareth no threatening.
The light of the righteous rejoiceth; but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
By pride cometh only contention; but with the well-advised is wisdom.
Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished; but he that gathereth little by little shall increase.
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick; but desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
Whoso despiseth the word shall suffer thereby; but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Good understanding giveth grace; but the way of the faithless is harsh.
Every prudent man dealeth with forethought; but a fool unfoldeth folly.
A wicked messenger falleth into evil; but a faithful ambassador is health.
Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction; but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul; and it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil.
He that walketh with wise men shall be wise; but the companion of fools shall smart for it.
Evil pursueth sinners; but to the righteous good shall be repaid.
A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children; and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous.
Much food is in the tillage of the poor; but there is that is swept away by want of righteousness.
He that spareth his rod hateth his son; but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his desire; but the belly of the wicked shall want.