For the Leader. A Psalm of David.
In thee, O HaShem, have I taken refuge; let me never be ashamed; deliver me in Thy righteousness.
Incline Thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily; be Thou to me a rock of refuge, even a fortress of defence, to save me.
For Thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for Thy name's sake lead me and guide me.
Bring me forth out of the net that they have hidden for me; for Thou art my stronghold.
Into Thy hand I commit my spirit; Thou hast redeemed me, O HaShem, Thou G-d of truth.
I hate them that regard lying vanities; but I trust in HaShem.
I will be glad and rejoice in Thy lovingkindness; for Thou hast seen mine affliction, Thou hast taken cognizance of the troubles of my soul,
And Thou hast not given me over into the hand of the enemy; Thou hast set my feet in a broad place.
Be gracious unto me, O HaShem, for I am in distress; mine eye wasteth away with vexation, yea, my soul and my body.
For my life is spent in sorrow, and my years in sighing; my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are wasted away.
Because of all mine adversaries I am become a reproach, yea, unto my neighbours exceedingly, and a dread to mine acquaintance; they that see me without flee from me.
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind; I am like a useless vessel.
For I have heard the whispering of many, terror on every side; while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life.
But as for me, I have trusted in Thee, O HaShem; I have said: 'Thou art my G-d.'
My times are in Thy hand; deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.
Make Thy face to shine upon Thy servant; save me in Thy lovingkindness.
O HaShem, let me not be ashamed, for I have called upon Thee; let the wicked be ashamed, let them be put to silence in the nether-world.
Let the lying lips be dumb, which speak arrogantly against the righteous, with pride and contempt.
Oh how abundant is Thy goodness, which Thou hast laid up for them that fear Thee; which Thou hast wrought for them that take their refuge in Thee, in the sight of the sons of men!
Thou hidest them in the covert of Thy presence from the plottings of man; Thou concealest them in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be HaShem; for He hath shown me His wondrous lovingkindness in an entrenched city.
As for me, I said in my haste: 'I am cut off from before Thine eyes'; nevertheless Thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto Thee.
O love HaShem, all ye His godly ones; HaShem preserveth the faithful, and plentifully repayeth him that acteth haughtily.
Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all ye that wait for HaShem.