And after this, I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that no wind should blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.
And I saw another angel coming up from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God; and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea,
saying, Hurt not the earth, nor the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads.
And I heard the number of the sealed. A hundred and forty-four thousand were sealed out of all the tribes of the sons of Israel.
Out of the tribe of Judah were sealed twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
out of the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
out of the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand;
out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand were sealed.
After these things I saw, and lo! a great multitude, which no one could number, out of every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, and palms in their hands.
And they cry with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sitteth upon the throne, and to the Lamb.
And all the angels were standing around the throne and the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,
saying, Amen; the blessing, and the glory, and the wisdom, and the thanksgiving, and the honor, and the power, and the might, be to our God, for ever and ever.
And one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are clothed in the white robes, who are they, and whence came they?
And I said to him, My lord, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they who come out of the great tribulation, and they washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple; and he that sitteth on the throne will make his abode with them.
They shall hunger no more, nor thirst any more; neither shall the sun fall upon them, nor any burning heat;
for the Lamb who is in the midst before the throne is a shepherd to them, and leadeth them to the fountains of the waters of life; and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.