And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and the sea is no more.
And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, having been prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them.
And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there will not be any more death, nor grief, nor crying, nor will there be any more anguish, because the former things are gone.
And he who sits upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he says to me, Write, because these words are true and faithful.
And he said to me, I have become, I, the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to him who is thirsty of the fountain of the water of life freely.
He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be God to him, and he will be a son to me.
But for the cowards, and unbelieving, and sinful, and abominable, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, their part is in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
And there came one of the seven agents who had the seven bowls containing the seven last plagues, and he spoke with me, saying, Come, I will show thee the woman, the bride of the Lamb.
And he carried me away in spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the great city, holy Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
having the glory of God, the light of it similar to a most precious stone, like a jasper stone being crystal clear,
which has a great and high wall having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve agents, and names inscribed, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel:
from the east, three gates, and from the north, three gates, and from the south, three gates, and from the west, three gates.
And the wall of the city having twelve foundations, and on them the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And he who spoke with me had a measure, a golden reed, so that he might measure the city, and the gates of it, and the walls of it.
And the city lies foursquare, and the length of it is as great as the breadth. And he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs, the length and the breadth and the height of it being equal.
And he measured the wall of it, a hundred and forty-four forearms, a measure of a man, that is, of an agent.
And the structure of its wall was jasper. And the city was pure gold, similar to clear glass.
And the foundations of the wall of the city adorned with every precious stone. The first foundation was jasper, the second, sapphire, the third, chalcedony, the fourth, emerald,
the fifth, sardonyx, the sixth, sardius, the seventh, chrysolite, the eighth, beryl, the ninth, topaz, the tenth, chrysoprase, the eleventh, jacinth, the twelfth, amethyst.
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls apiece, each one of the gates was of one pearl. And the thoroughfare of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
And I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God Almighty is the temple of it, and the Lamb.
And the city has no need of the sun, nor of the moon, so that they might shine in it, for the glory of God illuminated it, and the light of it is the Lamb.
And the nations will walk by the light of it. And the kings of the earth bring to them the splendor and worth of the nations into it.
And the gates of it will, no, not be locked by day, for there will be no night there.
And they will bring the splendor and the worth of the nations into it.
And there will, no, not enter into it anything profane, and doing an abomination and a lie, since they are not written in the Lamb's book of life.