So says the Lord Jehovah: The gate of the inner court that faces the east shall be shut the six working days. But on the sabbath day it shall be opened, and in the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
And the prince shall enter by way of the porch of the gate from outside and shall stand by the gatepost. And the priests shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings. And he shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until the evening.
And the people of the land shall worship at the door of that gate on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, before Jehovah.
And the burnt offering that the prince shall bring to Jehovah on the sabbath day shall be six lambs and a ram without blemish.
And the food offering shall be an ephah for a ram, and a food offering for the lambs, a gift of his hand; and a hin of oil to an ephah.
And in the day of the new moon: a bull without blemish, a son of the herd, and six lambs, and a ram; they shall be without blemish
and an ephah for a bull and an ephah for a ram he shall prepare as a food offering; and for the lambs as his hand can reach; and a hin of oil to an ephah.
And when the prince shall enter, he shall enter by way of the porch of the gate, and by its way he shall leave.
But when the people of the land come before Jehovah at the appointed feasts, he who enters by way of the north gate to worship shall leave by way of the south gate. And he who enters by way of the south gate shall leave by way of the north gate. He shall not return by way of the gate by which he came in, but shall leave opposite it.
And the prince shall go in among them when they go in, and he shall leave when they leave.
And in the feasts, and in the appointed feasts, the food offering shall be an ephah to a bull, and an ephah to a ram, and to the lambs a gift of his hand; and a hin of oil to an ephah.
And when the prince prepares as free offering, a burnt offering, or peace offerings as a free offering to Jehovah, then one shall open to him the gate facing east. And he shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings as he does on the sabbath day. And he shall leave, and the gate is shut after he leaves.
And you shall prepare a burnt offering daily to Jehovah, a lamb without blemish, a son of a year; from dawn to dawn you shall prepare it.
And you shall prepare a food offering for it from dawn to dawn, a sixth of an ephah, and a third of a hin of oil to wet the fine flour, a food offering to Jehovah, perfect statutes forever.
So they shall prepare the lamb, and the food offering, and the oil, from dawn to dawn as a burnt offering continually.
So says the Lord Jehovah: If the prince gives a gift to sons of his inheritance, it shall be to his sons; it is their possession by inheritance.
But if he gives it as a gift of his inheritance to one of his servants, then it shall be his until the year of liberty, then it shall return to the prince. His inheritance is only his sons'; it shall be theirs.
And the prince shall not take of the people's inheritance, oppressing them from their possession. He shall bequeath to his sons from his possession, so that My people shall not be dispersed, each man from his possession.
And he brought me through the entry which was at the side of the gate, into the holy rooms for the priests, facing north. And, behold, there was a place on the two sides westward.
And he said to me, This is the place, there where the priests shall boil the guilt offering, and the sin offering, where they shall bake the food offering, so as not to bring them out to the outer court to sanctify the people.
And he led me out to the outer court. And he made me pass by the four corners of the court. And, behold, a court in each corner of the court, a court in each corner of the court.
In the four corners of the court were enclosed courts forty cubits long and thirty wide, one measure to the four of them, being made in corners.
And a row was around in them, around the four of them, and boiling places were made under the rows round about.
And he said to me, These are the houses of those who boil, there where the ministers of the house shall boil the sacrifice of the people.