And when He opened the seventh seal, a silence occurred in Heaven, about a half hour.
And I saw the seven angels who stood before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
And another angel came and stood on the altar, having a golden censer. And many incenses were given to him, that he give them with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before the throne.
And the smoke of the incenses went up with the prayers of the saints out of the hand of the angel before God.
And the angel has taken the censer, and has filled it from the fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth; and sounds and thunders and lightnings and earthquakes occurred.
And the seven angels having the seven trumpets prepared themselves, that they might trumpet.
And the first angel trumpeted. And hail and fire mixed with blood occurred. And it was cast onto the earth; and the third part of the trees was burned down; and all green grass was burned down.
And the second angel trumpeted. And as a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea. And the third part of the sea became blood;
and the third part of the creatures having souls died in the sea; and the third part of the ships was destroyed.
And the third angel trumpeted. And a great burning star, like a lamp, fell out of the heaven. And it fell onto the third part of the rivers, and onto the fountains of waters.
And the name of the star is said to be Wormwood. And the third part of the waters became changed into wormwood. And many men died from the waters, because they were bitter.
And the fourth angel trumpeted. And the third part of the sun, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars, was struck, that the third part of them might be darkened, and the third part of the day might not appear; and in the same way the night.
And I saw, and I heard one angel flying in mid-heaven, saying with a great voice, Woe! Woe! Woe to those dwelling on the earth, from the rest of the voices of the trumpet of the three angels being about to trumpet!