Dare any of you, having, a matter against his brother, sue for judgment before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?
Or know ye not that, the saints, shall judge the world? And, if, by you, the world, is to be judged, unworthy are ye of the smallest judgment-seats?
Know ye not that we shall judge, messengers? and not, then, matters of this life?
If, then, for matters of this, life ye have judgment-seats, them who are of no account in the assembly, these, are ye seating thereupon?
With a view to shame you, am I speaking. So, is it possible that there is among you—not so much as one wise man, who shall be able to judge between his brethren,—
But, brother with brother, sueth for judgment, and that before unbelievers?
Already, indeed, it is an utter defeat for you, that ye are having, law-suits, one with another. Wherefore are ye not rather taking wrong? Wherefore are ye not rather suffering yourselves to be defrauded?
Nay! but, ye, are doing wrong, and defrauding,—and that [your] brethren.
Or know ye not that, wrong-doers, shall not inherit, God’s kingdom? Be not deceiving yourselves:—neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor sodomites,
Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners—shall inherit, God’s kingdom.
And, these things, were some of you; but ye bathed them away,—but ye were sanctified, but ye were justified, in the name of [our] Lord Jesus Christ, and in the Spirit of our God.
All things, unto me, are allowable, but, not all things, are profitable: all things, unto me, are allowable, but, I, will not be brought under authority by any.
Foods for the belly, and the belly for foods; but, God, will set aside, both it and them. The body, however, is not for fornication, but, for the Lord,—and, the Lord, for the body.
God, moreover, hath both raised up, the Lord, and will raise, us, up from among [the dead] through his power.
Know ye not that, your bodies, are, members of Christ? Shall I, then, take away the members of the Christ and make them members of a harlot? Far be it!
Or know ye not that, he that joineth himself unto the harlot, is, one body? For, saith he, the two, shall become, one flesh;
But, he that joineth himself unto the Lord, is, one Spirit.
Flee fornication! Every sin, whatsoever a man shall commit, is, outside his body, but, he that committeth fornication, bringeth sin into his own body.
Or know ye not that, your body, is, a shrine of the Holy Spirit that is within you, which ye have from God? And ye are not your own;—
For ye have been bought with a price! Therefore glorify God in your body.