The Pharisees and the Sadducees came to tempt him; they asked him to show them a sign from the heaven.
But he answered and said unto them, When it is evening, ye say, [It will be] fair weather, for the heaven [is glowing] with an aurora.
And in the morning, [It will be] foul weather today, for the heaven has an aurora and is cloudy. O [ye] hypocrites, ye know how to make decisions based on the face of the heaven, and regarding the signs of the times are ye unable?
A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign; and no sign shall be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. And he left them and departed.
And when his disciples were coming from the other side, they had forgotten to take bread.
Then Jesus said unto them, Take heed and keep [yourselves] from the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, [It is] because we have taken no bread.
[Which] when Jesus perceived, he said unto them, O ye of little faith, why reason ye among yourselves that ye have brought no bread?
Do ye not yet understand, neither remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
Neither the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
How is it that ye do not understand that I did not speak to you concerning bread that ye should keep [yourselves] from the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
Then they understood that he bade [them] not to keep themselves from the leaven of bread, but from the doctrine of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
When Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?
And they said, Some [say that thou art] John the Baptist; some, Elijah; and others, Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am?
And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon son of Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed [it] unto thee, but my Father who is in the heavens.
And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, [a small rock] and upon the [large] rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against her.
And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of the heavens, and whatever thou shalt bind on the earth shall be bound in the heavens, and whatever thou shalt loose on the earth shall be loosed in the heaven.
Then he charged his disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ.
From that time forth Jesus began to declare unto his disciples, how it was expedient for him to go unto Jerusalem and to suffer many things of the elders and the princes of the priests and of the scribes and to be killed and to be raised again the third day.
Then Peter, taking him aside, began to rebuke him, saying, Lord, be it far from thee; in no wise shall this happen unto thee.
But he turned and said unto Peter, Remove thyself from before me, Satan; thou art an offence unto me, for thou dost not understand that which [is] of God, but that which [is] of men.
Then Jesus said unto his disciples, If anyone will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his stake and follow me.
For whosoever desires to save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.
For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he shall reward everyone according to their works.
Verily I say unto you, There are some standing here who shall not taste of death until they have seen the Son of man coming in his kingdom.: