And on the same day Peter and John went up into the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour.
And a certain man, who was lame from his mother's womb, was being carried. And they laid him daily at that temple gate which is called Beautiful, to ask alms from those who entered into the temple.
Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive alms.
And fastening his eyes on him, Peter with John said, Look on us!
And he paid heed to them, expecting to receive something from them.
But Peter said, Silver and gold have I none, but what I have I give you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk!
And taking him by the right hand, he lifted him up. And immediately his feet and ankle-bones received strength.
And leaping up, he stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
And all the people saw him walking and praising God.
And they recognized him, that it was him who sat for alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
And as the lame one who was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
And seeing this, Peter answered the people, Men, Israelites, why do you marvel at this? Or why do you stare at us, as though we had made this man to walk by our own power or holiness?
The God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified His son Jesus, whom you delivered up, denying Him in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to let Him go.
But you denied the Holy and Just One and desired a murderer to be given to you.
And you killed the Prince of Life, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.
And His name, through faith in His name, has made this man strong, this one whom you see and know, His name made firm. And the faith which came through Him has given him this perfect soundness before you.
And now, brothers, I know that you did it through ignorance, as also your rulers did.
But those things which God before had shown by the mouth of all His prophets, that Christ should suffer, He fulfilled in this manner.
Therefore repent and convert so that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord.
And He shall send Jesus Christ, who before was proclaimed to you,
whom Heaven truly needs to receive until the times of restoration of all things, which God has spoken by the mouth of His holy prophets since the world began.
For Moses truly said to the fathers, " The Lord your God shall raise up a Prophet to you from your brothers, One like me. You shall hear Him in all things, whatever He may say to you.
And it shall be that every soul who will not hear that Prophet shall be destroyed from among the people."
And also all the prophets from Samuel and those following after, as many as spoke, have likewise foretold of these days.
You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, "And in your Seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed."
Having raised up His son Jesus, God sent Him to you first, to bless you in turning every one of you away from his iniquities.