Then if there is any comfort in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tendernesses and compassions,
fulfill my joy, that you think the same, having the same love, one in soul, minding the one thing,
doing nothing according to party spirit or self-glory, but in humility, esteeming one another to surpass themselves;
each not looking at their own things, but each also at the things of others.
For let this mind be in you which also was in Christ Jesus,
who subsisting in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God,
but emptied Himself, taking the form of a slave, having become in the likeness of men
and being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, having become obedient until death, even the death of a cross.
Because of this also God highly exalted Him and gave Him a name above every name,
that at the name of Jesus "every knee should bow," of heavenly ones, and earthly ones, and ones under the earth,
and "every tongue should confess" that Jesus Christ is "Lord," to the glory of God the Father. Isa. 45:23
So, then, my beloved, even as you always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much rather in my absence, cultivate your salvation with fear and trembling,
for it is God who is working in you both to will and to work for the sake of His good pleasure.
Do all things without murmurings and disputings,
that you may be blameless and harmless, children of God, without fault in the midst of a crooked generation, even having been perverted, among whom you shine as luminaries in the world,
holding up a word of life, for a boast to me in the day of Christ, that I ran not in vain, nor labored in vain.
But if indeed I am poured out on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice; yea, I rejoice with you all.
And you also rejoice in the same and rejoice with me.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I may also be of good cheer, knowing the things about you.
For I have no one like-minded, who genuinely will care for the things about you.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
But you know the proof of him, that as a child to a father, he served with me for the gospel.
Then I hope to send this one at once, whenever I shall see the things about me.
But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come soon.
But I thought it needful to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow-worker, and my fellow soldier, and your messenger and minister of my need,
since he was longing for you all and has been troubled because you heard that he was sick.
For indeed he was sick, coming near to death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but also me, lest I should have grief on grief.
Therefore, I sent him more eagerly, that seeing him again you may rejoice, and I may be less grieved.
Then receive him in the Lord with all joy and hold such in honor,
that through the work of Christ he drew near to death, having disregarded his life, that he may fill up your lack of service toward me.