And I looked. And, behold, in the expanse over the head of the cherubs appeared the look of the form of a throne, like a sapphire stone, above them.
And He spoke to the man clothed with linen, and said, Go in among the wheels, under the cherub, and fill your hands with coals of fire from between the cherubs, and sprinkle on the city. And he went in before me.
And the cherubs were standing on the right side of the house when he, the man, went in. And the cloud filled the inner court.
And the glory of Jehovah lifted up from the cherub, over the threshold of the house. And the house was filled with the cloud. And the court was full of the radiance of the glory of Jehovah.
And the sound of the wings of cherubs was heard over the outer court, as the voice of God Almighty when He speaks.
And it happened, when He had commanded the man clothed with linen, saying, Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubs. Then he went and stood beside the wheels.
And one cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubs, to the fire between the cherubs. And he lifted and put it into the hands of the one clothed with linen. And he took it and went out.
And the form of a man's hand was seen under the wings of the cherubs.
And I looked, and, behold, the four wheels were beside the cherubs: one wheel beside one cherub, one wheel beside one cherub. And the look of the wheels was like the color of a stone of Tarshish.
And their appearance was as one, the four of them, as if the wheel were in the midst of the wheel.
In their going on their four sides, they went. They did not turn in their going. For to the place where the head faces, after it they went. They did not turn in their going.
And all their flesh, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes all around, even their wheels which the four of them had.
As for the wheels, it was cried to them in my hearing, Whirling wheel!
And four faces were to each. The first face was the face of a cherub, and the second face the face of a man, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.
And the cherubs rose up. This is the living creature that I saw by the river Chebar.
And in the going of the cherubs, the wheels went beside them. And when the cherubs lifted their wings to soar from the earth, the wheels did not turn from beside them, even they.
When they stood still, these stood still. And when they rose up, these also lifted up. For the spirit of the living creature was in them.
And the glory of Jehovah went from the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubs.
And the cherubs lifted their wings and rose up from the earth in my sight. When they went out, the wheels also were with them. And he stood at the door of the gate of the house of Jehovah, the eastern gate And the glory of the God of Israel was over them from above.
This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar, and I knew that they were cherubs.
Four, even four faces are to each, and four wings to each. And the form of a man's hands was under their wings.
And the form of their faces, they are the faces that I saw by the river Chebar, their appearances, even theirs. They each went straight forward.