Unto the end. A Psalm to the sons of Korah.
Hear these things, all nations. Pay attention, all inhabitants of the world:
whoever is earth-born, you sons of men, together as one, the rich and the poor.
My mouth will speak wisdom, and the meditation of my heart will speak prudence.
I will incline my ear to a parable. I will open my case with the psaltery.
Why should I fear in the evil day? The iniquity at my heel will surround me.
Those who trust in their own strength and who glory in the multitude of their riches,
no brother redeems, nor will man buy back. He will not give to God his appeasement,
nor the price for the redemption of his soul. And he will labor continuously,
and he will still live, until the end.
He will not see death, when he sees the wise dying: the foolish and the senseless will perish together. And they will leave their riches to strangers.
And their sepulchers will be their houses forever, their tabernacles from generation to generation. They have called their names in their own lands.
And man, when he was held in honor, did not understand. He has been compared to the senseless beasts, and he has become like them.
This way of theirs is a scandal to them. And afterwards, they will delight in their mouth.
They have been placed in Hell like sheep. Death will feed on them. And the just will have dominion over them in the morning. And their help will grow old in Hell for their glory.
Even so, truly God will redeem my soul from the hand of Hell, when he will receive me.
Do not be afraid, when a man will have been made rich, and when the glory of his house will have been multiplied.
For when he dies, he will take nothing away, and his glory will not descend with him.
For his soul will be blessed in his lifetime, and he will admit to you when you do good to him.
He will even enter with the progeny of his fathers, but, even in eternity, he will not see the light.
Man, when he was in honor, did not understand. He has been compared to the senseless beasts, and he has become like them.