And in those days John the immerser comes, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, and saying,
Repent ye, for the kingdom of the heavens has approached.
For this is he who was spoken of by Isaiah the prophet, saying, The voice of a man crying in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight.
Now John himself had his raiment of camel's hair, and a leather belt about his waist. And his food was locusts and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all the region of the Jordan went out to him,
and they were immersed by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his immersion, he said to them, Ye offspring of vipers, who showed you to flee from the coming wrath?
Therefore produce fruit worthy of repentance.
And think not to say within yourselves, We have a father, Abraham. For I say to you, that God is able from these stones to raise up children to Abraham.
And even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore not producing good fruit is cut down, and cast into the fire.
I indeed immerse you in water for repentance, but he who comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear. He will immerse you in the Holy Spirit.
Whose winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor. And he will gather his wheat into the storehouse, but he will burn the chaff with unquenchable fire.
Then Jesus comes from Galilee to the Jordan to John to be immersed by him.
But John was preventing him, saying, I have need to be immersed by thee, and thou come to me?
But having answered, Jesus said to him, Allow it now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allows him.
And when Jesus was immersed, he went up straightaway out of the water. And lo, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and coming upon him.
And lo, a voice out of the heavens, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.