Then, Jesus was led up into the wilderness, by the Spirit, to be tempted by the adversary;
and, fasting forty days and forty nights,—afterwards, he hungered.
And, coming near, the tempter said to him,—If thou art God’s, Son, speak! that, these stones, may become, loaves.
But, he, answering, said, It is written,—Not on bread alone, shall man live, but on every declaration coming forth through the mouth of God.
Then, the adversary taketh him with him, unto the holy city,—and he set him upon the pinnacle of the temple;
and saith to him—If thou art God’s, Son, cast thyself down,—for it is written, To his messengers, will he give charge concerning thee; and, on hands, will they bear thee up, lest once thou strike, against a stone, thy foot.
Jesus said to him, Again, it is written,—Thou shalt not put to the test, the Lord thy God.
Again, the adversary taketh him with him, into an exceeding high mountain,—and pointeth out to him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory;
and said to him, All these things, will I give thee,—if thou wilt fall down and worship me.
Then saith Jesus unto him, Withdraw, Satan! for it is written,—The Lord thy God, shalt thou worship, and, to him alone, render divine service.
Then, the adversary leaveth him,—and lo! messengers came near, and began ministering unto him.
And, hearing that, John, had been delivered up, he retired into Galilee;
and, forsaking Nazareth, he came and fixed his dwelling in Capernaum, which was by the lake,—within the bounds of Zebulun and Naphtali:
that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying:
Land of Zebulun, and land of Naphtali, the lake-way across the Jordan,—Galilee of the nations,
The people that was sitting in darkness, a great light, beheld,—and, on them who were sitting in land and shade of death, Light rose on them.
From that time, began Jesus to be making proclamation, and saying,—Repent ye, for the kingdom of the heavens hath drawn near.
And, walking round beside the sea of Galilee, he saw two brethren—Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother,—casting a large fishing-net into the sea, for they were fishers;
and he saith unto them, Come after me,—and I will make you fishers, of men.
And, they, straightway, leaving the nets, followed him.
And, going forward from thence, he saw other two brethren—James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother—in the boat with Zebedee their father, putting in order their nets,—and he called them.
And, they, straightway, leaving the boat and their father, followed him.
And Jesus was going round throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the glad-message of the kingdom,—and curing every disease, and every infirmity, among the people.
And forth went the report of him into all Syria; and they brought unto him all who were sick, with divers diseases and tortures, distressed, demonized and lunatic and paralyzed,—and he cured them.
And there followed him large multitudes—from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judaea, and across the Jordan.