Then Joseph fell upon his father's face and wept upon him and kissed him.
And Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father; and the physicians embalmed Israel.
And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those who are embalmed; and the Egyptians mourned for him seventy days.
And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spoke unto those of the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
My father made me swear, saying, Behold, I die; in my grave which I have dug for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee and bury my father, and I will come again.
And Pharaoh said, Go up and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear.
Then Joseph went up to bury his father, and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,
and all the house of Joseph and his brethren and his father's house; only their little ones and their sheep and their cows, they left in the land of Goshen.
And both chariots and horsemen went up with him, and it was a very great company.
And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which [is] beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation; and [Joseph] made a mourning for his father seven days.
And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This [is] a great mourning of the Egyptians; therefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, which [is] beyond the Jordan.
And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them;
for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace from Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.
And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.
And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him.
And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying,
So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren and their sin, for they did unto thee evil; and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spoke unto him.
And his brethren also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we [are] thy servants.
And Joseph said unto them, Fear not; for [am] I in the place of God?
But as for you, ye thought evil against me; [but] God thought it [out] unto good, to bring to pass that which we see this day, to give life to many people.
Now therefore fear ye not; I will nourish you and your little ones. Thus he comforted them and spoke to their heart.
And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and Joseph lived one hundred and ten years.
And Joseph saw Ephraim's sons unto the third generation; the sons also of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were brought up upon Joseph's knees.
And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die; but God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land unto the land which he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
And Joseph took an oath of the sons of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from here.
So Joseph died, [being] one hundred and ten years old; and they embalmed him, and he was put in an ark in Egypt.: