And it happened, after the death of Saul, David returned from striking the Amalekites. And David remained in Ziklag two days.
And it happened on the third day, behold, a man came in out of the camp from Saul. And his garments were torn, and earth on his head. And it happened as he came to David, he fell to the earth and prostrated himself.
And David said to him, From where do you come? And he said to him, I have escaped out of the camp of Israel.
And David said to him, How did the matter go? Please tell me. And he answered, The people fled from the battle and also a multitude of the people have fallen, and they died, and also Saul and his son Jonathan have died.
And David said to the youth who was telling him, How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?
And the youth who was telling him said, By chance I happened to be on Mount Gilboa. And behold, Saul was leaning on his spear. And, behold, the chariots and the masters of horses closely followed him!
And he turned behind him and he saw me and called to me. And I said, Behold me.
And he said to me, Who are you? And I said, I am an Amalekite.
And he said to me, Please stand over me and kill me, for agony has seized me; for all my life is still in me.
And I stood over him and killed him, for I knew that he could not live after his falling. And I took the crown on his head, and the bracelet on his arm, and I brought them to my lord here.
And David took hold on his garments and tore them; and also all the men with him did so.
And they mourned and wept and fasted until the evening, for Saul, and for his son Jonathan, and for the people of Jehovah, and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
And David said to the youth who told him, From where are you? And he said, I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite.
And David said to him, Why were you not afraid to put forth your hand to destroy the anointed of Jehovah?
And David called to one of the young men, and said, Draw near and fall on him. And he struck him, and he died.
And David said to him, Your blood be on your own head, for your mouth has testified against you, saying, I put to death the anointed of Jehovah.
And David sang this death-dirge over Saul, and over his son Jonathan;
and he said to teach the sons of Judah The Song of the Bow. Behold, it is written in the Book of Jashar:
The beauty of Israel is slain on your high places. How are the mighty fallen!
Tell it not in Gath; do not make it known in the streets of Ashkelon, that the daughters of the Philistines not rejoice; that the daughters of the uncircumcised not exult.
Mountains of Gilboa, let not dew or rain be on you, nor fields of offerings; for there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, not being anointed with oil.
From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan did not draw back; and the sword of Saul did not return empty.
Saul and Jonathan! They were beloved and delightful in their lives; and in their death they were not parted. They were swifter than eagles; they were stronger than lions.
Daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you with scarlet delights, who put ornaments of gold on your clothing.
How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain on your high places!
I am distressed over you, my brother Jonathan. You were very delightful to me; your love was wonderful to me, more than the love of women.
How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!