And one of the seven angels who had the seven vials came and talked with me, saying to me, Come here, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot sitting on many waters,
with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and became drunk with the wine of her fornication, those inhabiting the earth.
And he carried me away into a desert by the Spirit. And I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet-colored beast, filled with names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet. And she was gilded with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication.
And on her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled with a great marveling.
And the angel said to me, Why did you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, that has the seven heads and ten horns.
The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to ascend out of the abyss and go into perdition. And those dwelling on the earth will marvel, those whose names were not written in the Book of Life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.
And here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sits.
And there are seven kings; five have fallen, and one is, and the other has not yet come. And when he comes, he must continue a short time.
And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goes into perdition.
And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings, who have received no kingdom yet, but will receive authority as kings one hour with the beast.
These have one mind, and they will give their power and authority to the beast.
These will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them. For He is Lord of lords and King of kings. And those with Him are the called and elect and faithful ones.
And he says to me, The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues,
and the ten horns which you saw on the beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked. And they will eat her flesh and burn her with fire.
For God gave into their hearts to do His mind, and to act with one mind, and to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God will be fulfilled.
And the woman whom you saw is the great city which has a kingdom over the kings of the earth.