And going in, He passed through Jericho.
And, behold, a man called by name Zaccheus; and he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich.
And he was seeking to see Jesus, who He is. And he was not able, because of the crowd, and he was little in stature.
And running ahead, he went up onto a sycamore tree, so that he might see Him; for He was going to pass through that way .
And as He came to the place, looking up, Jesus saw him, and said to him, Zaccheus, hurry, come down, for today I must stay in your house.
And hastening, he came down and welcomed Him, rejoicing.
And seeing, all murmured, saying, He has gone in to stay with a sinful man.
But standing, Zaccheus said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, half of my possessions I give to the poor. And if in anything I accused anyone falsely, I restore it fourfold.
And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, for he also is a son of Abraham.
For the Son of man came to seek and to save the one being lost.
But as they were hearing these things, He spoke, adding a parable, because He was near to Jerusalem, and they thought that the kingdom of God was immediately to be revealed.
Then He said: A certain wellborn man went to a distant country to receive a kingdom for himself, and to return.
And calling ten of his slaves, He gave to them ten minas and said to them, Trade until I come.
But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, We do not desire this one to reign over us.
And it happened as he returned, having received the kingdom, he even said for those slaves to be called to him, those to whom he gave the silver, that he might know what each had gained by trading.
And the first came, saying, Lord, your mina has gained ten minas.
And he said to him, Well done , good slave! Because you were faithful in a least thing, have authority over ten cities.
And the second came, saying, Lord, your mina has made five minas.
And he said to this one also, And you be over five cities.
And another came, saying, Lord, behold your mina which I had kept in a handkerchief.
For I feared you, because you are an exacting man, taking what you did not lay down, and reaping what you did not sow.
But he said to him, I will judge you out of your own mouth, wicked slave. You knew that I am an exacting man, taking what I did not lay down, and reaping what I did not sow.
And why did you not give my silver on the bank table? And coming, I might have exacted it with interest.
And to those standing by, he said, Take the mina from him, and give it to him who has ten minas.
And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas.
For I say to you, To everyone who has, it will be given. And from the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
But these enemies of mine, those not desiring me to reign over them, bring them here and execute them before me.
And saying these things, He went in front, going up to Jerusalem.
And it happened as He drew near to Bethphage and Bethany toward the Mount called Of Olives, He sent two of the disciples,
saying, Go into the village opposite you , in which having entered you will find a colt which has been tied up, on which no one of men ever yet sat. Untying it, bring it .
And if anyone asks, Why do you untie it ? You shall say to them, The Lord has need of it.
And going, those having been sent found as He told them.
And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, Why do you untie the colt?
And they said, The Lord has need of it.
And they led it to Jesus. And throwing their garments on the colt, they put Jesus on it .
And as He went, they were spreading their garments in the highway.
And as He was already drawing near to the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples began rejoicing, to praise God with a loud voice concerning all the works of power which they saw,
saying, "Blessed is the One coming in the name of the Lord," the King. Peace in Heaven, and glory in the highest! Psa. 118:26
And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to Him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples.
And answering, He said to them, I say to you, If these should be silent, the stones will cry out.
And as He drew near, seeing the city, He wept over it,
saying, If you had known, even you, even at least in this day of yours, the things for your peace! But now they were hidden from your eyes.
For the days will come on you, and your enemies will raise up a rampart to you and will surround you and will keep you in on every side,
and will tear you down, and your children in you, and will not leave a stone on a stone, because you did not know the time of your visitation.
And entering into the temple, He began to throw out those selling and buying in it,
saying to them, It has been written, "My house is a house of prayer," but you made it "a den of robbers." Isa. 56:7; Jer. 7:11
And He was teaching day by day in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief men of the people sought to kill Him.
And they did not find what they might do; for all the people hung on Him, listening.