But she  reaches from one end of the world  to the other with full strength,
And ordereth all things  graciously.

Her I loved and sought out from my youth,
And I sought to take her for my bride,
And I became enamoured of her beauty.

She glorifieth her  noble birth in that it is given her to live with God,
And the Sovereign Lord of all loved her.

For she is initiated into the knowledge of God,
And she  chooseth out for him  his works.

But if riches are a desired possession in life,
What is richer than wisdom, which works all things?

And if understanding works,
Who more than  wisdom is an artificer of the things that are?

And if a man loves righteousness,
The fruits of wisdom’s labor are virtues,
For she teaches soberness and understanding, righteousness and courage;
And there is nothing in life for men more profitable than these.

And if a man longeth even for much experience,
She knows  the things of old, and  divineth the things to come:
She understands subtilties of speeches and interpretations of dark sayings:
She foresees signs and wonders, and the issues of seasons and times.

I determined therefore to take her to me to live with me,
Knowing that she is one who would  give me good thoughts  for counsel,
And  encourage me in cares and grief.

Because of her I shall have glory among multitudes,
And honor in the sight of elders, though I be young.

I shall be found of a quick conceit when I give judgement,
And in the presence of  princes I shall be admired.

When I am silent, they shall wait for me;
And when I open my lips, they shall give heed to me;
And if I continue speaking, they shall lay their hand upon their mouth.

Because of her I shall have immortality,
And leave behind an eternal memory to them that come after me.

I shall govern peoples,
And nations shall be subjected to me.

Dread princes shall fear me when they hear of me:
Among my   people I shall show myself a good ruler,  and in war courageous.

When I am come into my house, I shall find rest with her;
For converse with her has no bitterness,
And to live with her has no pain, but gladness and joy.

When I considered these things in myself,
And took thought in my heart how that in kinship to wisdom is immortality,

And in her friendship is good delight,
And in the labors of her hands is wealth that fails not,
And in  assiduous communing with her is understanding,
And great renown in having fellowship with her words,
I went about seeking how to take her to myself.

Now I was  a child of parts, and a good soul fell to my lot;

Nay rather, being good, I came into a body undefiled.

But perceiving that I could not otherwise  possess wisdom  except God gave her  me
(Yes and to know  by whom the grace is given, this too  came of understanding),
I pleaded with the Lord and implored him, and with my whole heart I said,
