Then, will the kingdom of the heavens become like unto, ten virgins, who, taking their torches, went forth to meet the bridegroom.
Now, five of them, were foolish, and, five, prudent.
For, the foolish—though they took, their torches, took not with them, oil:
But, the prudent, took oil in their vessels, with their torches.
Now, the bridegroom, delaying, they all became drowsy, and were sleeping.
And, at midnight, an outcry hath been made—Lo! the bridegroom! Be going forth to meet him!
Then, arose all those virgins, and trimmed their torches.
And, the foolish, unto the prudent, said—Give us of your oil, because, our torches, are going out.
But the prudent, answered, saying—Lest once, by any means, there be not enough for us and you, be going rather unto them that sell, and buy for yourselves
But, as they were going away to buy, the bridegroom came; and, they who were ready, went in with him, into the marriage-feast, and, the door was locked.
But, afterwards, came the other virgins also, saying—Lord! Lord! open unto us!
And, he, answering, said—Verily, I say unto you, I know you not.
Be watching, therefore, because ye know, neither the day nor the hour.
For it is, just as a man, who, going from home, called his own servants, and delivered up to them his substance;
And, to one, indeed, gave he five talents, and, to another, two, and, to another, one,—to each according to his particular ability, and went from home.
Straightway, he who, the five talents, had received, went and traded with them, and gained other five:
Likewise, he of the two, gained other two:
But, he who the one had received, went away, and digged up ground, and hid the silver of his lord.
And, after a long time, cometh the lord of those servants, and reckoneth with them.
And he who the five talents had received, coming forward, brought other five talents, saying,—Lord! five talents, to me, thou didst deliver up: See! other five talents, I gained.
His lord said unto him—Well-done! good and faithful servant,—Over a few things wast thou faithful, over many things, will I appoint thee: Enter into the joy of thy lord.
He also of the two talents, coming forward, said—Lord! two talents, to me, didst thou deliver up: See! other two talents, I gained.
His lord said unto him—Well-done! good and faithful servant,—Over a few things, wast thou faithful, over many things, will I appoint thee: Enter into the joy of thy lord.
But he also who, the one talent, had received, coming forward, said—Lord I knew thee, that thou art a, hard, man, reaping, where thou hast not sown,—and gathering, whence thou hast not winnowed;
And, overcome with fear, I went away, and hid thy talent in the ground: See! thou hast what is thine!
And his lord, answering, said unto him—O wicked servant, and cowardly, knewest thou that I reap, where I have not sown, and gather, whence I have not winnowed?
It was binding on thee, therefore, to cast my silver into the money-changers,—and, I, when I, came, might have obtained what was mine, with interest.
Therefore take away, from him, the talent, and give unto him that hath the ten talents;
For, to every one that hath, shall be given, and he shall be made to abound; but, from him that hath not, even what he hath, shall be taken away from him:
And, the unprofitable servant, cast ye forth into the darkness, outside: There, shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
But, whensoever the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the messengers with him, then will he sit on his throne of glory;
And there will be gathered before him, all the nations, and he will separate them one from another, just as, the shepherd! separateth the sheep from the goats,—
And he will set, the sheep, indeed, on his right hand, but, the goats, on the left.
Then, will the king say to those on his right hand: Come ye, the blessed of my Father! Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world;
For I hungered, and ye gave me to eat, I thirsted, and ye gave me drink, a stranger, was I, and ye took me home,
Naked, and ye clothed me, sick, and ye visited me, in prison, was I, and ye came unto me.
Then, will the righteous answer him, saying: Lord! when, saw we thee—hungry, and fed thee, or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
And, when, saw we thee—a stranger, and took thee home, or naked, and clothed thee?
And, when, saw we thee—sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
And, answering, the king will say unto them: Verily, I say unto you—Inasmuch as ye did it unto one of these my least brethren, unto me, ye did it.
Then, will he say unto those also, on his left hand: Depart ye from me, accursed ones! Into the age-abiding fire, which hath been prepared for the adversary and his messengers;
For I hungered, and ye gave me not to eat, [and] I was thirsty, and ye gave me not to drink,
A stranger, was I, and ye took me not home, naked, and ye clothed me not, sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not.
Then, will, they also, answer, saying: Lord! when saw we thee—hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and ministered not unto thee?
Then, will he answer them, saying: Verily, I say unto you—Inasmuch as ye did it not, unto one of these least, neither unto me, did ye it.
And, these, shall go away, into, age-abiding, correction, but, the righteous, into, age-abiding, life.