In that day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the seaside.
And great crowds were gathered to Him, so that He went into a boat and sat. And all the crowd stood on the shore.
And He spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, the sower went out to sow.
And as he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them.
Some fell on stony places, where they did not have much earth. And they sprang up immediately, because they had no deepness of earth.
And the sun rising, they were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered away.
And some fell among thorns. And the thorns sprung up and choked them.
And some fell on the good ground and yielded fruit, indeed one a hundredfold, and one sixty, and one thirty.
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
And the disciples said to Him, Why do You speak to them in parables?
He answered and said to them, Because it is given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of Heaven, but it is not given to them.
For whoever has, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance. But whoever does not have, from him shall be taken away even that which he has.
Therefore I speak to them in parables, because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not; nor do they understand.
And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah which said, "By hearing you shall hear and shall not understand; and seeing you shall see and shall not perceive;
for this people's heart has become gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and they have closed their eyes, lest at any time they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and should understand with  their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them."
But blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear.
For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men have desired to see those things which you see, and have not seen them; and to hear what you hear, and have not heard them.
Therefore hear the parable of the sower.
When anyone hears the Word of the kingdom and does not understand it, then the wicked one comes and catches away that which was sown in his heart. This is the seed sown by the wayside.
But that which was sown on the stony places is this: he who hears the Word and immediately receives it with joy.
But he has no root in himself, and is temporary. For when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, he immediately stumbles.
And that sown into the thorns is this: he who hears the word; and the anxiety of this world, and the deceit of riches, choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful.
But that sown on the good ground is this: "he who hears the Word and understands; who also bears fruit and produces" one truly a hundredfold; and one sixty; and one thirty.
He put out another parable to them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field.
But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed darnel among the wheat and went his way.
But when the blade had sprung up and had produced fruit, then the darnel also appeared.
So the servants of the householder came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? Then where have the darnel come from?
He said to them, An enemy has done this. The servants said to him, Then do you want us to go and gather them up?
But he said, No, lest while you gather up the darnel you also root up the wheat with them.
Let both grow together until the harvest. And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, First gather together the darnel and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my granary.
He put out another parable to them, saying, The kingdom of Heaven is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field;
which indeed is the least of all seeds, but when it is grown it is the greatest among herbs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in its branches.
He spoke another parable to them: The kingdom of Heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened.
Jesus spoke all these things to the crowds in parables, and He did not speak to them without a parable,
so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying, "I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world."
Then sending the crowds away, Jesus went into the house. And His disciples came to Him, saying, Explain to us the parable of the darnel of the field.
He answered and said to them, He who sows the good seed is the Son of man;
the field is the world; the good seed are the sons of the kingdom; but the darnel are the sons of the evil one.
The enemy who sowed them is the Devil; the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels.
Therefore as the darnel are gathered and burned in the fire, so it shall be in the end of this world.
The Son of man shall send out His angels, and they shall gather out of His kingdom all things that offend, and those who do iniquity,
and shall cast them into a furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Then the righteous shall shine out like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Again, the kingdom of Heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which when a man has found it, he hides it, and for the joy of it goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field.
Again, the kingdom of Heaven is like a merchant seeking beautiful pearls;
who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it.
Again, the kingdom of Heaven is like a net that was cast into the sea, and gathered some of every kind;
which, when it was full, they drew to shore, and sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but threw the bad away.
So it shall be at the end of the world. The angels shall come out and separate the wicked from among the just,
and shall cast them into the furnace of fire. There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Jesus said to them, Have you understood all these things? They said to Him, Yes, Lord.
Then He said to them, Therefore every scribe who is instructed to the kingdom of Heaven is like a man who is a householder, who brings out things new and old out of his treasure.
And it happened when Jesus finished these parables, He departed from there.
And when He had come into His own country, He taught them in their synagogue, so much so that they were astonished and said, From where does this man have this wisdom and these mighty works?
Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And his brothers, James and Joses and Simon and Judas,
and his sisters, are they not all with us? Then from where does this man have all these things?
And they were offended in Him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country and in his own house.
And He did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief.