When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was uncovered, and the evil of Samaria. For they have worked falsehood; and a thief comes; a troop of robbers plunders outside.
And they do not say within their hearts that I remember all their evil. Now their own doings have hemmed them in. They are before My face.
They make the king glad with their evil, and the rulers with their lies.
They are all adulterers, like an oven heated by the baker; he ceases from stirring, from kneading the dough while it is leavened.
In the day of our king, the rulers have sickened themselves with the heat of wine. He stretches out his hand with scorners.
For they have brought their heart near, like an oven, while they lie in wait. Their baker sleeps all night; in the morning, it burns like a flaming fire.
They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges. All their kings have fallen; not one among them calls to Me.
Ephraim mixed himself among the peoples. Ephraim is a cake not turned.
Strangers have eaten up his strength, yet he does not know. Yea, gray hairs are sprinkled here and there on him, yet he does not know.
And the pride of Israel testifies to his face. And they do not return to Jehovah their God, nor seek Him in all this.
Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart; they call to Egypt; they go to Assyria.
When they go, I will spread My net over them; I will bring them down like the birds of the heavens; I will chastise them, as a report to their congregation.
Woe to them! For they have fled from Me. Ruin to them! For they have transgressed against Me. Though I would redeem them, yet they have spoken lies against Me.
And they have not cried to Me with their heart, when they howled on their beds. They gather themselves for grain and wine; they turn against Me.
Though I bound, I made their arms strong; yet they think evil against Me.
They return, but not to the Most High. They are like a treacherous bow. Their rulers shall fall by the sword, from the rage of the tongue. This shall be their scorn in the land of Egypt.