And it came to pass, in those days, when the Philistines gathered together their hosts for war, to fight with Israel, that Achish said unto David, Thou must, know, that, with me, shalt thou go forth in the host, thou and thy men.
And David said unto Achish, Therefore, now, shalt thou know what thy servant can do. And Achish said unto David, Therefore, keeper of my head, will I appoint thee, all the days.
Now, Samuel, was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city,—Saul, moreover had put away them who had familiar spirits and them who were oracles, out of the land.
So then the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came in, and encamped in Shunem,—and Saul gathered together all Israel, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And, when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled exceedingly.
Then Saul enquired of Yahweh, but Yahweh answered him not,—neither by Dreams, nor by the Lights, nor by prophets.
Then said Saul unto his servants—Seek me out a woman that owneth a familiar spirit, that I may even go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Lo! there is a woman that owneth a familiar spirit in En-dor.
Saul therefore disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and departed—he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night,—and he said—Divine for me, I pray thee, by the familiar spirit, and bring up for me—whomsoever I shall name unto thee.
And the woman said unto him—Lo! thou, knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off them who have familiar spirits and him who is an oracle, out of the land,—wherefore, then, art thou striking at my life, to put me to death?
So then Saul sware unto her by Yahweh, saying,—By the life of Yahweh, there shall no punishment befall thee for this thing.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up for thee? And he said, Samuel, bring thou up for me.
And, when the woman saw Samuel, she made outcry with a loud voice,—and the woman spake unto Saul, saying—Wherefore hast thou deceived me, thou thyself being Saul?
And the king said unto her—Be not afraid, but what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, A god, saw I, coming up out of the earth.
And he said to her—What was his form? And she said—An old man, coming up, he being wrapped about with a robe. Then Saul knew, that it was, Samuel, so he inclined his face to the earth, and bowed himself down.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Wherefore hast thou disquieted me, by bringing me up? And Saul said—I am in sore distress, for, the Philistines, are making war against me, and, God, hath turned away from me, and answereth me no more—either by means of the prophets, or by dreams, therefore have I even called for thee, to let me know, what I am to do.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore, then, shouldst thou ask me,—when, Yahweh, hath turned away from thee, and hath come to be with thy neighbour?
Therefore hath Yahweh done for him, as he spake by me,—yea Yahweh hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to a neighbour of thine—to David.
As thou didst not hearken unto the voice of Yahweh, neither didst execute the glow of his anger upon Amalek, therefore, this thing, hath Yahweh done unto thee this day;
that Yahweh may deliver, Israel also, with thee, into the hand of the Philistines, and, to-morrow, thou and thy sons with thee are about to fall,—the host of Israel also, will Yahweh deliver, into the hand of the Philistines.
Then Saul hastened, and fell prostrate—the whole length of him—to the earth, and was sore afraid, at the words of Samuel, and indeed, no, strength, was left in him, for he had not eaten food all the day and all the night.
And the woman came unto Saul, and, when she saw that he was greatly terrified, she said unto him—Lo! thy handmaid hearkened unto thy voice, and I put my life into my hand, and heard thy words which thou didst speak unto me.
Now, therefore, I pray thee, hearken, thou also, unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a morsel of food, and eat thou,—that there may be in thee strength, when thou goest on thy journey.
But he refused, and said—I will not eat. But, when his servants, and the woman also, strongly urged him, then hearkened he unto their voice,—and rose up from the earth, and sat on the bed.
Now, the woman, had a calf fattening, in the shed. So she hastened, and sacrificed it,—and took meal, and kneaded, and baked thereof, unleavened cakes;
and brought near before Saul and before his servants, and they did eat. Then rose they up and departed, the same night.