And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to prove Solomon with enigmas at Jerusalem, with a very great host and camels that bore spices and gold in abundance and precious stones. And when she was come to Solomon, she spoke with him of all that was in her heart.
But Solomon told her all her questions, and nothing remained that Solomon did not declare unto her.
And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon and the house that he had built
and the food of his table and the seat of his servants and the attendance of his ministers and their apparel, his butlers also and their apparel, and his sacrifices which he sacrificed in the house of the LORD, there was no more spirit in her.
And she said to the king, [It was] a true report which I heard in my own land of thy word and of thy wisdom,
but I did not believe their words until I came, and my eyes had seen [it], and, behold, not even the half of the greatness of thy wisdom was told me, [for] thou dost exceed the fame that I heard.
Blessed [are] thy men and blessed [are] these thy servants, who stand continually before thee and hear thy wisdom.
The LORD thy God be blessed, who delighted in thee to set thee on his throne, [to be] king for the LORD thy God because thy God loved Israel, to establish them for ever, therefore, he made thee king over them, to do judgment and righteousness.
And she gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold and of spices great abundance and precious stones; never [had there been] any such spice as the queen of Sheba gave King Solomon.
Also the servants of Hiram and the servants of Solomon, who had brought gold from Ophir, brought brazil wood and precious stones.
And the king made [of] the brazil wood stairs to the house of the LORD and to the king's palace and harps and psalteries for the singers, and such [wood] had never been seen before in the land of Judah.
And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatever she asked, more than what she had brought unto the king. Then she turned and went away to her own land with her servants.
Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold,
besides [that which] the traders and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land brought gold and silver to Solomon.
And King Solomon made two hundred bucklers [of] beaten gold; six hundred [shekels] of beaten gold went to each buckler.
And [he made] three hundred shields [of] beaten gold; three hundred [shekels] of gold went to each shield. And the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
Moreover, the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with pure gold.
And [there were] six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold, [which were] fastened to the throne, and stays on each side of the seat, and two lions standing by the stays.
There were also twelve lions standing on one side and on the other upon the six steps. There was not the like made in any kingdom.
And all the drinking vessels of King Solomon [were of] gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon [were of] pure gold. In the days of Solomon silver was not esteemed.
For the king's ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Hiram, and every three years the ships came from Tarshish bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.
And King Solomon passed all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom.
And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, that God had put in his heart.
And of these, each his present, vessels of silver and vessels of gold and raiment, arms, spices, horses, and mules, every year.
And Solomon also had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, whom he bestowed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
And he reigned over all the kings from the river even unto the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt.
And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and he made cedar trees as the sycamore trees that [are] in the low plains in abundance.
And they brought unto Solomon horses out of Egypt and out of all lands.
Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, [are] they not written in the books of Nathan, the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah, the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo, the seer against Jeroboam, the son of Nebat?
And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.
And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David, his father; and Rehoboam, his son, reigned in his stead.: