And when he had completed all his words in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum.
Now the servant of a certain centurion was dying, due to an illness. And he was very dear to him.
And when he had heard about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to him, petitioning him, so that he would come and heal his servant.
And when they had come to Jesus, they petitioned him anxiously, saying to him: “He is worthy that you should provide this to him.
For he loves our nation, and he has built a synagogue for us.”
Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying: “Lord, do not trouble yourself. For I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof.
Because of this, I also did not consider myself worthy to come to you. But say the word, and my servant shall be healed.
For I also am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
And upon hearing this, Jesus was amazed. And turning to the multitude following him, he said, “Amen I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith.”
And those who had been sent, upon returning to the house, found that the servant, who had been sick, was now healthy.
And it happened afterwards that he went to a city, which is called Nain. And his disciples, and an abundant crowd, went with him.
Then, when he had drawn near to the gate of the city, behold, a deceased person was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a large crowd from the city was with her.
And when the Lord had seen her, being moved by mercy over her, he said to her, “Do not weep.”
And he drew near and touched the coffin. Then those who carried it stood still. And he said, “Young man, I say to you, arise.”
And the dead youth sat up and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother.
Then fear fell over all of them. And they magnified God, saying: “For a great prophet has risen up among us,” and, “For God has visited his people.”
And this word about him went out to all of Judea and to the entire surrounding region.
And the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things.
And John called two of his disciples, and he sent them to Jesus, saying, “Are you he who is to come, or should we wait for another?”
But when the men had come to him, they said: “John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying: ‘Are you he who is to come, or should we wait for another?’ ”
Now in that same hour, he cured many of their diseases and wounds and evil spirits; and to many of the blind, he gave sight.
And responding, he said to them: “Go and report to John what you have heard and seen: that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead rise again, the poor are evangelized.
And blessed is anyone who has not taken offense at me.”
And when the messengers of John had withdrawn, he began to speak about John to the crowds. “What did you go out to the desert to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
Then what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Behold, those who are in costly apparel and finery are in the houses of kings.
Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Certainly, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
This is he of whom it is written: “Behold, I send my Angel before your face, who shall prepare your way before you.”
For I say to you, among those born of women, no one is greater than the prophet John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”
And upon hearing this, all the people and the tax collectors justified God, by being baptized with the baptism of John.
But the Pharisees and the experts in the law despised the counsel of God concerning themselves, by not being baptized by him.
Then the Lord said: “Therefore, to what shall I compare the men of this generation? And to what are they similar?
They are like children sitting in the marketplace, talking with one another, and saying: ‘We sang to you, and you did not dance. We lamented, and you did not weep.’
For John the Baptist came, neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’
The Son of man came, eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Behold, a voracious man and a drinker of wine, a friend of tax collectors and of sinners.’
But wisdom is justified by all her children.”
Then certain Pharisees petitioned him, so that they might eat with him. And he went into the house of the Pharisee, and he reclined at table.
And behold, a woman who was in the city, a sinner, found out that he was reclining at table in the house of the Pharisee, so she brought an alabaster container of ointment.
And standing behind him, beside his feet, she began to wash his feet with tears, and she wiped them with the hair of her head, and she kissed his feet, and she anointed them with ointment.
Then the Pharisee, who had invited him, upon seeing this, spoke within himself, saying, “This man, if he were a prophet, would certainly know who and what kind of woman is this, who is touching him: that she is a sinner.”
And in response, Jesus said to him, “Simon, I have something to say to you.” So he said, “Speak, Teacher.”
“A certain creditor had two debtors: one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
And since they did not have the ability to repay him, he forgave them both. So then, which of them loves him more?”
In response, Simon said, “I suppose that it is he to whom he forgave the most.” And he said to him, “You have judged correctly.”
And turning to the woman, he said to Simon: “Do you see this woman? I entered into your house. You gave me no water for my feet. But she has washed my feet with tears, and has wiped them with her hair.
You gave no kiss to me. But she, from the time that she entered, has not ceased to kiss my feet.
You did not anoint my head with oil. But she has anointed my feet with ointment.
Because of this, I tell you: many sins are forgiven her, because she has loved much. But he who is forgiven less, loves less.”
Then he said to her, “Your sins are forgiven you.”
And those who sat at table with him began to say within themselves, “Who is this, who even forgives sins?”
Then he said to the woman: “Your faith has brought you salvation. Go in peace.”