Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And he did not do that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah like David his father,
but he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and also made molten images for the Baalim.
Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and burnt his sons in the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom Jehovah cast out before the sons of Israel.
And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.
Therefore Jehovah his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria. And they smote him, and carried away of his a great multitude of captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with a great slaughter.
For Pekah the son of Remaliah killed in Judah a hundred and twenty thousand in one day, all of them valiant men, because they had forsaken Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, killed Maaseiah the king's son, and Azrikam the ruler of the house, and Elkanah who was next to the king.
And the sons of Israel carried away captive of their brothers two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and also took away much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.
But a prophet of Jehovah was there, whose name was Oded. And he went out to meet the army that came to Samaria, and said to them, Behold, because Jehovah, the God of your fathers, was angry with Judah, he has delivered them into your hand. And ye have slain them in a rage which has reached up to heaven.
And now ye propose to keep under the sons of Judah and Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen to you. Are there not even with you trespasses of your own against Jehovah your God?
Now hear me therefore, and send back the captives that ye have taken captive of your brothers. For the fierce wrath of Jehovah is upon you.
Then certain of the heads of the sons of Ephraim, Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against those who came from the war,
and said to them, Ye shall not bring in the captives here. For ye propose that which will bring upon us a trespass against Jehovah, to add to our sins and to our trespass. For our trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.
So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the rulers and all the assembly.
And the men who have been mentioned by name rose up, and took the captives, and with the spoil clothed all who were naked among them, and dressed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink, and anointed them, and carried all the feeble of them upon donkeys, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brothers. Then they returned to Samaria.
At that time king Ahaz sent to the kings of Assyria to help him.
For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah, and carried away captives.
The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the lowland, and of the South of Judah, and had taken Beth-shemesh, and Aijalon, and Gederoth, and Soco with the towns of it, and Timnah with the towns of it, also Gimzo and the towns of it. And they dwelt there.
For Jehovah brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel, for he had dealt wantonly in Judah, and trespassed severely against Jehovah.
And Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria came to him, and distressed him, but did not strengthen him.
For Ahaz took away a portion out of the house of Jehovah, and out of the house of the king and of the rulers, and gave it to the king of Assyria, but it did not help him.
And in the time of his distress he trespassed yet more against Jehovah, this same king Ahaz.
For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus, which smote him. And he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, therefore I will sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But they were the ruin of him, and of all Israel.
And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors of the house of Jehovah. And he made altars for him in every corner of Jerusalem.
And in every city of Judah he made high places to burn incense to other gods, and provoked to anger Jehovah, the God of his fathers.
Now the rest of his acts, and all his ways, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, even in Jerusalem. For they did not bring him into the sepulchers of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.