And he made the altar of burnt offering of acacia-wood. Its length was five cubits, and its breadth five cubits, square; and its height three cubits.
And he made its horns on its four corners. Its horns were of it. And he overlaid it with bronze.
And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the basins, the flesh-hooks, and the fire-pans. All the vessels of it he made of bronze.
And he made a bronze grate of network for the altar, under the compass of it, beneath to the middle of it.
And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of bronze, places for the staves.
And he made the staves of acacia-wood and overlaid them with bronze.
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it with. He made it hollow with boards.
And he made the laver of bronze, and its base bronze, out of the mirrors of serving women who assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And he made the court. On the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined bleached linen, a hundred cubits.
Their pillars were twenty, and their bronze sockets twenty. The hooks of the pillar and their bands were of silver.
And for the north side, a hundred by the cubit, their pillars twenty, and their twenty sockets bronze. The hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver.
And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. The hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver.
And for the east side eastward fifty cubits.
The hangings of the one side were fifteen cubits, and their pillars three, and their sockets three.
And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and that hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three.
All the hangings of the court all around were of fine twined bleached linen.
And the sockets for the pillars were of bronze. The hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver. And the overlaying of their capitals was of silver. And all the pillars of the court were banded with silver.
And the screen for the gate of the court was needlework: blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen. And it was twenty cubits long, and the height and the width five cubits, to match the hangings of the court.
And the pillars were four, and their bronze sockets four; their hooks silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their bands silver.
And all the pins of the tabernacle and of the court all around, were of bronze.
This is the sum of the tabernacle, of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was counted, according to the command of Moses, for the service of the Levites by the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.
And Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses.
And with him was Aholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a skillful workman, and an embroiderer in blue and in purple and in scarlet and bleached linen.
All the gold that was used for the work in all the work of the sanctuary, even the gold of the offering, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
And the silver from those numbered of the congregation was a hundred talents, and seventeen hundred seventy-five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
a bekah for every man, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for everyone that went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred three thousand, five hundred fifty men.
And the sockets of the sanctuary were cast of the hundred talents of silver, and the sockets of the veil also, a hundred sockets of the hundred talents, a talent for a socket.
And he made hooks for the pillars out of the seventeen hundred seventy-five shekels, and overlaid their capitals and joined them.
And the bronze of the wave offering was seventy talents, and twenty-four hundred shekels,
and with it he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the bronze altar, and the bronze grate for it, and all the vessels of the altar,
and the sockets of the court all around, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court all around bronze.