For the Leader. A Psalm of David.
I waited patiently for HaShem; and He inclined unto me, and heard my cry.
He brought me up also out of the tumultuous pit, out of the miry clay; and He set my feet upon a rock, He established my goings.
And He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our G-d; many shall see, and fear, and shall trust in HaShem.
Happy is the man that hath made HaShem his trust, and hath not turned unto the arrogant, nor unto such as fall away treacherously.
Many things hast Thou done, O HaShem my G-d, even Thy wonderful works, and Thy thoughts toward us; there is none to be compared unto Thee! If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be told.
Sacrifice and meal-offering Thou hast no delight in; mine ears hast Thou opened; burnt-offering and sin-offering hast Thou not required.
Then said I: 'Lo, I am come with the roll of a book which is prescribed for me;
I delight to do Thy will, O my G-d; yea, Thy law is in my inmost parts.'
I have preached righteousness in the great congregation, lo, I did not refrain my lips; O HaShem, Thou knowest.
I have not hid Thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared Thy faithfulness and Thy salvation; I have not concealed Thy mercy and Thy truth from the great congregation.
Thou, O HaShem, wilt not withhold Thy compassions from me; let Thy mercy and Thy truth continually preserve me.
For innumerable evils have compassed me about, mine iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart hath failed me.
Be pleased, O HaShem, to deliver me; O HaShem, make haste to help me.
Let them be ashamed and abashed together that seek after my soul to sweep it away; let them be turned backward and brought to confusion that delight in my hurt.
Let them be appalled by reason of their shame that say unto me: 'Aha, aha.'
Let all those that seek Thee rejoice and be glad in Thee; let such as love Thy salvation say continually: 'The HaShem be magnified.'
But, as for me, that am poor and needy, the L-rd will account it unto me; Thou art my help and my deliverer; O my G-d, tarry not.