And the rulers of the people lived at Jerusalem. The rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of the tenth to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts in other cities.
And the people blessed all the men who willingly offered themselves to live in Jerusalem.
And these are the rulers of the province who lived in Jerusalem; but in the cities of Judah, a man lived in his possession in their cities; Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the temple-slaves, and the sons of Solomon's servants.
And in Jerusalem lived some of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin. From the sons of Judah were Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, of the sons of Perez;
and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Jolarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of Shiloni.
All the sons of Perez who lived in Jerusalem were four hundred and sixty eight mighty men.
And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah.
And after him were Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred and twenty eight.
And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer. And Judah the son of Hassenaah was second over the city.
From the priests were Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraiah, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God.
And their brothers who did the work of the house were eight hundred and twenty two. And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchiah,
and his brothers, rulers of the fathers, two hundred and forty two. And Amashai the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
and their brothers, mighty men, were a hundred and twenty eight. And their overseer was Zabdiel, a son of one of the great men.
Also from the Levites were Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni.
And Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the rulers of the Levites, had the oversight of the outward business of the house of God.
And Mattaniah the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, was the leader of the beginning, he gave thanks with prayer. And Bakbukiah the second from his brothers, and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred and eighty four.
And the gatekeepers: Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers who kept the gates, a hundred and seventy two.
And the rest of Israel, of the priests, the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, each one in his inheritance.
But the temple-slaves lived in Ophel; and Ziha and Gispa were over the temple-slaves.
And the overseer of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micha. Of the sons of Asaph, the singers were over the business of the house of God.
For it was the king's command concerning them, that a certain portion should be for the singers, the matter of the day in his day.
And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabeel, of the sons of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people.
And for the villages, with their fields some of the sons of Judah lived at Kirjath-arba, and in its villages; and at Dibon, and in its villages; and at Jekabzeel, and its villages;
and at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Beth-palet;
and at Hazar-shual, and at Beersheba, and its villages;
and at Ziklag; and at Mekonah, and in its villages;
and at Enrimmon; and at Zareah; and at Jarmuth;
Zanoah; Adullam, and their villages; at Lachish, and its fields; at Azekah, and its villages. And they camped from Beersheba to the valley of Hinnom.
And the sons of Benjamin from Geba were at Michmash; and Aija; and Bethel, and their villages;
and at Anathoth; Nob; Ananiah;
Hazor; Ramah; Gittaim;
Hadid; Zeboim; Neballat;
Lod and Ono, the Valley of Craftsmen.
And of the Levites, the divisions of Judah were for Benjamin.