And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and you shall say to them, When a man or woman shall vow the special vow of a Nazarite, to be separated to Jehovah:
He shall separate from wine and fermented drink; he shall not drink vinegar of wine or vinegar of fermented drink; he shall not drink any juice of the grapes; and he shall not eat dry or moist grapes.
All the days of his separation he shall not eat from all that is made of the vine, from pressed grapes, even to the stem.
All the days of the vow of his separation, a razor shall not pass over his head; he shall be holy until all the days are fulfilled which he has separated to Jehovah. He shall allow the locks of the hair of his head to grow long.
All the days of his separation to Jehovah he shall not go near a dead person.
He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, or for his brother, or for his sister, at their death; because his separation to his God is on his head.
All the days of his separation he shall be holy to Jehovah.
And of any man dies very suddenly beside him, and he defiles his consecrated head, then he shall shave his head on the day of his cleansing, on the seventh day he shall shave it.
And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the priest shall prepare one for a sin offering, and one for a burnt offering, and shall atone for him, because he sinned by reason of the dead body. And he shall dedicate his head on that day.
And he shall separate to Jehovah the days of his consecration, and shall bring a he lamb of the first year for a guilt offering. But the former days shall be void, for his separation was defiled.
And this is the law of the Nazarite: when the days of his separation are fulfilled, bring him in to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,
and he shall offer his offering to Jehovah, one he lamb of the first year, a perfect one, for a burnt offering; and one she lamb, a yearling, a perfect one, for a sin offering; and one ram, a perfect one, for a peace offering;
and a basket of unleavened cakes of flour, cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and their food offering, and their drink offerings.
And the priest shall bring them before Jehovah, and shall offer his sin offering and his burnt offering.
And he shall offer the ram for a sacrifice of peace offering to Jehovah, with the basket of unleavened cakes. And the priest shall offer its food offering and its drink offering.
And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall take the hair of the head of his separation and shall put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace offering.
And the priest shall take the boiled shoulder from the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them on the palms of the Nazarite after he has shaved his separation.
And the priest shall wave them, a wave offering before Jehovah. It is holy to the priest, besides the breast of the wave offering, and besides the leg of the heave offering. And afterward the Nazarite shall drink wine.
This is the law of the Nazarite who vows his offering to Jehovah for his separation, besides that which his hand may get. According to his vow which he vows, so he shall do by the law of his separation.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, In this way you shall bless the sons of Israel, saying to them:
Jehovah bless you and keep you;
Jehovah cause His face to shine on you, and be gracious to you;
Jehovah lift up His face to you, and give you peace.
So they shall put My name on the sons of Israel, and I Myself will bless them.