Paul, a prisoner of Messiah Yeshua, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker,
and to Apphia our sister, to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the congregation in your house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Yeshua the Messiah.
I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
hearing of your love, and of the faith which you have toward the Lord Yeshua, and toward all the saints;
that the fellowship of your faith may become effective, in the knowledge of every good thing which is in us in Messiah.
For I have much joy and comfort in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.
Therefore, though I have all boldness in Messiah to command you that which is appropriate,
yet for love's sake I rather beg, being such a one as Paul, the aged, but also a prisoner of Yeshua the Messiah.
I beg you for my child, whom I have become the father of in my chains, Onesimus,
who once was useless to you, but now is useful to you and to me.
I am sending back to you, him who is my very heart,
whom I desired to keep with me, that on your behalf he might serve me in my chains for the Good News.
But I was willing to do nothing without your consent, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but of free will.
For perhaps he was therefore separated from you for a while, that you would have him forever,
no longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much rather to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
If then you count me a partner, receive him as you would receive me.
But if he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, put that to my account.
I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it (not to mention to you that you owe to me even your own self besides).
Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Messiah.
Having confidence in your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even beyond what I say.
Also, prepare a guest room for me, for I hope that through your prayers I will be restored to you.
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Messiah Yeshua, greets you,
as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers.
The grace of our Lord Yeshua the Messiah be with your spirit.