In that day Jehovah with his hard and great and strong sword will punish leviathan the swift serpent, and leviathan the crooked serpent, and he will kill the monster that is in the sea.
In that day is a vineyard of wine. Sing ye to it.
I Jehovah am its keeper, I will water it every moment. Lest any hurt it, I will guard it night and day.
Wrath is not in me. Would that the briers and thorns were against me in battle! I would march upon them. I would burn them together.
Or else let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me. Yea, let him make peace with me.
In days to come Jacob shall take root; Israel shall blossom and bud. And they shall fill the face of the world with fruit.
Has he smitten them as he smote those who smote them? Or are they slain according to the slaughter of those who were slain by them?
In measure, in sending it forth, thou contend with it. He has removed with his rough blast in the day of the east wind.
Therefore by this the iniquity of Jacob shall be forgiven. And this is all the fruit of taking away his sin: that he makes all the stones of the altar as chalkstones that are beaten apart, so that the Asherim and the sun-images shall rise no more.
For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken like the wilderness. There the calf shall feed, and there he shall lie down, and consume the branches of it.
When the boughs of it are withered, they shall be broken off. The women shall come, and set them on fire, for it is a people of no understanding. Therefore he who made them will not have compassion upon them, and he who formed them will show them no favor.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah will beat off his fruit, from the flood of the River to the brook of Egypt. And ye shall be gathered one by one, O ye sons of Israel.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that a great trumpet shall be blown. And they shall come who were ready to perish in the land of Assyria, and those who were outcasts in the land of Egypt. And they shall worship Jehovah in the holy mountain at Jerusalem.