Meanwhile, shalt thou gather together in troops, thou daughter of a troop, siege, hath he laid against us,—with a sceptre, will they smite on the cheek, the judge of Israel!
Thou, therefore, Bethlehem Ephrathah, though, little, to be among the thousands of Judah, out of thee, shall Mine come forth, to be ruler in Israel,—whose comings forth, have been from of old, from the days of age-past time.
Therefore, will he give them up, until the time when, one who is to bring forth, hath brought forth,—and, the remainder of his brethren, return unto the sons of Israel.
Then shall he stand, and tend his flock in the strength of Yahweh, In the excellency of the name of Yahweh his God, have they endured,—For, now, shall he be great unto the ends of the earth;
So shall this one be Prosperity. As for Assyria—when he shall enter our land, and when he shall tread down in our palaces, then will we raise up against him, seven shepherds, and eight princes of mankind.
Then shall they shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in the entrances thereof,—So shall he deliver from Assyria, when he shall enter our land, and when he shall tread down within our bounds.
And, the remnant of Jacob, shall be, in the midst of many peoples, as dew from Yahweh, as myriad drops on plants,—which tarrieth not for man, nor waiteth for the sons of Adam.
And, the remnant of Jacob, shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, as a lion among the beasts of the jungle, as a young lion among flocks of sheep,—who, if he passeth by, both treadeth down—and teareth in pieces, and none can deliver.
Let thy hand be uplifted against thine adversaries,—and, all thine enemies, shall be cut off.
And it shall come to pass, in that day, Declareth Yahweh, That I will cut off thy horses out of thy midst,—and will destroy thy chariots;
And will cut off the cities of thy land,—and will pull down all thy fortresses;
And will cut off incantations, out of thy hand,—and, users of hidden arts, shalt thou not have;
And I will cut off thine images and thy pillars out of thy midst,—and thou shalt not bow thyself down, any more, to the work of thine own hands;
And I will uproot thy Sacred Stems out of thy midst,—and will destroy thy cities:
Then will I execute, with anger and with indignation, vengeance upon the nations,—of which they have not heard.