At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the fame of Jesus.
And he said to his servants, This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead, and because of this, powerful works are working in him.
For seizing John, Herod bound him and put him into prison, because of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip.
For John said to him, It is not lawful for you to have her.
And desiring to kill him, he feared the multitude, because they held him as a prophet.
But a birthday feast for Herod being held, the daughter of Herodias danced in the midst and pleased Herod.
So then he promised with an oath to give her whatever she should ask.
But she being urged on by her mother, she says, Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.
And the king was grieved, but because of the oaths, and those who had reclined with him , he ordered it to be given.
And sending, he beheaded John in the prison.
And his head was brought on a platter and was given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother.
And having come, his disciples took the body and buried it; and coming, they reported to Jesus.
And having heard, Jesus withdrew privately from there in a boat, into a deserted place. And hearing, the crowds followed Him on foot out of the cities.
And going out, Jesus saw a great crowd and was filled with pity toward them. And He healed their infirm ones.
And evening coming, His disciples came near to Him saying, The place is deserted, and the hour is already gone by. Dismiss the crowds, that going away into the villages they may buy provisions for themselves.
But Jesus said to them, They have no need to go away. You give them food to eat.
But they said to Him, We have nothing here except five loaves and two fish.
And He said, Bring them here to Me.
And commanding the crowds to recline on the grass, and taking the five loaves and two fish, looking up to Heaven, He blessed. And breaking, He gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples gave to the crowds.
And all ate and were satisfied. And they took up the left over pieces, twelve hand baskets full.
And the ones eating were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
And immediately Jesus made His disciples get into a boat and to go before Him to the other side until He should dismiss the crowds.
And having dismissed the crowds, He went up into the mountain alone to pray. And evening coming on, He was there alone.
But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, tossed by the waves, for the wind was contrary.
But in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went out to them, walking on the sea.
And seeing Him walking on the sea, the disciples were troubled, saying, It is a ghost! And they cried out from the fear.
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Be comforted! I AM! Do not fear.
And answering, Him, Peter said, Lord, if it is You, command me to come to You on the waters.
And He said, Come! And going down from the boat, Peter walked on the waters to go to Jesus.
But seeing the strong wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me!
And immediately stretching out the hand, Jesus took hold of him, and said to him, Little-faith, why did you doubt?
And coming into the boat, the wind ceased.
And those in the boat came and worshiped Him, saying, Truly, You are the Son of God.
And having passed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret.
And recognizing Him, the men of that place sent to all that neighborhood, and brought to Him all those who had illness.
And they begged Him that they might touch the fringe of His robe. And as many as touched were made perfectly well.