THE WORDS OF AGUR THE SONNE OF JAKEH. The prophecie which ye man spake vnto Ithiel, euen to Ithiel, and Vcal.
Surely I am more foolish then any man, and haue not the vnderstanding of a man in me.
For I haue not learned wisedome, nor atteined to the knowledge of holy things.
Who hath ascended vp to heauen, and descended? Who hath gathered the winde in his fist? Who hath bound the waters in a garment? Who hath established all the endes of the world? What is his name, and what is his sonnes name, if thou canst tell?
Euery worde of God is pure: he is a shield to those, that trust in him.
Put nothing vnto his wordes, least he reproue thee, and thou be found a lyar.
Two things haue I required of thee: denie me them not before I die.
Remooue farre from me vanitie and lyes: giue me not pouertie, nor riches: feede me with foode conuenient for me,
Least I be full, and denie thee, and say, Who is the Lord? or least I be poore and steale, and take the Name of my God in vaine.
Accuse not a seruant vnto his master, lest he curse thee, when thou hast offended.
There is a generation that curseth their father, and doeth not blesse their mother.
There is a generation that are pure in their owne conceite, and yet are not washed from their filthinesse.
There is a generation, whose eies are hautie, and their eye liddes are lifted vp.
There is a generation, whose teeth are as swordes, and their chawes as kniues to eate vp the afflicted out of the earth, and the poore from among men.
The horse leache hath two daughters which crye, Giue, giue. There be three things that will not be satisfied: yea, foure that say not, It is ynough.
The graue, and the barren wombe, the earth that cannot be satisfied with water, and the fire that sayeth not, It is ynough.
The eye that mocketh his father and despiseth the instruction of his mother, let ye rauens of the valley picke it out, and the yong eagles eate it.
There be three thinges hid from me: yea, foure that I knowe not,
The way of an eagle in the aire, the way of a serpent vpon a stone, ye way of a ship in ye middes of the sea, and the way of a man with a maide.
Such is ye way also of an adulterous woman: she eateth and wipeth her mouth, and sayth, I haue not committed iniquitie.
For three things the earth is moued: yea, for foure it cannot susteine it selfe:
For a seruant when he reigneth, and a foole when he is filled with meate,
For the hatefull woman, when she is married, and for a handmaid that is heire to her mistres.
These be foure small things in the earth, yet they are wise and full of wisedome:
The pismires a people not strong, yet prepare they their meate in sommer:
The conies a people not mightie, yet make their houses in the rocke:
The grashopper hath no King, yet goe they forth all by bandes:
The spider taketh holde with her handes, and is in Kings palaces.
There be three thinges that order well their going: yea, foure are comely in going,
A lyon which is strong among beastes, and turneth not at the sight of any:
A lusty grayhound, and a goate, and a King against whom there is no rising vp.
If thou hast bene foolish in lifting thy selfe vp, and if thou hast thought wickedly, lay thine hand vpon thy mouth.
When one churneth milke, he bringeth foorth butter: and he that wringeth his nose, causeth blood to come out: so he that forceth wrath, bringeth foorth strife.