Ho, everyone who thirsts, come ye to the waters. And he who has no money, come ye, buy, and eat. Yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
Why do ye spend money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Hearken diligently to me, and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness.
Incline your ear, and come to me. Hear, and your soul shall live. And I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the faithful holy things of David.
Behold, I have given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples.
Behold, thou shall call a nation that thou do not know. And a nation that does not know thee shall run to thee because of Jehovah thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified thee.
Seek ye Jehovah while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near.
Let the wicked man forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. And let him return to Jehovah, and he will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says Jehovah.
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
For as the rain comes down and the snow from heaven, and returns not there, but waters the earth, and makes it bring forth and bud, and gives seed to the sower and bread to the eater,
so shall my word be that goes forth out of my mouth. It shall not return to me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please. And it shall prosper in the thing to which I sent it.
For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace. The mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the fields shall clap their hands.
Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle tree. And it shall be to Jehovah for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.