Thus let a man regard us as of helpers of Christ, and managers of mysteries of God.
And beyond that, it is sought in managers that any man should be found faithful.
But it is a very small thing to me that I might be appraised by you or by a day of mankind. Yet neither do I appraise myself,
for I know nothing on myself. Yet I have not been made righteous in this, but he who appraises me is the Lord.
Therefore do not judge anything before the time, until the Lord comes who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and make public the deliberations of the hearts. And then praise will come to each man from God.
Now these things, brothers, I applied to myself and Apollos for your sakes, so that in us ye might learn not to think above that which is written, so that ye may not be puffed up, one over the one against the other.
For who makes thee different? And what have thou that thou did not receive? And also if thou received it, why do thou boast as not having received it?
Already ye are filled. Already ye have become rich. Ye reigned without us, and O that ye did indeed reign, so that we also might reign with you.
For I think God has exhibited us the apostles least, as men sentenced to die, because we became a spectacle to the world, both to agents and to men.
We are foolish for the sake of Christ, but ye are wise in Christ. We are weak, but ye are strong. Ye are esteemed, but we are disreputable.
As far as the present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are ill clothed, and are treated roughly, and are homeless.
And we toil, working with our own hands. Being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we endure;
being slandered, we entreat. We became as trash of the world, an offscouring of all things, until now.
I do not write these things shaming you, but I warn you as my beloved children.
For though ye have countless instructors in Christ, yet not many fathers. For in Christ Jesus I begot you through the good news.
I beseech you therefore, become followers of me.
Because of this I sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, just as I teach everywhere in every congregation.
But as of me not coming to you, some men are puffed up.
But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord should will, and I will know, not the word of those who are puffed up, but the power.
For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.
What do ye want? Should I come to you with a rod, or in love and a spirit of meekness?