And, when, the queen of Sheba, heard the report of Solomon, as pertaining to the Name of Yahweh, she came to prove him, with abstruse questions.
Yea she came to Jerusalem with a very heavily-laden train, of camels bearing spices, and gold in great abundance, and precious stones,—and, when she was come to Solomon, she spake unto him all that was near her heart;
and Solomon answered her all her questions,—there was nothing hidden from the king, which he told her not.
And, when the queen of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Solomon,—and the house which he had built;
and the food of his table, and the seated assembly of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers with their apparel, and his cupbearers, and his ascent by which he ascended unto the house of Yahweh, there was in her no more spirit.
And she said unto the king, True, was the word which I heard in mine own land,—concerning thine affairs, and concerning thy wisdom.
Howbeit I believed not the words, until that I had come and mine own eyes had seen, and lo! there had not been told me, the half,—thou dost exceed, in wisdom and prosperity, even the report which I heard!
How happy, are thy wives, how happy, are these thy servants,—who do stand before thee continually, who hear thy wisdom!
Yahweh thy God be blessed, who delighted in thee, to set thee upon the throne of Israel,—because Yahweh loveth Israel unto times age-abiding, therefore hath he appointed thee to be king, to execute justice and righteousness.
And she gave unto the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and spices in great abundance, and precious stones,—there came in no more, such spice for abundance, as that which the queen of Sheba gave unto King Solomon.
Moreover also, the fleet of Hiram, which brought gold from Ophir, brought in, from Ophir sandal-wood in great abundance, and precious stones.
So the king made of the sandal-wood a footpath to the house of Yahweh, and to the house of the king, lyres also and harps, for the singers,—there hath neither come in such sandal-wood, nor been seen, unto this day.
And, when, King Solomon, had given unto the queen of Sheba, all her desire, which she asked, besides that which he gave her as the bounty of King Solomon, she turned, and went to her own land, she and her servants.
And it came to pass that, the weight of the gold which came in unto Solomon in one year, was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold;
besides the tribute of the subjugated, and of the travelling merchants,—and of all the kings of Arabia, and the pashas of the land.
And King Solomon made two hundred shields, of beaten gold, six hundred [shekels] of gold, laid he upon one shield;
and three hundred bucklers, of beaten gold, one hundred and fifty shekels of gold, laid he upon one buckler,—and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
And the king made a great throne of ivory,—and overlaid it with gold from Uphaz.
There were, six steps, to the throne, and there was, a circular top, to the throne, behind it, and there were supports on this side and on that, unto the place of the seat,—with two lions standing beside the supports;
and, twelve lions, were standing there, upon the six steps, on this side and on that,—there had never been made the like, for any of the kingdoms.
And, all the drinking vessels of King Solomon, were of gold, and, all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon, were of pure gold,—none was of silver, it was accounted in the days of Solomon, as nothing.
For, a fleet of Tarshish, had the king, at sea, with the fleet of Hiram,—once in three years, came in the fleet of Tarshish, bringing gold and silver, ivory and apes, and peacocks.
So King Solomon became greater than any of the kings of the earth,—for riches and for wisdom.
And, all the earth, did seek the face of Solomon,—to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart.
And, they, did bring every man his present—vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and garments, and armour, and spices, horses and mules,—a rate of a year in a year.
And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen, and so it was that he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen,—for whom he found place in the chariot cities, and near the king, in Jerusalem.
And the king caused silver in Jerusalem to be as stones,—cedars also, caused he to be as the sycamores that are in the lowlands, for abundance.
And the horses that Solomon had were, an export, out of Egypt,—and, a company of the merchants of the king, used to fetch, a drove, at a price,
And a chariot came up and forth out of Egypt, for six hundred shekels of silver and a horse for a hundred and fifty,—and, so, for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, by their means, came they forth.