At that time, Declareth Yahweh, Shall they bring forth, The bones of the kings of Judah, and The bones of his princes, and The bones of the priests, and The bones of the prophets, and The bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Out of their graves,
And shall spread them out—To the sun, and To the moon, and To all the host of the heavens, Whom they have loved, And whom they have served, And after whom they have walked, And whom they have sought, And to whom they have bowed themselves down,—They shall not be gathered, Neither shall they be buried, As heaps of dung on the face of the ground, shall they be.
Then shall, death, be chosen rather than life, by all the remnant of them that remain, of this wicked family,—in all the places, whither I have driven them, Declareth Yahweh of hosts.
Therefore shalt thou say unto them—Thus, saith Yahweh, Will men fall and not arise? Will one turn away, and not come back?
Wherefore hath this people of Jerusalem apostatized with an enduring apostacy,—Taken fast hold of deceit, Refused to come back?
I hearkened and heard—Not aright, did they speak,—Not a man, repented him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done! They have every one, turned to their course again, Like a horse sweeping on through the battle.
Even the stork in the heavens knoweth her appointed times, And the turtle and the swallow and the crane, observe the season for coming; But my people know not the just sentence of Yahweh.
How can ye say, Wise, are, we, And the law of Yahweh, is with us? But indeed lo! falsely, hath dealt the false pen of the scribes!
Ashamed are the wise, dismayed and captured! Lo! the word of Yahweh, have they rejected, And, what wisdom, have, they?
Therefore, will I give—Their wives to others, Their fields to such as shall take possession of them, For from the least, even unto the greatest, Every one, is, wholly given to extortion: From the prophet even unto the priest, Every one, dealeth, falsely.
And so they have healed the grievous wound of the daughter of my people, slightly,—Saying, Peace! peace! when there was no peace!
Were they led to turn pale because an abominable thing, they had done? Nay! they did not, at all turn pale Nay! they did not so much as know how to exhibit shame! Therefore, shall they fall among them who are falling, In the time when they are punished, shall they be overthrown, Saith Yahweh:
I will, surely remove, them, declareth Yahweh: There shall be no grapes on the vine Nor figs on the fig-tree, Even the leaf, hath faded, Though I have given them these things, they shall pass away from them.
Why are, we, sitting still? Gather yourselves together and let us enter the defenced cities And let us be silent there,—For, Yahweh our God, hath put us to silence And made us drink poisoned water, Because we have sinned against Yahweh.
A waiting For prosperity, but no welfare,—For a time of healing, but lo! terror.
From Dan, was heard the snorting of his horses At the sound of the neighing of his chargers, the whole land trembled,—Yea they came in and did sat up The land and the fulness thereof, The city, and them who were dwelling therein.
For behold me! sending among you serpents—vipers which there is no charming,—And they shall fatally bite you declareth Yahweh.
When I would have cheered myself against sorrow, Against me, mine own heart sickened:—
Lo! the voice of the cry for help of the daughter of my people from a land far away, Is, Yahweh, not in Zion? Is, her King, not within her? Why, have they provoked me with their carved images, with their foreign vanities?
The harvest is passed, The fruit-gathering, is ended; And we are not saved!
For the grievous injury of the daughter of my people, I am grievously injured,—I am enshrouded in gloom, Horror, hath seized me:—
Balsam, is there none, in Gilead? Is there no physician, there? Why hath not appeared the healing of the daughter of my people?