I am the True Vine, and My Father is the Vinedresser.
Every branch in Me not bearing fruit, He takes it away; and each one bearing fruit, He prunes, so that it may bear more fruit.
You are already pruned because of the Word which I have spoken to you.
Remain in Me, and I in you. As the branch is not able to bear fruit of itself, unless it remain in the vine, so neither can you unless you remain in Me.
I am the Vine; you are the branches. He that remains in Me, and I in him, this one bears much fruit. For apart from Me you are not able to do anything.
Unless one remains in Me, he is cast out as the branch and is dried up; and they gather and throw them into a fire, and they are burned.
If you remain in Me, and My words remain in you, whatever you desire you will ask, and it shall happen to you.
In this My Father is glorified, that you should bear much fruit; and you will be My disciples.
As the Father loved Me, I also loved you; continue in My love.
If you keep My commandments you will continue in My love, as I have kept My Father's commandments and continue in His love.
I have spoken these things to you that My joy may abide in you, and your joy may be full.
This is My commandment, that you love one another as I loved you.
Greater love than this has no one, that anyone should lay down his soul for his friends.
You are My friends if you do whatever I command you.
I no longer call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his lord does. But I called you friends, because all things which I heard from My Father I made known to you.
You have not chosen Me, but I chose you out and planted you, that you should go and should bear fruit, and your fruit remain, that whatever you should ask the Father in My name, He may give you.
These things I command you, that you love one another.
If the world hates you, you know that it has hated Me before it has hated you.
If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, for this reason the world hates you.
Remember the Word which I said to you, A slave is not greater than his lord. If they persecuted Me, they also will persecute you. If they kept My Word, they also will keep yours.
But all these things they will do to you on account of My name, because they do not know the One who sent Me.
If I had not come and had not spoken to them, they had no sin. But now they do not have excuse as to their sin.
The one hating Me also hates My Father.
If I did not do the works among them which no other did, they had no sin. But now they both have seen and also have hated Me and My Father.
But that may be fulfilled the Word that has been written in their Law, "They hated Me without a cause." Psa. 69:4
And when the Comforter comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, that One will witness concerning Me.
And you also witness, because from the beginning you are with Me.