So as, my brothers, ones loved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord, beloved ones.
I entreat Euodias, and I entreat Syntyche, to mind the same thing in the Lord.
And I also ask you, true yoke-fellow, help those who struggled along with me and with Clement in the gospel, and the rest, fellow-workers with me, whose names are in the Scroll of Life.
Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say, Rejoice!
Let your reasonableness be known to all men. The Lord is near.
Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and by petition with thanksgivings, let your requests be made known to God;
and the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will keep your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
For the rest, brothers, whatever is true, whatever honorable, whatever is right, whatever pure, whatever lovely, whatever of good report, if of any virtue, and if of any praise, think on these things.
And what things you learned and received and heard and saw in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last you revived your thinking of me (although you indeed did think, but lacked opportunity).
Not that I speak as to need, for I have learned to be content in whatever state I am.
But I know to be humbled, and I know to abound; in everything, and in all things, I am taught both to be filled and to hunger, both to abound, and to lack.
I can do all things through Christ, the One giving me power.
Yet you did well in sharing my troubles.
And you know, too, Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I went out from Macedonia, not one church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, except you only.
Because truly in Thessalonica you sent to my need, both once and twice.
Not that I seek a gift, but I seek the fruit multiplying to your account.
But I have all things and more than enough; I have been filled, receiving from Epaphroditus the things from you , an odor of sweet smell, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God.
And my God will fill your every need according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Now may glory be to our God and Father forever and ever. Amen.
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers with me greet you.
All the saints greet you, most of all those of Caesar's house.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. Amen.