Hear my prayer, O LORD! And let my cry come unto thee!
Hide not thy face from me in the day of my trouble; Incline thine ear to me when I call! Answer me speedily!
For my life is consumed like smoke, And my bones burn like a brand.
My heart is smitten and withered like grass; Yea, I forget to eat my bread.
By reason of my sighing, my bones cleave to my skin;
I am like the pelican of the wilderness; I am like an owl amid ruins.
I am sleepless; I am like a solitary bird upon the house-top.
All the day long my enemies reproach me; They who rage against me curse by me.
For I eat ashes like bread, And mingle my drink with tears.
On account of thine indignation and thy wrath; For thou hast lifted me up and cast me down!
My life is like a declining shadow, And I wither like grass.
But thou, O LORD! endurest for ever, And thy name from generation to generation!
Thou wilt arise and have pity upon Zion, For the time to favor her, yea, the set time, is come.
For thy servants take pleasure in her stones; Yea, they have a regard for her dust.
Then shall the nations fear the name of Jehovah, And all the kings of the earth thy glory.
For Jehovah will build up Zion; He will appear in his glory.
He will regard the prayer of the destitute, And not despise their supplication.
This shall be written for the generation to come, That the people to be born may praise Jehovah.
For he looketh down from his holy height, From heaven doth he cast his eye upon the earth,
To listen to the sighs of the prisoner. To release those that are doomed to death;
That they may declare the name of Jehovah in Zion, And his praise in Jerusalem,
When the nations are assembled together, And the kingdoms to serve Jehovah.
He hath weakened my strength on the way, He hath shortened my days.
I say, O my God! take me not away in the midst of my days! Thy years endure through all generations.
Of old hast thou laid the foundations of the earth, And the heavens are the work of thy hands;
They shall perish, but thou shalt endure; Yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; As a vesture shalt thou change them, And they shall be changed;
But thou art the same, And thy years have no end.
The children of thy servants shall dwell securely, And their posterity shall be established before thee.