And the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together to Him, having come from Jerusalem.
And when they saw some of His disciples eating loaves with unclean hands, that is with unwashed hands, they found fault.
For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they immerse their hands with the fist, holding the tradition of the elders.
And coming from the market, they do not eat without immersing, and there are many other things which they have received to hold, the dippings of cups and pots, and of copper vessels, and of tables.
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked Him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat loaves with unwashed hands?
But He answered and said to them, Well has Isaiah prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, "This people honors Me with their lips, but their heart is far from Me.
However, they worship Me in vain, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men."
For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the dippings of pots and cups. And many other such things you do.
And He said to them, Do you do well to set aside the commandment of God, so that you may keep your own tradition?
For Moses said, "Honor your father and your mother." And, "Whoever curses father or mother, let him die the death."
But you say, If a man shall say to his father or mother, Corban! (that is, A gift to God, whatever you may profit by me)
and you no longer allow him to do anything toward his father or mother,
making the word of God of no effect through your tradition which you have delivered. And you do many such things.
And calling near all the crowd, He said to them, Listen to Me, every one of you, and understand.
There is nothing from outside a man which entering into him can defile him. But the things which come out of him, those are the ones that defile the man.
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when He had entered into the house away from the crowd, His disciples asked Him concerning the parable.
And He said to them, Are you also without understanding? Do you not perceive that whatever enters into the man from outside cannot defile him,
because it does not enter into his heart, but into the belly, and goes out into the waste-bowl, purifying all food?
And He said, That which comes out of the man is what defiles the man.
For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,
thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness:
All these evil things pass out from inside and defile the man.
And He arose from there and went into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And He entered into a house and desired no one to know it. But He could not be hidden.
For a woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of Him and came and fell at His feet.
The woman was a Greek, a Syro-phoenician by race. And she begged Him that He would cast the demon out of her daughter.
But Jesus said to her, Let the children first be filled. For it is not right to take the children's loaves and to throw it to the dogs.
And she answered and said to Him, Yes, Lord, yet the dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs.
And He said to her, For this saying go, the demon has gone out of your daughter.
And when she had come to her house, she found the demon had gone out, and her daughter lay on the couch.
And again, departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, He came to the Sea of Galilee, in the midst of the borders of the Decapolis.
And they brought a deaf one to Him, hardly speaking. And they begged Him to put His hand on him.
And He took him aside from the crowd and put His fingers into his ears. And He spat and touched his tongue.
And looking up to Heaven, He sighed and said to him, Ephphatha! (that is, Be opened!)
And instantly his ears were opened and the bond of his tongue was loosened, and he spoke plainly.
And He commanded them, that they should tell no one. But the more He commanded them, so much the more they proclaimed it.
And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. He makes both the deaf to hear and the dumb to speak.