And it came to pass, that he went, on the sabbath-day, into the house of one of the chief men of the Pharisees, to eat bread; and they watched him.
And behold, there was a man before him, who had the dropsy.
And Jesus answered and spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying: Is it lawful to cure on the sabbath-day?
But they were silent. And he took him, and healed him, and let him go.
And he answered and said to them: Which of you, if his son or his ox should fall into a pit, would not immediately pull him out on the sabbath-day?
And they were not able to give him an answer to these things.
And he spoke a parable to those who had been invited, when he observed how they were choosing the first places at table; and he said to them:
When you are invited by any one to a wedding, do not recline in the first place, lest a more honorable man than you may have been invited by him;
and he that invited you and him, come and say to you, Give place to this man; and then you shall begin with shame to take the last place.
But when you are invited, go and recline in the last place, that when he that invited you shall come, he may say to you, Friend, go up higher. Then you shall have honor in the presence of those who recline with you.
For every one that exalts himself shall be humbled; and he that humbles himself shall be exalted.
Then he said also to him that had invited him: When you make a dinner or a supper, call not your friends, nor your brothers, nor your relatives, nor your rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return, and a recompense be made you.
But when you make a feast, invite the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind;
and you shall be blessed; for they have no power to repay you; but you shall be repaid at the resurrection of the just.
And a certain one of those who reclined at table with him, after hearing these things, said to him: Blessed is he who shall cat bread in the kingdom of God.
And he said to him: A certain man made a great supper, and invited many.
And he sent his servant at the hour of supper, to say to those who had been invited, Come, for all things are now ready.
And they all, with one consent, began to make excuse. The first said to him, I have bought a farm, and I must go and see it; I pray you, have me excused.
And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to try them; I pray you, have me excused.
And another said, I have married a wife, and, for this reason, I can not come.
And that servant came and told his lord these things.   Then the master of the house was angry, and said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor and the maimed, the lame and the blind.
And the servant said, Lord, it is done as you commanded, and yet there is room.
And the lord said to his servant, Go out into the roads, and among the hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be full.
For I say to you, that not one of those men who have been invited, shall taste of my supper.
And many multitudes were journeying with him; and he turned and said to them:
If any one comes to me, and hates not his father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, and his own life also, he can not be my disciple.
And whoever does not bear his cross, and come after me, can not be my disciple.
For which of you, intending to build a tower, does not first sit down, and count the cost, whether he has the means to finish it?
Lest, when he has laid the foundation, and is not able to finish, all that see it begin to deride him,
saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.
Or, what king, going to make war against another king, does not first sit down, and deliberate whether he is able, with ten thousand, to meet him that is coming; against him with twenty thousand?
And if not, while he is yet at a distance, he sends an embassy, and asks for conditions of peace.
So, then, whoever of you does not forsake all that he has, can not be my disciple.
Salt is good; but if the salt become tasteless, by what means shall it become salt again?
It is fit neither for earth, nor for manure; but they cast it out. He that has ears to hear, let him hear.