Now a certain man in Caesarea, named Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian band,
a devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, giving much alms to the people, and praying to God always,
saw in a vision plainly, about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God coming in to him, and saying to him, Cornelius!
And he, looking steadily at him, and becoming affrighted, said, What is it, Lord? And he said to him, Thy prayers and thine alms have come up for a memorial before God.
And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, who is surnamed Peter;
he lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the seaside.
And when the angel that spoke to him had departed, he called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of those who waited on him,
and having told them every thing sent them to Joppa.
On the morrow, as they were on their journey, and were drawing near the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray, about the sixth hour.
And he became very hungry and wished to eat; but while they were making ready, a trance came upon him,
and he beheld heaven opened, and a sort of vessel descending, as it were a large sheet having cords at the four corners, and let down upon the earth;
wherein were all the four-footed beasts and creeping things of the earth, and birds of the air.
And there came a voice to him, Arise, Peter; slay, and eat.
But Peter said, Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten anything common and unclean.
And a voice came to him again, the second time, That which God hath cleansed, call not thou common.
This was done three times; and the vessel was immediately taken up into heaven.
Now, while Peter was doubting within himself what the vision which he had seen meant, lo! the men who were sent from Cornelius had made inquiry for Simon’s house, and stood before the gate;
and they called, and asked whether Simon, surnamed Peter, lodged there.
And while Peter was meditating on the vision, the Spirit said to him, Behold, men are seeking thee;
but arise, and go down, and go with them, without scruple; for I have sent them.
And Peter went down to the men and said, Behold, I am he whom ye are seeking; for what cause have ye come?
And they said, Cornelius a centurion, a righteous man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the nation of the Jews, was warned from God by a holy angel to send for thee to his house, and to hear words from thee.
Then he called them in, and lodged them. And on the morrow he arose and went forth with them, and certain of the brethren from Joppa accompanied him.
And the morrow after, he came into Caesarea. And Cornelius was expecting them, and had called together his kinsmen and near friends.
And as Peter came in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and did him reverence.
But Peter raised him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man.
And while talking with him, he went in, and found many who had come together.
And he said to them, Ye know that it is an unlawful thing for a Jew to keep company with one of another nation, or to come near him; but God showed me that I should not call any man common or unclean.
Wherefore I came without objection, when sent for. I ask therefore, for what reason did ye send for me?
And Cornelius said, Four days ago, I was fasting till this hour; and at the ninth hour was praying in my house; and lo! a man stood before me in bright clothing,
and said, Cornelius, thy prayer hath been heard, and thine alms have been remembered before God.
Send therefore to Joppa, and call for Simon, who is surnamed Peter; he lodgeth in the house of Simon a tanner, by the sea-side; and he, when he cometh, will speak to thee.
I therefore sent to thee immediately; and thou hast done well in coming here. Now therefore we are all present before God, to hear all things that have been commanded thee from the Lord.
And Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is not a respecter of persons,
but in every nation he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is acceptable to him—
the word which he sent to the sons of Israel, publishing glad tidings of peace through Jesus Christ; he is Lord of all men.
Ye yourselves know what was spoken of through the whole of Judaea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John preached,
relating to Jesus of Nazareth, that God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power; who went about doing good, and healing all that were overpowered by the Devil; for God was with him.
And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem; whom they also slew by hanging him on a cross.
Him God raised up on the third day, and caused him to be manifested,
not to all the people, but to witnesses before appointed by God, to ourselves, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead;
and he commanded us to preach to the people, and to testify that it is he who hath been appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead.
To him all the prophets bear witness, that through his name every one that believeth in him shall receive forgiveness of sins.
While Peter was yet speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all that heard the word.
And those of the circumcision who believed, as many as came with Peter, were astonished that on the gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Spirit;
for they heard them speaking with tongues, and magnifying God. Then answered Peter,
Can any one forbid water, that these should not be baptized, who have received the Holy Spirit even as we have?
And he commanded that they should be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they entreated him to remain some days.