And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished giving commandments to his twelve disciples, he departed from there to teach and to preach in their cities.
Now when John had heard in the prison the works of the Christ, he sent two of his disciples,
and said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another?
Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and tell John those things which you hear and see:
The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk; the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear; the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them.
And blessed is he who is not offended in me.
And as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, those that wear soft [clothing] are in kings' houses.
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say unto you, and more than a prophet.
For this is [he] of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.
Verily I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there has not risen a greater than John the Baptist; notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he.
From the days of John the Baptist until now, life is given unto the kingdom of the heavens, and the valiant take hold of it.
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
And if ye will receive [it], this is that Elijah who was to come.
He that has ears to hear, let him hear.
But unto whom shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets and shouting unto their fellows
and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented.
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a devil.
The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a gluttonous man and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified by her children.
Then he began to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done because they repented not:
Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment than for you.
And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to Hades, for if the mighty works which have been done in thee had been done in those of Sodom, it would have remained until this day.
Therefore I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for thee.
At that time Jesus answered and said, I praise thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and understanding and hast revealed them unto children.
Even so, Father, for thus it was pleasing in thy sight.
All things are delivered unto me of my Father, and no one has known the Son but the Father, neither has anyone known the Father except the Son and [he] unto whom the Son will reveal [him].
Come unto me, all [ye] that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and humble of heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls.
For my yoke [is] easy, and my burden is light.: