A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scorner does not hear rebuke.
From the fruit of his mouth a man eats good, but the desire of the deceiver is violence.
He who guards his mouth keeps his life; he who opens his lips wide is ruined.
The sluggard's soul is craving, but is not getting , but the soul of the hard workers shall be made fat.
The righteous hates lying, but the wicked is odious and acts shamefully.
Righteousness keeps the upright one in the way, but wickedness subverts sin.
There are those who act rich, yet have nothing at all; and those who act poor, yet have great wealth.
The ransom of a man's life is his riches, but the poor man does not hear rebuke.
The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
Argument only comes by pride, but wisdom is with those who take advice.
Wealth from vanity shall be diminished, but he who gathers by labor shall increase.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
He who despises the word shall be destroyed, but he who fears the commandment shall be rewarded.
The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Good sense gives grace, but the way of traitors is ever flowing.
Every prudent one deals with knowledge, but a fool lays open his foolishness.
A wicked messenger falls into evil, but a faithful ambassador is healing.
Poverty and shame shall be to him who refuses instruction, but he who keeps to correction shall be honored.
The desire coming to pass is sweet to the soul, but to depart from evil is hateful to fools.
He who walks with the wise shall be wise, but one associating with fools shall be broken.
Evil pursues sinners, but the righteous shall be rewarded with good.
A good man leaves an inheritance to his son's sons, but the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.
The tilled ground of the poor yields much food, but without justice, it is swept away.
He who spares his rod hates his son, but he who loves him seeks him with correction.
The righteous eats to the satisfying of his appetite, but the belly of the wicked shall lack.