For ye yourselves know, brethren, that our coming among you hath not been in vain;
but after we had suffered before and had been shamefully treated, as ye know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict.
For our teaching is not from error, nor from impurity, nor in guile;
but as we have been regarded by God as worthy to be intrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God, who trieth our hearts.
For neither at any time did we use flattering words, as ye know, nor a cloak of covetousness, God is witness;
nor from men sought we glory, either from you, or from others; though we might have used authority as apostles of Christ.
But we were gentle in the midst of you, even as a nurse cherisheth her own children;
so having a strong affection for you, we were willing to impart to you, not only the gospel of God, but also our own souls, because ye became dear to us.
For ye remember, brethren, our labor and toil, how laboring night and day, that we might not be burdensome to any of you, we preached to you the gospel of God.
Ye are witnesses, and so is God, how holily, and righteously, and unblamably we conducted ourselves toward you that believe;
as ye know how we exhorted, and encouraged, and charged every one of you, as a father doth his children,
that ye should walk in a manner worthy of God, who is calling you to his own kingdom and glory.
And for this cause we also thank God without ceasing, that, when ye received the word of God which ye heard from us, ye received it not as the word of men, but, as it is in truth, the word of God, which also is powerfully working in you that believe.
For ye, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judaea in Christ Jesus; for ye also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, as they have from the Jews;
who both killed the Lord Jesus, and the prophets, and drove us out, and please not God, and set themselves against all men,
hindering us from speaking to the gentiles that they may be saved,—to fill up their sins always! But the wrath is come upon them to the end.
But we, brethren, having been bereaved of you for a short time, separated in body, not in heart, used the greater endeavors with much earnestness to see your face.
Wherefore we purposed to come to you, that is, I Paul, once and again; but Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of glorying? Is it not even ye, in the presence of our Lord Jesus at his coming?
For ye are our glory and joy.