After these things and this faithfulness, Sennacherib the king of Assyria came; yea, he came into Judah and camped against the cities of defense, and commanded to break them open to himself.
And Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come, and his face was set to battle against Jerusalem;
and he took counsel with his leaders and his mighty ones, to stop the waters of the fountains that were on the outside of the city; and they helped him.
And many people were gathered, and they stopped all the fountains, and the torrent that was rushing through the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water?
And he made himself strong and built all the wall that was broken, and raised on it the towers, and another at the outside of the wall, and strengthened Millo, the city of David, and made darts in abundance, and shields.
And he set captains of war over the people, and gathered them to him, to the street of the gate of the city, and spoke to their heart, saying,
Be strong and courageous; do not be afraid nor be cast down before the face of the king of Assyria, and before the face of all the multitude with him, for with us are more than with him.
With him is an arm of flesh, and with us is Jehovah our God to help us, and to fight our battles. And the people were supported by the words of Hezekiah the king of Judah.
After this Sennacherib the king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem, (and he was by Lachish, and all his power with him) against Hezekiah the king of Judah, and against all Judah in Jerusalem, saying,
So says Sennacherib the king of Assyria, On what are you trusting that you sit under siege in Jerusalem?
Is not Hezekiah misleading you to give you up to die by famine, and by thirst, saying, Jehovah our God will deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria?
Has not Hezekiah himself removed His high places, and His altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, Before one altar you shall worship, and on it you shall burn incense.
Do you not know what I have done, my fathers and I, to all the people of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands at all able to deliver their land out of my hand?
Who among all the gods of these nations whom my fathers have devoted to destruction is he who has been able to deliver his people out of my hand, that your god may be able to deliver you out of my hand?
And now, do not let Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you in this way, nor believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom has been able to deliver his people from my hand, from the hand of my fathers; also, surely your god shall not deliver you from my hand.
And again his servants spoke against Jehovah God, and against His servant Hezekiah.
And he had written letters to blaspheme Jehovah, the God of Israel, and to speak against Him, saying, As the gods of the nations of the lands have not delivered their people from my hand, so the God of Hezekiah shall not deliver His people from my hand.
And they called with a great voice in Jewish, against the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, to frighten them and to terrify them, that they might capture the city.
And they spoke against the God of Jerusalem as against the gods of the peoples of the land, the work of the hands of man.
And Hezekiah the king and Isaiah the son of Amoz, the prophet, prayed about this, and they cried to Heaven.
And Jehovah sent an angel, and cut off every mighty one of valor, both the leader and the ruler, in the camp of the king of Assyria; and he returned with shame of face to his land. And he entered the house of his god, and those from his bowels caused him to fall there by the sword.
And Jehovah saved Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria, and from the hand of all; and He guided them on every side.
And many brought an offering to Jehovah, to Jerusalem, and precious things to Hezekiah the king of Judah; and he was lifted up before the eyes of all the nations after this.
In those days Hezekiah was sick even to death, and he prayed to Jehovah, and He spoke to him, and gave a sign for him.
And Hezekiah did not return according to the benefit done to him, for his heart had been lifted up, and there was wrath on him and on Judah and Jerusalem.
And Hezekiah was humbled for the pride of his heart, he and the people of Jerusalem, and the wrath of Jehovah did not come on them in the days of Hezekiah.
And Hezekiah had great riches and honor, and he had very many treasures of silver for himself, and of gold, and of precious stones, and of spices, and of shields, and of all desirable vessels,
and storehouses for the increase of grain, and new wine, and oil, and stalls for all kinds of animals, and flocks for the stalls;
and he made cities for himself, and had stocks of flocks and very many herds, for God had given him very much property.
And Hezekiah himself had stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon, and had directed them beneath the west of the city of David; and Hezekiah prospered in all his work.
Even so with the envoys of the rulers of Babylon, those sent to him to inquire of the wonder that had been in the land, God left him to test him, to know all his heart.
And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and his godly deeds, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, the prophet, and in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
And Hezekiah lay with his fathers, and they buried him in the uppermost of the graves of the sons of David; and all Judah and the people of Jerusalem honored him at his death. And his son Manasseh reigned in his place.