And the Pharisees and Sadducees who came, testing, demanded him to exhibit to them a sign from the sky.
But having answered, he said to them, When it becomes evening, ye say, Fair weather, for the sky is red.
And at morning, Bad weather today, for the sky is red, being gloomy. Hypocrites! Ye indeed know how to discern the face of the sky, but the signs of the times ye are not able.
An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign will be given to it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet. And having left them behind, he departed.
And his disciples having come to the other side, they forgot to take loaves.
And Jesus said to them, Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And they deliberated among themselves, saying, We took no loaves.
And having known it, Jesus said to them, O ye of little faith, why do ye deliberate among yourselves because ye brought no loaves?
Do ye not yet understand, nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets ye took up,
nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many hampers ye took up?
How do ye not understand that I spoke to you not about bread, to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees?
Then they understood that he said not to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Now when Jesus came into the regions of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Who do men say I, the Son of man, am?
And they said, Some, John the immerser, others, Elijah, but others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
He says to them, But who say ye, I am?
And Simon Peter having answered, said, Thou are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And having answered, Jesus said to him, Blessed are thou, Simon Bar-jonah, because flesh and blood has not revealed it to thee, but my Father in the heavens.
And I also say to thee, that thou are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it.
And I will give to thee the keys of the kingdom of the heavens, and whatever thou may bind on earth will be what is bound in the heavens, and whatever thou may loose on the earth will be what is loosed in the heavens.
Then he commanded his disciples that they should tell no man that he is Jesus, the Christ.
From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things from the elders, and chief priests, and scholars, and be killed, and the third day be raised up.
And having taken him aside, Peter began to rebuke him, saying, Be merciful to thee, Lord. This will, no, not be to thee.
But having turned around, he said to Peter, Go thee behind me, Satan. Thou are my stumbling-block, because thou regard not the things of God, but the things of men.
Then Jesus said to his disciples, If any man wants to come behind me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
For whoever wants save his life will lose it, and whoever will lose his life for my sake will find it.
For what does it profit a man, if he should gain the whole world, and lose his soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the Son of man is going to come in the glory of his Father with his agents, and then he will reward each man according to his actions.
Truly I say to you, there are some of those who stand here, who will, no, not taste of death, until they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.