And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the ground, and daughters were born to them,
that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair. And they took to them wives of all that they chose.
And Jehovah said, My Spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he also is flesh. Yet shall his days be a hundred and twenty years.
The giants were on the earth in those days. And also after that, when the sons of God came to the daughters of men, and they bore sons to them, the same were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown.
And Jehovah saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
And Jehovah regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him in his heart.
And Jehovah said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the ground, from man, to beast, to creeping things, and birds of the heavens, for I regret that I have made them.
But Noah found favor in the eyes of Jehovah.
These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, perfect in his generations. Noah walked with God.
And Noah begot three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
And the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
And God saw the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth.
And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
Make thee an ark of gopher wood. Thou shall make rooms in the ark, and shall pitch it inside and outside with pitch.
And this is how thou shall make it: The length of the ark three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.
Thou shall make a light for the ark, and thou shall finish it to a cubit upward. And thou shall set the door of the ark in the side of it, with lower, second, and third stories thou shall make it.
And I, behold, I bring the flood of waters upon this earth, to destroy all flesh, in which is the breath of life, from under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall die.
But I will establish my covenant with thee. And thou shall come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee.
And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort thou shall bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee. They shall be male and female.
Of the birds according to their kind, and of the cattle according to their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind. Two of every sort shall come to thee, to keep them alive.
And take thou to thee of all food that is eaten, and gather it to thee, and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.
Thus Noah did; according to all that God commanded him, so he did.