And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, I am the LORD your God.
You shall not do like the doings of the land of Egypt in which you lived. And you shall not do like the doings of the land of Canaan, where I bring you. Neither shall you walk in their ordinances.
You shall do My judgments and keep My ordinances, to walk in them. I am the LORD your God.
And you shall keep My statutes and My judgments, which if a man does, he shall live in them. I am the LORD.
None of you shall approach to any who are near of kin to him, to uncover their nakedness. I am the LORD.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father or the nakedness of your mother. She is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife. It is your father's nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father or the daughter of your mother, born at home or born away. Their nakedness you shall not uncover.
The nakedness of your son's daughter, or of your daughter's daughter, you shall not uncover their nakedness. For theirs is your own nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of the daughter of your father's wife, begotten of your father. She is your sister.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister. She is your father's near kinswoman.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister. For she is your mother's near kinswoman.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother. You shall not approach his wife. She is your aunt.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law. She is your son's wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife. It is your brother's nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter, neither shall you undertake to uncover her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter. They are her near kinswomen; it is wickedness.
And you shall not take a wife to her sister, to vex her, to uncover her nakedness, beside the other in her life.
Also you shall not approach to a woman to uncover her nakedness in the impurity of her uncleanness.
And you shall not lie carnally with your neighbor's wife, to defile yourself with her.
And you shall not let any of your seed pass through the fire to Molech, neither shall you profane the name of your God. I am the LORD.
You shall not lie with mankind as with womankind. It is abomination to God.
And you shall not lie with any animal to defile yourself with it. And a woman shall not stand before an animal to lie down to it. It is a shameful mixing.
Do not defile yourselves in any of these things. For in all these the nations are defiled, which I cast out before you.
And the land is defiled. Therefore I visit its wickedness on it, and the land itself vomits out those who live in it.
You shall therefore keep My statutes and My judgments, and shall not commit any of these abominations, neither the native, nor any stranger that lives among you.
For the men of the land who were before you have done all these abominations, and the land is defiled.
You shall not do these so that the land may not spew you out also when you defile it, as it spewed out the nations that were before you.
For whoever shall commit any of these abominations, even the souls who commit them shall be cut off from among their people.
And you shall keep My ordinance, so as not to do any of these abominable customs which were committed before you, and that you do not defile yourselves in them. I am the LORD your God.