Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.
But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.
For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm.
They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men.
Therefore pride compasses them about as a chain; violence covers them as a garment.
Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.
They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily.
They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walks through the earth.
Therefore his people return here: and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.
And they say, How does God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?
Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase in riches.
Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocence.
For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.
If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of your children.
When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;
Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end.
Surely you did set them in slippery places: you casted them down into destruction.
How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.
As a dream when one awakes; so, O Lord, when you awake, you shall despise their image.
Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.
So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before you.
Nevertheless I am continually with you: you have held me by my right hand.
You shall guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
Whom have I in heaven but you? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside you.
My flesh and my heart fails: but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.
For, lo, they that are far from you shall perish: you have destroyed all them that go a whoring from you.
But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all your works.