And it came to passe when Iesus had fynisshed those sayinges he gat him from Galile and came into the coostes of Iewry beyonde Iordan
and moche people folowed him and he healed them theare.
Then came vnto him the pharises temtinge him and sayinge to him: Ys it lawfull for a man to put awaye his wyfe for all maner of causes?
He answered and sayd vnto them: Have ye not redde how that he which made man at the beginninge made them man and woman
and sayde: for this thinge shall a ma leve father and mother and cleve vnto his wyfe and they twayne shalbe one flesshe.
Wherfore now are they not twayne but one flesshe. Let not man therfore put a sunder that which God hath cuppled to gedder.
The sayde they to him: why did Moses comaunde to geve a testimoniall of divorsemet and to put hyr awaye?
He sayde vnto them: Moses because of the hardnes of youre hertes suffred you to put awaye youre wyfes: But from ye beginnynge it was not so.
I saye therfore vnto you whosoever putteth awaye his wyfe (except it be for fornicacion) and maryeth another breaketh wedlocke. And whosoever maryeth her which is divorsed doeth commyt advoutry.
Then sayde his disciples to him: yf the mater be so betwene man and wyfe then is it not good to mary.
He sayde vnto them: all me can not awaye with that sayinge save they to whom it is geve.
Ther are chaste which were so borne out of their mothers belly. And ther are chaste which be made of men. And ther be chaste which have made them selves chaste for the kyngdome of heves sake. He that can take it let him take it.
Then were brought to him yonge chyldre that he shuld put his hondes on them and praye And the disciples rebuked them.
But Iesus sayde: suffre the chyldren and forbid them not to come to me: for of suche is the kyngdome of heven.
And when he had put his hondes on them he departed thence.
And beholde one came and sayde vnto him: good master what good thinge shall I do that I maye have eternall lyfe?
He sayde vnto him: why callest thou me good? there is none good but one and that is God. But yf thou wylt entre in to lyfe kepe the commaundementes.
The other sayde to him Which? And Iesus sayde: breake no wedloke kill not steale not: beare not falce witnes:
honoure father and mother: and love thyne neighbour as thy sylfe.
And the younge man sayde vnto him: I have observed all these thingis from my youth what lacke I yet?
And Iesus sayde vnto him yf thou wylt be perfecte goo and sell that thou hast and geve it to the povre and thou shalt have treasure in heven and come and folowe me.
When ye younge ma hearde yt sayinge he wet awaye mourninge. For he had greate possessions.
Then Iesus sayde vnto his disciples: Verely I saye vnto you: yt is harde for a ryche ma to enter into ye kyngdome of heaven.
And moreover I saye vnto you: it is easier for a camell to go through the eye of a nedle then for a ryche man to enter into the kyngdome of God.
When his disciples hearde that they were excedingly amased sayinge: who then can be saved?
Iesus behelde the and sayde vnto them: with men this is vnpossible but with God all thinges are possible.
Then answered Peter and sayde to him: Beholde we have forsaken all and folowed the what shall we have?
Iesus sayde vnto them: verely I saye to you: when the sonne of man shall syt in ye seate of his maieste ye which folowe me in ye seconde generacion shall syt also vpon .xii. seates and iudge ye .xii. tribes of Israel.
And whosoever forsaketh housses or brethren or systers other father or mother or wyfe or chyldren or landes for my names sake ye same shall receave an hundred folde and shall inheret everlastynge lyfe.
Many that are fyrste shalbe laste and the laste shalbe fyrste.