And concerning the collection for the saints, as I charged the churches of Galatia, so also you do.
On the first day of the week let each of you put by himself, storing up what ever he is prospered, so that there may be no collections when I come.
And when I come, whomever you shall approve by your letters, I will send them to bring your gift to Jerusalem.
And if it is suitable for me to go also, they shall go with me.
But I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia; for I am going through Macedonia.
And it may be that I will stay with you, and even spend the winter with you, so that you may set me forward wherever I go.
For I do not desire to see you now in passage, but I am hoping to stay some time with you, if the Lord permits.
But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost.
For a great and effective door opened to me, and many are opposing.
But if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he works the work of the Lord, even as I do.
Therefore let not any despise him, but set him forward in peace, so that he may come to me; for I am waiting for him with the brothers.
As regards our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come to you with the brothers, but it was not altogether his will that he come now. But he will come when he has opportunity.
Watch! Stand fast in the faith! Be men! Be strong!
Let all your things be done in charity.
But I exhort you, brothers. You know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruit of Achaia, and they appointed themselves to ministry to the saints.
See that you also submit to such ones, and to everyone working and laboring with me.
I am glad at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus; for these supplied your lack.
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours; then acknowledge such ones.
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
The salutation of Paul with my own hand.
If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. The Lord comes!
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Let my love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.