And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, The set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my set feasts.
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. Ye shall do no manner of work. It is a sabbath to Jehovah in all your dwellings.
These are the set feasts of Jehovah, even holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim in their appointed season:
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, is Jehovah's Passover.
And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to Jehovah. Ye shall eat unleavened bread seven days.
In the first day ye shall have a holy convocation. Ye shall do no job work.
But ye shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah seven days. In the seventh day is a holy convocation, ye shall do no job work.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When ye have come into the land which I give to you, and shall reap the harvest of it, then ye shall bring the sheaf of the first-fruits of your harvest to the priest.
And he shall wave the sheaf before Jehovah, to be accepted for you. On the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave it.
And in the day when ye wave the sheaf, ye shall offer a he-lamb without blemish a year old for a burnt offering to Jehovah.
And the meal offering of it shall be two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to Jehovah for a sweet savor. And the drink offering of it shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin.
And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched grain, nor fresh ears, until this selfsame day, until ye have brought the oblation of your God. It is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
And ye shall count to you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave offering, there shall be complete seven sabbaths.
Ye shall number fifty days, even to the morrow after the seventh sabbath, and ye shall offer a new meal offering to Jehovah.
Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave-loaves of two tenth parts of an ephah. They shall be of fine flour. They shall be baked with leaven, for first-fruits to Jehovah.
And ye shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a year old, and one young bullock, and two rams. They shall be a burnt offering to Jehovah, with their meal offering, and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And ye shall offer one he-goat for a sin offering, and two he-lambs a year old for a sacrifice of peace offerings.
And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first-fruits for a wave offering before Jehovah, with the two lambs. They shall be holy to Jehovah for the priest.
And ye shall make proclamation on the selfsame day, there shall be a holy convocation to you. Ye shall do no job work. It is a statute forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shall not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shall thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest. Thou shall leave them for the poor man, and for the sojourner. I am Jehovah your God.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest to you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation.
Ye shall do no job work, and ye shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
However on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement. It shall be a holy convocation to you, and ye shall afflict your souls, and ye shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
And ye shall do no manner of work in that same day, for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement for you before Jehovah your God.
For whatever soul it be who shall not be afflicted in that same day, he shall be cut off from his people.
And whatever soul it be who does any manner of work in that same day, that soul I will destroy from among his people.
Ye shall do no manner of work. It is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
It shall be to you a sabbath of solemn rest, and ye shall afflict your souls. In the ninth day of the month at evening, from evening to evening, ye shall keep your sabbath.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tabernacles for seven days to Jehovah.
On the first day shall be a holy convocation. Ye shall do no job work.
Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah. On the eighth day shall be a holy convocation to you, and ye shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah. It is a solemn assembly; ye shall do no job work.
These are the set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah, a burnt offering, and a meal offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings, each on its own day.
Besides the sabbaths of Jehovah, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill offerings, which ye give to Jehovah.
However on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruits of the land, ye shall keep the feast of Jehovah seven days. On the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest.
And ye shall take to you on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook, and ye shall rejoice before Jehovah your God seven days.
And ye shall keep it a feast to Jehovah seven days in the year. It is a statute forever throughout your generations. Ye shall keep it in the seventh month.
Ye shall dwell in booths seven days. All who are home-born in Israel shall dwell in booths,
that your generations may know that I made the sons of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am Jehovah your God.
And Moses declared to the sons of Israel the set feasts of Jehovah.