And it happened that a day came when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD. And Satan also came among them to present himself before the LORD.
And the LORD said to Satan, From where do you come? And Satan answered the LORD and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.
And the LORD said unto Satan, Have you set your heart on My servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one who fears God and turns away from evil? And still he is keeping hold of his integrity, although you moved Me against him to destroy him without cause.
And Satan answered the LORD and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man has he will give for his life.
But indeed put forth Your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse You to Your face.
And the LORD said to Satan, Behold, he is in your hand, but save his life.
And Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD and struck Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot to the top of his head.
And he took a broken piece of pottery to scrape himself with. And he sat down among the ashes.
And his wife said to him, Do you still hold to your integrity? Curse God and die!
But he said to her, You speak as one of the foolish ones speak. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this Job did not sin with his lips.
And Job's three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, and they each one came from his own place: Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite. For they had met together to come to mourn with him and to comfort him.
And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and did not know him, they lifted up their voice and wept. And each one tore his robe, and they sprinkled dust upon their heads toward Heaven.
And they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights. And no one spoke a word to him, for they saw that his grief was very great.