And the LORD visited Sarah as He had said. And the LORD did to Sarah as He had spoken.
For Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.
And Abraham called the name of his son that was born to him (whom Sarah bore to him) Isaac.
And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
And Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him.
And Sarah said, God has made me laugh, so that all who hear will laugh with me.
And she said, Who could have said to Abraham, will Sarah suckle children? For I have borne a son to him in his old age.
And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast the day that Isaac was weaned.
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian (whom she had borne to Abraham) mocking.
And she said to Abraham, Cast out this slave woman and her son. For the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son, with Isaac.
And the thing was very evil in Abraham's sight, because of his son.
And God said to Abraham, Let it not be grievous in your sight because of the boy and because of your slave woman. In all that Sarah has said to you, listen to her voice. For in Isaac your Seed shall be called.
And also, I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman, because he is your seed.
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder. And he gave her the boy, and sent her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba.
And the water was gone in the bottle, and she cast the boy under one of the shrubs.
And she went and sat down across from him, a good way off, about a bowshot. For she said, Let me not see the death of the boy. And she sat across from him, and lifted up her voice, and cried.
And God heard the voice of the boy, and the angel of God called to Hagar out of the heavens, and said to her, What ails you, Hagar? Do not fear, for God has heard the voice of the boy where he is.
Rise up, lift up the boy and hold him up with your hand, for I will make him a great nation.
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went and filled the bottle with water, and gave drink to the boy.
And God was with the boy, and he grew, and lived in the wilderness, and became an archer.
And he lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him out of the land of Egypt.
And it happened at that time, Abimelech and Phicol, the commander of his army, spoke to Abraham, saying, God is with you in all that you do.
Now therefore swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son. Do to me according to the kindness that I have sworn to you, and to the land in which you have lived.
And Abraham said, I will swear.
And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.
And Abimelech said, I do not know who has done this thing, neither did you tell me, neither have I even heard of it, except today.
And Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and both of them made a covenant.
And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
And Abimelech said to Abraham, What are these seven ewe lambs which you have set by themselves?
And he said, For you shall take these seven ewe lambs from my hand, so that they may be a witness to me that I have dug this well.
This is why he called that place Beer-sheba, because they swore, both of them, there.
So they made a covenant at Beer-sheba. Then Abimelech and Phicol, the commander of his army, rose up. And they returned to the land of the Philistines.
And Abraham planted a tree in Beer-sheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.
And Abraham lived in the Philistines' land many days.