Judge not, that ye be not judged;—
For, with what judgment ye judge, shall ye be judged,—and, with what measure ye mete, shall it be measured unto you.
Why, moreover, beholdest thou the mote, in the eye of thy brother,—while, the beam in thine own eye, thou dost not consider?
Or how wilt thou say unto thy brother, Let me cast the mote out of thine eye,—when lo! a beam, is in thine own eye?
Hypocrite! cast first, out of thine own eye, the beam,—and, then, shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote, out of the eye of thy brother.
Do not give what is holy unto dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine,—lest once they trample, them, down with their feet, and, turning, tear, you.
Be asking, and it shall be given you, Be seeking, and ye shall find,—Be knocking, and it shall be opened unto you.
For, whosoever asketh, receiveth, and, he that seeketh, findeth,—and, to him that knocketh, shall it be opened.
Or what man, from among yourselves, whom his son shall ask for a loaf,—a stone, will give him?
Or, a fish also, shall ask,—a serpent, will give him?
If then, ye, being, evil, know how, good gifts, to be giving unto your children, how much more, will, your Father who is in the heavens, give good things to them that ask, him?
Whatsoever things, therefore, ye would, that men be doing unto you, so, be, ye also, doing, unto them,—for, this, is the law and the prophets.
Enter ye in at, the narrow gate; because broad and roomy is the way that leadeth unto destruction,—and, many, are they who enter thereby:
Because, narrow, is the gate, and, confined, the way, that leadeth unto life,—and, few, are they who find, it.
Beware of false prophets, who come unto you in clothing of sheep,—while, within, they are ravening wolves.
By their fruits, shall ye find, them, out,—unless perhaps men gather—from thorns, grapes! or, from thistles, figs!
So, every good tree, fine fruit, produceth,—whereas, the worthless tree, evil fruit, produceth:
It is, impossible, for a, good tree, to be bearing, evil fruit, neither doth, a worthless tree, produce, fine fruit.
Every tree that beareth not fine fruit, is hewn down, and, into fire, is cast.
After all then, by their fruits, shall ye find, them, out.
Not every one that saith unto me, Lord! Lord! shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens,—but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in the heavens.
Many, will say unto me, in, that, day, Lord! Lord! did we not, in thy name, prophesy, and, in thy name, cast, demons, out,—and, in thy name, many works of power, perform?
And, then, will I confess unto them, Never, have I acknowledged you,—Depart from me, ye workers of lawlessness!
Every one, therefore, who heareth [these] my words, and doeth them, shall be likened to a prudent man, who built his house upon the rock;
And the rain descended, and the streams came, and the winds blew, and rushed against that house, and it fell not; for it had been founded upon the rock.
And every one who heareth these my words, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand;
And the rain descended, and the streams came, and the winds blew, and dashed against that house, and it fell; and, the fall thereof, was, great.
And it came to pass, when Jesus ended these words, with astonishment were the multitudes being struck at his teaching;
for he was teaching them as one having, authority, and not as their Scribes.