So it came to pass that, all the earth, was of one manner of speech,—and of one stock of words.
And it came to pass as they brake away onwards, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and dwelt there.
Then said they, each man to his friend, Come on! let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly,—So the bricks, served them for stone, and bitumen, served them for mortar,
And they said Come on! let us build for ourselves a city, and a tower with its head in the heavens, so let us make for ourselves a name,—lest we be scattered abroad over the face of all the earth.
And Yahweh came down, to behold the city, and the tower,—which the sons of men had built.
Then said Yahweh: Lo! one people and one manner of speech, have they all, this, then is what they have begun to do,—now, therefore, nothing will be withholden from them which they may plan to do.
Come on! let us go down, and there confuse their speech,—that they may not understand, each man the speech of his friend.
So Yahweh scattered them from thence over the face of all the earth,—and so they left off building the city.
For this cause, was the name thereof called Babel [="Confusion"]; because there, did Yahweh confuse the speech of all the earth,—and, from thence, did Yahweh scatter them abroad, over the face of all the earth.
These, are the genealogies of Shem, Shem was a hundred years old when he begat Arpachshad, two years after the flood
and Shem lived after he begat Arpachshad, five hundred years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And, Arpachshad, lived thirty-five years,—and begat Shelah;
and Arpachshad lived after he begat Shelah, four hundred and three years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And, Shelah, lived thirty years,—and begat Eber;
and Shelah lived, after he begat Eber, four hundred and three years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And Eber lived thirty-four years,—and begat Peleg;
and Eber lived after he begat Peleg, four hundred and thirty years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu:
and Peleg lived after he begat Reu, two hundred and nine years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And Reu lived thirty-two years—and begat Serug;
and Reu lived after he begat Serug, two hundred and seven years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And Serug lived thirty years,—and begat Nahor;
and Serug lived after he begat Nahor, two hundred years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And Nahor lived twenty-nine years,—and begat Terah;
and Nahor lived, after he begat Terah, a hundred and nineteen years,—and begat sons and daughters.
And Terah lived seventy years,—and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
These, then are the generations of Terah, Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran,—and, Haran, begat Lot;
and Haran died, in the presence of Terah his father,—in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees.
And Abram and Nahor took to themselves wives; the name of Abram’s wife, was Sarai; and, the name of Nahor’s wife, Milcah, daughter of Haran father of Milcah, and father of Iscah.
And, Sarai, remained barren,—she had no child,
And Terah took Abram his son and Lot son of Haran his son’s son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, wife of Abram his son,—and came forth with them out of Ur of the Chaldees, that they might go their way towards the land of Canaan, and they came in as far as Haran and dwelt there.
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years,—and Terah died in Haran.