A wicked man flees when no man pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion.
For the transgression of a land many are the rulers of it. But by men of understanding and knowledge the state shall be prolonged.
A needy man who oppresses the poor is a sweeping rain which leaves no food.
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but such as keep the law contend with them.
Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek Jehovah understand all things.
Better is the poor man who walks in his integrity, than he who is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.
He who keeps the law is a wise son, but he who is a companion of gluttons shames his father.
He who augments his substance by interest and increase, gathers it for him who has pity on the poor.
He who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.
He who causes the upright to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit. But the perfect shall inherit good.
The rich man is wise in his own conceit, but a poor man who has understanding searches him out.
When the righteous triumph, there is great glory, but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.
He who covers his transgressions shall not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them shall obtain mercy.
Happy is the man who fears always, but he who hardens his heart shall fall into mischief.
A roaring lion, and a ranging bear, is a wicked ruler over a poor people.
The ruler who lacks understanding is also a great oppressor, but he who hates covetousness shall prolong his days.
A man who is laden with the blood of any person shall flee to the pit. Let no man stay him.
He who walks uprightly shall be delivered, but he who is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread, but he who follows after vanity shall have poverty enough.
A faithful man shall abound with blessings, but he who makes haste to be rich shall not be unpunished.
To have respect of persons is not good, nor that a man should transgress for a piece of bread.
He who has an evil eye hastens after riches, and does not know that want shall come upon him.
He who rebukes a man shall afterward find more favor than he who flatters with the tongue.
He who robs his father or his mother, and says, It is no transgression, the same is the companion of a destroyer.
He who is of a greedy spirit stirs up strife, but he who puts his trust in Jehovah shall be made fat.
He who trusts in his own heart is a fool, but he who walks wisely, he shall be delivered.
He who gives to the poor shall not lack, but he who hides his eyes shall have many a curse.
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase.