Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee, and portray upon it a city, even Jerusalem.
And lay siege against it, and build forts against it, and cast up a mound against it. Also set camps against it, and plant battering rams against it round about.
And take thou to thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between thee and the city. And set thy face toward it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shall lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.
Moreover lie thou upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it. According to the number of the days that thou shall lie upon it, thou shall bear their iniquity.
For I have appointed the years of their iniquity to be a number of days to thee, even three hundred and ninety days. So thou shall bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
And again, when thou have accomplished these, thou shall lie on thy right side, and shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days, each day for a year. I have appointed it to thee.
And thou shall set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with thine arm uncovered, and thou shall prophesy against it.
And, behold, I lay bands upon thee, and thou shall not turn thee from one side to the other, till thou have accomplished the days of thy siege.
Also take thou to thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and make thee bread of it, according to the number of the days that thou shall lie upon thy side, even three hundred and ninety days, thou shall eat of it.
And thy food which thou shall eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day. Thou shall eat it from time to time.
And thou shall drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin. Thou shall drink from time to time.
And thou shall eat it as barley cakes, and thou shall bake it in their sight with dung that comes out of man.
And Jehovah said, Even thus shall the sons of Israel eat their bread unclean among the nations where I will drive them.
Then I said, Ah lord Jehovah! Behold, my soul has not been polluted. For from my youth up even till now I have not eaten of that which dies of itself, or is torn of beasts, neither has abominable flesh come into my mouth.
Then he said to me, See, I have given thee cow's dung for man's dung, and thou shall prepare thy bread of it.
Moreover he said to me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem, and they shall eat bread by weight, and with fearfulness, and they shall drink water by measure, and in dismay,
that they may lack bread and water, and be dismayed one with another, and pine away in their iniquity.