And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man, Prophesy against the shepherds of Israel,- Prophesy, and thou shalt say unto them, even to the shepherds— Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh— Alas! for the shepherds of Israel who have been tending, themselves, Is it not the flock that the shepherds should tend?
The milk, ye do eat And with the wool, ye do clothe your- selves, The well-fed, ye do sacrifice, The flock, ye do not tend
The weak, have ye not strengthened And, the sick, have ye not healed. And the torn, have ye not bound up, And that which was driven out, have ye not brought back, And that which was straying, have ye not sought out; But with force, have ye ruled them and with rigour.
And they were scattered, because there was no shepherd; And they became food for every wild beast of the field. So were they scattered.
My sheep did wander through all the mountains, And over every high hill,- And over all the face of the land, were my sheep scattered, And there was none to inquire And none to seek out.
Wherefore ye shepherds, hear ye the word of Yahweh:
As I live,— Declareth My Lord Yahweh, Surely because my flock became a prey. And my flock became food for every wild beast of the field, through having no shepherd, Neither did my shepherds inquire after the flock, —But the shepherds tended themselves. And my flock, they tended not
Therefore ye shepherds, hear ye the word of Yahweh:
Thus, saith My Lord. Yahweh, Behold me! against the shepherds So then I will require my flock at their hand And will cause them to cease tending the flock, Neither shall the shepherds any longer tend themselves, But I will deliver my flock out of their mouth, that they may not be their food.
For Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh,- Here am I myself Therefore will I inquire after my flock and seek them out:
As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the day he is in the midst of his sheep that are scattered, So! will I seek out my sheep, and will deliver them out of all the places where they were scattered in the day of cloud and thick darkness;
And I will bring them out from among the peoples And will gather them out of the lands, And will bring them upon their own soil, And will tend them Upon the mountains of Israel, In the ravines. And in all the habitable places of the land:
In good pastures, will I feed them, And on the mountains of the height of Israel, shall be their fold,— There, shall they lie down in a fold that is good, And on pasture that is fat, shall they feed. among the mountains of Israel.
I myself, will tend my flock. And, I myself, will cause them to lie down, Declareth My Lord Yahweh:
That which is straying, will I seek out. And that which hath been driven away, will I bring back, And that which is torn, will I bind up, And the weak, will I strengthen,- But the fat and the strong, will I watch I will feed them with justice.
And as for you O my flock, Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh: Behold me! judging between one kind of small cattle and another as well the rams as the he-goats.
Is it too small a thing for you that on the good pasture, ye feed, But the remainder of your pastures, ye must needs trample down with your feet? Or that of the pure waters, ye drink But the waters left remaining—with your feet, ye must needs foul?
And my flock On what hath been trampled down by your feet, may feed, And of what hath been fouled by your feet, may drink?
Therefore Thus, saith My Lord Yahweh, unto them: Here am I myself. Therefore will I judge between fat sheep and lean sheep,
Because with the side and with the shoulder, ye do thrust, And with your horns, ye do push all the sick,— Until you have scattered them abroad
Therefore will I bring salvation to my flock, and they shall be no longer a prey,—but I will judge between one sheep and another,
And I will raise up over them one shepherd And he shall tend them, Even my servant David,— He, will tend them, And, he, will become to them a shepherd;
And, I Yahweh, will become to them a God. my servant David, being a prince in their midst,— I Yahweh, have spoken;
And I will solemnise for them a covenant of prosperity, And will cause to cease the mischievous wild-beast out of the land, And they shall dwell in the wilderness, securely, And shall sleep in the forests;
And I, will make them and the places round about my hill a blessing,- And I will cause the abundant rain to come down in its season abundant rains of blessing, shall they be;
And the tree of the field shall yield his fruit And, the land, shall yield her increase, And they shall remain on their own soil in security,- So shall they know that I, am Yahweh, When I have broken the bars of their yoke, And shall deliver them out of the hand of them who have been using them as slaves.
And they shall be no longer a prey for the nations, Nor shall the wild beast of the earth! devour them,— But they shall dwell securely with none to put them in terror.
And I will raise up unto them a plantation for fame,- And there shall be no longer the destroyed of hunger in the land, Neither shall they bear any longer the reproach of the nations.
So shall they know that, I, Yahweh their God am with them,- And that they are my people the house of Israel, Declareth My Lord. Yahweh.
Ye, therefore, my flock the flock of my pasture, are, men,— I, am your God, Declareth My Lord Yahweh.