And he called to him his twelve disciples, and gave them power over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every sickness and every disease.
Now the names of the twelve apostles are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the publican; James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus;
Simon of Cana, and Judas Iscariot, he who betrayed him.
These twelve Jesus sent forth, when he had charged them, saying, Go not away to gentiles, and enter not any city of the Samaritans;
but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And, as ye go, proclaim, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons; freely ye received, freely give.
Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass, in your girdles;
nor bag for the journey, nor two coats, nor sandals, nor a staff. For the laborer is worthy of his living.
And into whatever city or town ye enter, inquire who in it is worthy; and there abide till ye leave the place.
And as ye enter the house, salute it.
And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it; but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you.
And whoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye go out of that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet.
Truly do I say to you, It will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city.
Lo! I send you forth as sheep into the midst of wolves. Be therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
But beware of men. For they will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues;
and ye will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, that ye may bear testimony to them and to the gentiles.
But when they deliver you up, be not anxious as to how or What ye shall speak; for it will be given you in that hour what ye shall speak.
For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father that speaketh in you.
And brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child; and children will rise up against their parent, and put them to death;
and ye will be hated by all on account of my name. But he that endureth to the end will be saved.
And when they persecute you in one city, flee to another. For truly do I say to you, Ye will not have gone over the cities of Israel till the Son of man hath come.
A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his lord.
It is enough for the disciple to be as his teacher, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more will they so call those of his household!
Fear them not therefore. For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed; and hid, that will not be known.
What I say to you in darkness, speak ye in the light; and what ye hear in the ear, proclaim ye upon the housetops.
And fear not those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul; but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? and not one of them shall fall to the ground without your Father.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Fear not therefore; ye are of more value than many sparrows.
Every one therefore who shall acknowledge me before men, him will I also acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven.
But whoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father who is in heaven.
Think not that I came to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword.
For I came to set a man at variance with his father, and a daughter with her mother, and a bride with her mother-in-law;
and they of a man’s own household will be his foes.
He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me; and he that loveth son or daughter more than me, is not worthy of me;
and he that doth not take his cross, and follow me, is not worthy of me.
He that findeth his life will lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake will find it.
He that receiveth you, receiveth me; and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me.
He that receiveth a prophet because he is a prophet, will receive a prophet’s reward, and he that receiveth a righteous man because he is a righteous man, will receive a righteous man’s reward.
And whoever shall give to drink only a cup of cold water to one of these little ones because he is a disciple, truly do I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward.