Ye children, be obedient unto your parents [in the Lord], for this is right:
Honour thy father and thy mother,—which indeed is the first commandment with promise,
That it may come to be, well with thee, and thou shalt be long-lived upon the land.
And ye fathers, be not provoking your children to anger, but be nourishing them up in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.
Ye servants, be obedient unto them who, after the flesh, are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto the Christ;
Not by way of eye-service as man-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God, from the soul,
with good will, rendering service—as unto the Lord, and not unto men;
Knowing that, each one, whatsoever he may do that is good, the same, shall he receive back from the Lord, whether bond or free.
And ye masters, the same things, be doing towards them, forbearing your threat—knowing that, both their and your Master, is in the heavens, and, respect of persons, there is none, with him.
For the rest, be empowering yourselves in the Lord, and in the grasp of his might:
Put on the complete armour of God, with a view to your having power to stand against the strategies of the adversary;
Because our struggle is not against blood and flesh, but, against the principalities, against the authorities, against the world-holders, of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenlies.
For this cause, take up the complete armour of God, in order that ye may receive power to withstand in the evil day, and, all things, having accomplished, to stand!
Stand therefore,—having girded your loins with truth, and put on the breastplate of righteousness,
And shod your feet with the readiness of the glad-message of peace;
With all, having taken up the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall have power, all the ignited darts of the wicked one, to quench;
And, the helmet of salvation, welcome ye, and the sword of the spirit, which is what God hath spoken,
With all prayer and supplication, praying in every season, in spirit, and, thereunto, watching, with all perseverance and supplication, for all the saints,—
And on behalf of me;—that, unto me, may be given discourse in the opening of my mouth, with freedom of utterance, to make known the sacred secret [of the glad-message]
In behalf of which I am conducting an embassy in chains, that, therein, I may use freedom of utterance as it is needful for me to speak.
In order, however, that, ye also, may know the things which relate to me—what I am accomplishing,—all things, shall Tychicus make known unto you, [he] the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord,
Whom I have sent unto you for this very purpose, that ye may get to know the things concerning us, and he may encourage your hearts.
Peace unto the brethren, and love with faith,—from God our Father, and Lord Jesus Christ.
Favour be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptness.