Paul, an apostle of Yahushua the Messiah by the commandment of יהוה our Saviour, and Master Yahushua the Messiah our hope;
Unto Timothy, my own son in the faith: Favour, mercy, and peace, from יהוה our Father and Yahushua the Messiah our Master.
As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine,
Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions, rather than edifying which is in faith: so do.
Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned:
From which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling;
Desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm.
But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully;
Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the wicked and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine;
According to the glorious gospel of the blessed Elohim, which was committed to my trust.
And I thank the Messiah Yahushua our Master, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry;
Who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.
And the favour of our Master was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in the Messiah Yahushua .
This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that the Messiah Yahushua came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief.
Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Yahushua the Messiah might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting.
Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise Elohim, be honour and glory for ever and ever.
This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare;
Holding faith, and a good conscience; which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck:
Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme.