And it happened on the second chief sabbath, He passed along through the sown fields. And His disciples plucked the heads and were eating, rubbing with the hands.
But some of the Pharisees said to them, Why do you do that which is not lawful to do on the sabbaths?
And answering, Jesus said to them, Have you never read this, what David did when he hungered, and those being with him?
How he went into the house of God, and he took the Loaves of Arrangement, and ate, and even gave to those with him, which it is not lawful to eat, except only the priests?
And He said to them, The Son of man is Lord of the sabbath also.
And it also happened on another sabbath, He going into the synagogue and teaching. And a man was there, and his right hand was withered.
And the scribes and the Pharisees kept close by Him, to see if He would heal on the sabbath, so that they might find a charge against Him.
But He knew their reasonings. And He said to the man having the withered hand, Rise up and stand in the middle! And rising up, he stood.
Then Jesus said to them, I will ask you one thing, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbaths, or to do ill, to save a life, or to destroy it ?
And having looked around at them all, He said to the man, Stretch out your hand! And he did so. And his hand was restored sound as the other.
But they were filled with madness and talked to one another as to what they might do to Jesus.
And it happened in these days, He went out into the mountain to pray. And He was spending the night in prayer to God.
And when it became day, He called His disciples, also choosing out twelve from them, whom He also named apostles:
Simon, whom He also named Peter; and his brother Andrew; James and John; Philip and Bartholomew;
Matthew and Thomas; James the son of Alpheus, and Simon, the one being called Zealot;
Judas brother of James; and Judas Iscariot, who also became the betrayer.
And coming down with them, he stood on a level place. And a crowd of His disciples, and a great multitude of the people were there from all Judea and Jerusalem, and from the coast country of Tyre and Sidon. These came to hear Him, and to be healed from their diseases,
also those who had been tormented by unclean spirits. And they were healed.
And all the crowd sought to touch Him, because power went out from Him and healed all.
And lifting up His eyes to His disciples, He said: Blessed are the poor, for the kingdom of God is yours.
Blessed are those hungering now, for you will be filled. Blessed are those weeping now, for you will laugh.
Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they cut you off, and will reproach you , and will cast out your name as evil, on account of the Son of man;
rejoice in that day, and leap for joy; for, behold, your reward is much in Heaven! For their fathers did according to these things to the prophets.
But woe to you, rich ones, for you have your comfort!
Woe to you, those having been filled, for you will hunger! Woe to you, those laughing now, for you will mourn and lament!
Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers did according to these things to the false prophets.
But I say to you, those hearing: Love your enemies, do good to those hating you,
bless those cursing you and pray for those insulting you.
To those striking you on the cheek, turn the other also. And from those taking your garment, do not keep back the tunic also.
And to everyone asking you, give. And do not ask back from those taking your things.
And according as you desire that men should do to you, you also do the same to them.
And if you love those who love you, what thanks is there to you? For even sinners love those who love them.
And if you do good to those who do good to you, what thanks is there to you? For even the sinners do the same.
And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what thanks is there to you? For the sinners lend to sinners so that they may receive the same.
But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing in return ; and your reward will be much; and you will be sons of the Most High, for He is kind to the unthankful and evil ones.
Therefore, be merciful, even as your Father also is merciful.
Judge not, and in no way be judged. Do not condemn, and in no way you will be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven.
Give, and good measure will be given to you, pressed down and shaken together, and running over, they will give into your bosom. For the same measure which you measure, it will be measured back to you.
And He spoke a parable to them: A blind one is not able to guide a blind one. Will they not both fall into the ditch?
A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone who has been perfected will be like his teacher.
But why do you look on the twig in your brother's eye, but do not consider the log in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother, Brother, let me pull out the twig in your eye, not yourself seeing the log in your eye? Hypocrite! First take the log out of your eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the twig in your brother's eye.
For there is not a good tree that produces bad fruit, nor a bad tree that produces good fruit.
For each tree is known from its own fruit. For they do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush.
The good man brings forth good out of the good treasure of his heart. And the evil man brings forth evil out of the evil treasure of his heart, for his mouth speaks out of the abundance of his heart.
And why do you call Me Lord, Lord, and do not do what I say?
Everyone coming to Me and hearing My words, and doing them, I will show you to whom he is like:
He is like a man building a house, who dug and deepened, and laid a foundation on the rock. And a flood having occurred, the stream burst against that house and could not shake it, for it had been founded on the rock.
But he who heard and did not perform, he is like a man having built his house on the earth without a foundation, on which the stream burst, and it immediately fell; and the ruin of that house was great.