By reason of this grace, I, Paul, am a prisoner of Jesus Christ, for the sake of you Gentiles.
Now certainly, you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, which has been given to me among you:
that, by means of revelation, the mystery was made known to me, just as I have written above in a few words.
Yet, by reading this closely, you might be able to understand my prudence in the mystery of Christ.
In other generations, this was unknown to the sons of men, even as it has now been revealed to his holy Apostles and Prophets in the Spirit,
so that the Gentiles would be co-heirs, and of the same body, and partners together, by his promise in Christ Jesus, through the Gospel.
Of this Gospel, I have been made a minister, according to the gift of the grace of God, which has been given to me by means of the operation of his virtue.
Although I am the least of all the saints, I have been given this grace: to evangelize among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ,
and to enlighten everyone concerning the dispensation of the mystery, hidden before the ages in God who created all things,
so that the manifold wisdom of God may become well-known to the principalities and powers in the heavens, through the Church,
according to that timeless purpose, which he has formed in Christ Jesus our Lord.
In him we trust, and so we approach with confidence, through his faith.
Because of this, I ask you not to be weakened by my tribulations on your behalf; for this is your glory.
By reason of this grace, I bend my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
from whom all paternity in heaven and on earth takes its name.
And I ask him to grant to you to be strengthened in virtue by his Spirit, in accord with the wealth of his glory, in the inner man,
so that Christ may live in your hearts through a faith rooted in, and founded on, charity.
So may you be able to embrace, with all the saints, what is the width and length and height and depth
of the charity of Christ, and even be able to know that which surpasses all knowledge, so that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.
Now to him who is able to do all things, more abundantly than we could ever ask or understand, by means of the virtue which is at work in us:
to him be glory, in the Church and in Christ Jesus, throughout every generation, forever and ever. Amen.