And unto Moses, he said—Come up unto Yahweh—thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, so shall ye bow yourselves down from afar.
And Moses alone shall draw near unto Yahweh, but, they shall not draw near, and, the people, shall not come up with him.
So Moses came, and recounted to the people all the words of Yahweh, and all the regulations, and all the people responded with one voice and said, All the words which Yahweh hath spoken, will we do.
Then wrote Moses all the words of Yahweh, and rose up early in the morning, and builded an altar, under the mountain, and twelve pillars, for the twelve tribes of Israel:
and he sent young men of the sons of Israel, and they caused to go up, ascending-sacrifices,—and slew peace-offerings to Yahweh, of oxen.
Then took Moses half of the blood, and put it in basins, and half of the blood, dashed he over the altar:
then took he the book of the covenant, and read in the ears of the people. And they said, All that Yahweh hath spoken, will we do, and will hearken,
Then Moses took the blood, and dashed over the people, and said, Lo! the blood of the covenant which Yahweh hath solemnised with you, over all these words.
Then went up Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel;
and they saw the God of Israel,—and under his feet, like a pavement of sapphire, and like the very heavens for brightness; and
against the nobles of the sons of Israel, put he not forth his hand,—so then they had vision of God, and did eat and drink,
Then said Yahweh unto Moses—Come thou up unto me in the mountain and remain thou there,—for I must give thee tables of stone and the law and the commandment, which I have written to direct them.
And Moses rose up, and Joshua his attendant, and Moses went up into the mountain of God;
but, unto the elders, he said—Tarry for us here, until we return unto you. And lo! Aaron and Hur, are with you, he that hath a cause, let him draw near unto them.
So then Moses wont up into the mountain,—and the cloud covered the mountain.
And the glory of Yahweh rested upon Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days,—then called he unto Moses on the seventh day, out of the midst of the cloud.
And the appearance of the glory of Yahweh was like a consuming fire on the top of the mountain,—in the sight of the sons of Israel.
And Moses entered into the midst of the cloud and ascended into the mountain. And it came to pass that Moses was in the mountain forty days and forty nights.