Then Joseph went in and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brothers, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, have come out of the land of Canaan. And, behold, they are in the land of Goshen.
And he took five men from among his brothers, and presented them to Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to his brothers, What is your occupation? And they said to Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and our fathers.
And they said to Pharaoh, We have come to sojourn in the land, for there is no pasture for thy servants' flocks, for the famine is severe in the land of Canaan. Now therefore, we pray thee, let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.
And Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brothers have come to thee.
The land of Egypt is before thee. Make thy father and thy brothers to dwell in the best of the land; in the land of Goshen let them dwell. And if thou know any able men among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.
And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh, and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said to Jacob, How many are the days of the years of thy life?
And Jacob said to Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty years. Few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from the presence of Pharaoh.
And Joseph placed his father and his brothers, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.
And Joseph nourished his father, and his brothers, and all his father's household, with bread, according to their families.
And there was no bread in all the land, for the famine was very severe, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine.
And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the grain which they bought. And Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.
And when the money was all spent in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph, and said, Give us bread, for why should we die in thy presence? For our money fails.
And Joseph said, Give your cattle, and I will give you for your cattle, if money fails.
And they brought their cattle to Joseph. And Joseph gave them bread in exchange for the horses, and for the flocks, and for the herds, and for the donkeys. And he fed them with bread in exchange for all their cattle for that year.
And when that year was ended, they came to him the second year, and said to him, We will not hide from my lord, how that our money is all spent, and the herds of cattle are my lord's; there is nothing left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands.
Why should we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants to Pharaoh. And give us seed, that we may live, and not die, and that the land not be desolate.
So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh. For the Egyptians, every man, sold his field, because the famine was severe upon them. And the land became Pharaoh's.
And as for the people, he moved them to the cities from one end of the border of Egypt even to the other end of it.
Only he did not buy the land of the priests, for the priests had a portion from Pharaoh, and ate their portion which Pharaoh gave them. Therefore they did not sell their land.
Then Joseph said to the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh. Lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land.
And it shall come to pass at the ingatherings, that ye shall give a fifth to Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for seed of the field, and for your food, and for those of your households, and for food for your little ones.
And they said, Thou have saved our lives. Let us find favor in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants.
And Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of Egypt to this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth. Only the land of the priests alone did not become Pharaoh's.
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen. And they got possessions in it, and were fruitful, and multiplied exceedingly.
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. So the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were a hundred forty-seven years.
And the time drew near that Israel must die. And he called his son Joseph, and said to him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, put thy hand, I pray thee, under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me. Bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt,
but when I sleep with my fathers, thou shall carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their burying place. And he said, I will do as thou have said.
And he said, Swear to me, and he swore to him. And Israel bowed himself upon the head of the bed.