And Elisha spoke to the woman whose son he had revived, saying, Rise up and go, you and your household. And stay where you can stay, for Jehovah has called for a famine. And also, it shall come on the land seven years.
And the woman rose up and did according to the word of the man of God. And she and her household went and stayed in the land of the Philistines seven years.
And it happened at the end of seven years that the woman returned from the land of the Philistines, and went to cry to the king for her house, and for her field.
And the king was speaking to Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, saying, Please tell me all of the great things that Elisha has done.
And it happened as he was telling the king how he had revived the dead, then, behold, the woman whose son he had revived was crying to the king for her house and for her field. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son whom Elisha revived.
And the king asked the woman, and she told him. And the king appointed to her a certain eunuch, saying, Give back all that she has, and all the increase of the field from the day she left the land even until now.
And Elisha came to Damascus. And Ben-hadad the king of Syria was sick. And he was told, saying, The man of God has come here.
And the king said to Hazael, Take a present in your hand and go to meet the man of God. And you shall seek Jehovah by him, saying, Shall I revive from this sickness?
And Hazael went to meet him and took a present in his hand, even of every good thing from Damascus, a burden of forty camels. And he came in and stood before him, and said, Your son Ben-hadad, the king of Syria has sent me to you, saying, Shall I revive from this sickness?
And Elisha said to him, Go, say to him, You shall surely revive. But Jehovah has shown me that he will surely die.
And he fixed his face; yea, he settled it until he was ashamed. And the man of God wept.
And Hazael said, Why is my lord weeping? And he said, Because I know the evil that you will do to the sons of Israel. You will send their fortified places into fire and you will slay their young men with the sword. And you will dash their sucklings to pieces; and you will rip up their pregnant women.
And Hazael said, But what! Is your servant a dog that he should do this great thing? And Elisha said, Jehovah has shown me that you will be king over Syria.
And he left Elisha and came to his lord, and he said to him, What did Elisha say to you. And he said, He said to me, You shall surely recover.
And it happened on the next day, he took a plaited cloth and dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, and he died. And Hazael reigned in his place.
And in the fifth year of Jehoram the son of Ahab the king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat was king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, reigned.
And he was a son of thirty two years when he began his reign. And he reigned eight years in Jerusalem
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done, for a daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did that which was evil in the eyes of Jehovah.
And Jehovah was not willing to destroy Judah, for His servant David's sake, as He had said to give him a lamp to his sons forever.
In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and they caused a king to reign over them.
And Jehoram passed over to Zair, and all the chariots with him. And it happened, he rose up by night and struck Edom, who had encircled him, and the commanders of the chariots. And the people fled to their tents.
Yet Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time.
And the rest of the acts of Jehoram, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And Jehoram lay with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And his son Ahaziah began to reign in his place.
In the twelfth year of Jehoram the son of Ahab, the king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, began to reign.
Ahaziah was a son of twenty two years when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri, the king of Israel.
And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did that which was evil in the eyes of Jehovah, like the house of Ahab, for he was the son-in-law of the house of Ahab.
And he went with Jehoram the son of Ahab to battle with Hazael the king of Syria in Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians struck Jehoram.
And Jehoram the king returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds with which the Syrians had struck him in Ramah, as he fought with Hazael the king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram the king of Judah had gone down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, for he was sick.