In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
Now, the earth, had become waste and wild, and darkness, was on the face of the roaring deep,—but, the Spirit of God, was brooding on the face of the waters,
And God said—Light, be, And light was.
And God saw the light, that it was, good, and God divided the light, from the, darkness;
and God called the light, day, but the darkness, called he, night. So it was evening—and it was morning, one day.
And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it be a means of dividing, between waters and waters,
And God made the expanse, and it divided between the waters that were under the expanse and the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so.
And God called the expanse, heavens. So it was evening—and it was morning, a, second day.
And God said—Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together, into one place, and let the dry—ground appear. And it was so.
And God called, the dry-ground, land, but the gathering together of the waters, called he seas. And God saw that it was good.
And God said—Let the land put-forth vegetation—herb yielding seed, fruit-tree, bearing fruit after its kind, whose seed is within it on the land. And it was so,
And the land brought-forth vegetation—herb yielding seed after its kind, and tree bearing fruit, whose seed is within it, after its kind, And God saw that it was good.
So it was evening—and it was morning, a third day.
And God said—Let there be luminaries in the expanse of the heavens, to divide between the day and the night,—and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years;
yea let them be for luminaries in the expanse of the heavens, to give light on the earth. And it was so.
And God made the two great luminaries,—the greater luminary to rule the day, and the lesser luminary to rule the night, also the stars.
And God set them in the expanse of the heavens,—to give light on the earth;
and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good.
So it was evening—and it was morning, a fourth day.
And God said—Let the waters swarm with an abundance of living soul, and, birds, shall fly over the earth, over the face of the expanse of the heavens.
And God created the great sea-monsters,—and every living soul that moveth—[with] which the waters swarmed after their kind and every winged bird—after its kind. And God saw that it was good.
And God blessed them, saying,—Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let, the birds, multiply in the land.
So it was evening—and it was morning, a fifth day.
And God said—Let the land, bring forth, living soul, after its kind, tame-beast and creeping thing and wild-beast, of the land, after its kind. And it was so.
And God made the wild-beast of the land after its kind, and the tame-beast after its kind, and every creeping thing of the ground, after its kind. And God saw that it was good.
And God said—Let us make man in our image after our likeness—and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the bird of the heavens and over the tame-beast—and over all the land, and over every creeping thing, that creepeth on the land.
And God created the man in his own image, In the image of God, created he him,—Male and female, created he, them.
And God blessed them, and God said to them Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it,—and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the bird of the heavens, and over every living thing that moveth on the land.
And God said—Lo! I have given to you—every herb yielding seed which is on the face of all the land, and every tree wherein is the fruit of a tree yielding seed,—to you, shall it be, for food;
and to every living thing of the land—and to every bird of the heavens, and to every thing that moveth on the land, wherein is a living soul, every green herb for food. And it was so.
And God saw every thing which he had made, and lo! it was very good. So it was evening—and it was morning, the sixth day.