I therefore, the prisoner in the Lord, call on you to walk worthily of the calling in which ye were called,
with all humility and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing each other in love.
Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace,
one body, and one Spirit. Just as also ye were called in one hope of your calling,
one Lord, one faith, one immersion,
one God and Father of all. He is over all, and through all, and in us all.
But the grace was given to each of us, according to the measure of the gift of the Christ.
Therefore he says, Having ascended on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts to men.
And what is the ascended, except that he also first descended into the lower parts of the earth?
He who descended is also the same man who ascended high above all the heavens, so that he might fill all things.
And indeed he gave the apostles, and the prophets, and the evangelists, and the shepherds and teachers
for the perfecting of the sanctified, for the work of ministry, for edification of the body of the Christ.
Until we all attain to the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to a standard of stature of the fullness of the Christ.
So that we may no longer be childish, tossed about and carried about by every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men in craftiness with the methodology of error.
But being truthful in love, we may cause all things to grow for him who is the head-the Christ-
from whom the whole body, joined together and united together through every connection of the supply, according to the working of each one part within a standard, makes the growth of the body for the construction of itself by love.
This I say therefore, and solemnly declare in the Lord, for you to walk no longer as also the other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind,
darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the callousness of their heart.
Who, having become callous, gave themselves over to licentiousness for the work of all uncleanness in greed.
But ye did not so learn the Christ,
if indeed ye heard him, and were taught in him, as truth is in Jesus,
for you to put off the old man according to your former conduct, the man who is corrupt according to the desires of deceitfulness,
and to be renewed in the spirit of your mind,
and to put on the new man according to God, the man who was created in righteousness and piety of the truth.
Therefore having put off falsehood, let each man speak truth with his neighbor, because we are body-parts of each other.
Be ye angry, and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath,
neither give a place to the devil.
Let the man who steals steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands the good, so that he may have to give to him who has need.
Let no corrupt speech go out of your mouth, rather if there is any good word for edification of a need, so that it may give grace to those who hear.
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in which ye are sealed for a day of redemption.
Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamor, and reviling be taken away from you, with all evil.
And become good toward each other, compassionate, forgiving each other, even as also God in Christ forgave us.