And having again entered into Capernaum, after some days it was heard that he was in a house.
And straightaway many were gathered together, so as to accommodate no more, not even near the door. And he spoke the word to them.
And they come bringing to him a paralyzed man, being taken by four men.
And not being able to come near to him because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was. And when they had broken through, they let down the bed on which the paralyzed man lay.
And having seen their faith, Jesus says to the paralyzed man, Child, thy sins are forgiven thee.
But some of the scholars were sitting there, and deliberating in their hearts,
Why does this man speak blasphemies this way. Who can forgive sins but one, God?
And straightaway Jesus, having perceived in his spirit that they so deliberated within themselves, said to them, Why do ye deliberate these things in your hearts?
Which is easier, to say to the paralyzed man, Thy sins are forgiven thee, or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed and walk?
But that ye may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins (he says to the paralyzed man),
I say to thee, Arise, and take up thy bed, and go to thy house.
And straightaway he arose, and having taken up the bed, he went forth before them all, so as for all to be amazed, and to glorify God, saying, We never saw it like this.
And he went forth again by the sea, and all the multitude resorted to him, and he taught them.
And as he passed by he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax office. And he says to him, Follow thou me. And having risen, he followed him.
And it came to pass, while he was dining in his house, that many tax collectors and sinners were dining with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many, and they followed him.
And the scholars of the Pharisees, when they saw him eating with the tax collectors and sinners, they said to his disciples, Why is it that he eats and drinks with tax collectors and sinners?
And when Jesus heard it he says to them, Those who are strong have no need of a physician, but those faring badly. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners for repentance.
And John's disciples and those of the Pharisees were fasting. And they come and say to him, Why do John's disciples and those of the Pharisees fast, but the disciples with you do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, The sons of the wedding hall cannot fast while the bridegroom is with them. As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will they fast in those day.
And no man sews a new patch of cloth on an old garment, otherwise the patch of it pulls away, the new from the old, and a tear becomes worse.
And no man puts new wine into old wineskins, otherwise the new wine bursts the wineskins, and the wine is spilled, and the wineskins will be destroyed. But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
And it came to pass, that he was passing through the grain fields on the sabbath day, and his disciples began to make a path while plucking the ears.
And the Pharisees said to him, Look, why are they doing what is not permitted on the sabbath day?
And he said to them, Did ye never read what David did when he had need, and was hungry, he and those with him?
How he entered into the house of God under Abiathar the high priest, and ate the loaves of the presentation, which is not permitted to eat except for the priests. And he also gave to those who were with him?
And he said to them, The sabbath came into being for sake of man, and not man for sake of the sabbath.
So then the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.