And the whole number of them arose, and led him away to Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying: We found this man turning the people away, and forbidding to give tribute to Cæsar, saying that he himself is Christ, a king.
And Pilate asked him, saying: Are you the king of the Jews? He answered and said to him: You say it.
Pilate said to the chief priests and to the multitudes: I find no fault in this man.
But they became the more urgent, and said: He excites the people, teaching throughout the whole of Judea, beginning from Galilee to this place.
When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked if the man was a Galilean.
And when he learned that he belonged to the dominion of Herod, he sent him to Herod, who was at that time in Jerusalem.
When Herod saw Jesus, he rejoiced greatly; for he had, for a long time, desired to see him, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to see some sign done by him.
And he questioned him concerning many things; but he made him no answer.
And the chief priests and the scribes stood by, and vehemently accused him.
But Herod and his guards treated him with contempt; and having mocked him, and put on him a gaudy robe, he sent him back to Pilate.
And on the same day, Pilate and Herod became friends to each other; for, before this, they had been at enmity the one toward the other.
And Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
and said to them: You have brought to me this man as one that turns the people away; and behold, I have examined him before you, and have found in this man no fault, with respect to the things of which you accuse him;
nor indeed did Herod; for I sent you to him, and behold, nothing worthy of death has been done by him.
I will, therefore, chastise him, and release him.
For it was necessary that he should release to them one at the feast.
And the whole multitude cried out, saying: Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas.
He, for a certain seditious movement that had been made in the city, and for murder, had been thrown into prison.
Therefore Pilate, desiring to release Jesus, again called to them.
But they answered, saying: Crucify, crucify him.
He said to them the third time: Why, what evil has he done? I have found nothing in him worthy of death. I will, therefore, chastise him, and release him.
But they were urgent with loud voices, demanding that he should be crucified. And their voices, and those of the chief priests, prevailed.
And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they demanded.
And he released him that for a seditious movement, and for murder, had been thrown into prison, whom they demanded; but Jesus, he delivered up to their will.
And as they led him away, they laid hold of Simon, a certain Cyrenian, who was coming from the country, and on him they laid the cross, that he might carry it after Jesus.
And there followed him a great number of the people, and of women that bewailed and lamented him.
But Jesus turned, and said to them, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
For, behold, the days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never gave suck.
Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.
For, if they do these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry?
And two others, who were evil-doers, were led out to be put to death with him.
And when they came to the place called Skull, they there crucified him and the evil-doers; one on the right, and the other on the left.
And Jesus said: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And dividing his clothing into parts, they cast lots.
And the people stood and looked on. And the rulers, with them scoffed at him, saying: He saved others, let him save himself if he is the Christ, the chosen of God.
The soldiers also derided him, coming to him and offering him vinegar,
and saying: If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself.
And a superscription was also written over him in Greek and in Roman and in Hebrew letters, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And one of the evil-doers that were hanged reviled him, saying: If you are the Christ, save yourself and us.
But the other answering, rebuked him, saying: Do you not fear God, since you are in the same condemnation?
And we justly; for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong.
And he said to Jesus: Remember me, Lord, when thou comest in thy kingdom.
And Jesus said to him: Verily I say to you, to-day you shall be with me in paradise.
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land till the ninth hour.
And the sun was darkened, and the vail of the temple was rent in the midst.
And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and said: Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And when he had said this, he gave up his spirit.
When the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying: Truly, this was a righteous man.
And all the multitudes that had come together to that sight, when they saw what was done, returned, smiting their breasts.
And all his acquaintance, and the women that had followed him from Galilee, stood at a distance looking on these things.
And, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counselor, a good and a just man;
(he had not given his consent to their counsel and deed;) he was of Arimathea, a city of the Jews, and he himself also waited for the kingdom of God:
this man came to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus.
And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulcher that had been hewed in rock, in which no one had yet been laid.
And the day was the preparation, and the sabbath was beginning.
And the women that had come with him from Galilee followed after and saw the sepulcher, and how his body was laid.
And they returned, and prepared spices and ointment; and they rested on the sabbath, according to the commandment.