Thus the L-rd GOD showed me; and, behold, He formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.
And if it had come to pass, that when they had made an end of eating the grass of the land--so I said: O L-rd GOD, forgive, I beseech Thee; how shall Jacob stand? for he is small.
HaShem repented concerning this; 'It shall not be', saith HaShem.
Thus the L-rd GOD showed me; and, behold, the L-rd GOD called to contend by fire; and it devoured the great deep, and would have eaten up the land.
Then said I: O L-rd GOD, cease, I beseech Thee; how shall Jacob stand? for he is small.
HaShem repented concerning this; 'This also shall not be', saith the L-rd GOD.
Thus He showed me; and, behold, the L-rd stood beside a wall made by a plumbline, with a plumbline in His hand.
And HaShem said unto me: 'Amos, what seest thou?' And I said: 'A plumbline.' Then said the L-rd: Behold, I will set a plumbline in the midst of My people Israel; I will not again pardon them any more;
And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.
Then Amaziah the priest of Beth-el sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying: 'Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the house of Israel; the land is not able to bear all his words.
For thus Amos saith: Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.'
Also Amaziah said unto Amos: 'O thou seer, go, flee thee away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there;
but prophesy not again any more at Beth-el, for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a royal house.'
Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah: 'I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son; but I was a herdman, and a dresser of sycamore-trees;
and HaShem took me from following the flock, and HaShem said unto me: Go, prophesy unto My people Israel.
Now therefore hear thou the word of HaShem: Thou sayest: Prophesy not against Israel, and preach not against the house of Isaac;
Therefore thus saith HaShem: Thy wife shall be a harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be divided by line; and thou thyself shalt die in an unclean land, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.'