Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,
to my beloved child Timothy: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I have thanks to God, whom I worship from my forebears in a pure conscience, how unceasingly I have remembrance concerning you in my petitions night and day,
longing to see you, being reminded of your tears, that I may be filled with joy,
taking recollection of the unpretended faith in you, which first dwelt in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice, and I am assured that it is also in you.
For which cause I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands.
For God did not give a spirit of cowardice to us, but of power and of love, and of self-control.
Then do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, His prisoner. But suffer hardship with the gospel, according to the power of God,
He having saved us and having called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to His own purpose and grace given to us in Christ Jesus before eternal times,
but now revealed through the appearance of our Savior, Jesus Christ, making death of no effect, bringing life and incorruptibility to light through the gospel,
for which I was appointed a herald and apostle and a teacher of nations.
For which cause I also suffer these things. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to guard my deposit until that Day.
Hold a pattern of sound words which you heard from me, in faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Guard the good Deposit given through the Holy Spirit indwelling in us.
You know this, that all those in Asia turned away from me, of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
May the Lord give mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me, and he was not ashamed of my chain,
but having come to Rome, he more diligently sought and found me .
May the Lord give to him to find mercy from the Lord in that Day. And what things he served in Ephesus, you know very well.