Moreover HaShem answered Job, and said:
Shall he that reproveth contend with the Almighty? He that argueth with G-d, let him answer it.
Then Job answered HaShem, and said:
Behold, I am of small account; what shall I answer Thee? I lay my hand upon my mouth.
Once have I spoken, but I will not answer again; yea, twice, but I will proceed no further.
Then HaShem answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said:
Gird up thy loins now like a man; I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto Me.
Wilt thou even make void My judgment? Wilt thou condemn Me, that thou mayest be justified?
Or hast thou an arm like G-d? And canst thou thunder with a voice like Him?
Deck thyself now with majesty and excellency, and array thyself with glory and beauty.
Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath; and look upon every one that is proud, and abase him.
Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; and tread down the wicked in their place.
Hide them in the dust together; bind their faces in the hidden place.
Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can save thee.
Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee; he eateth grass as an ox.
Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the stays of his body.
He straineth his tail like a cedar; the sinews of his thighs are knit together.
His bones are as pipes of brass; his gristles are like bars of iron.
He is the beginning of the ways of G-d; He only that made him can make His sword to approach unto him.
Surely the mountains bring him forth food, and all the beasts of the field play there.
He lieth under the lotus-trees, in the covert of the reed, and fens.
The lotus-trees cover him with their shadow; the willows of the brook compass him about.
Behold, if a river overflow, he trembleth not; he is confident, though the Jordan rush forth to his mouth.
Shall any take him by his eyes, or pierce through his nose with a snare?
Canst thou draw out leviathan with a fish-hook? or press down his tongue with a cord?
Canst thou put a ring into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a hook?
Will he make many supplications unto thee? or will he speak soft words unto thee?
Will he make a covenant with thee, that thou shouldest take him for a servant for ever?
Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? Or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens?
Will the bands of fishermen make a banquet of him? Will they part him among the merchants?
Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish-spears?
Lay thy hand upon him; think upon the battle, thou wilt do so no more.