O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; For his kindness endureth for ever!
Let Israel now say, His kindness endureth for ever!
Let the house of Aaron now say, His goodness endureth for ever!
Let all who fear the LORD say, His kindness endureth for ever!
I called upon the LORD in distress; He heard, and set me in a wide place.
The LORD is on my side, I will not fear: What can man do to me?
The LORD is my helper; I shall see my desire upon my enemies.
It is better to trust in the LORD Than to put confidence in man;
It is better to trust in the LORD Than to put confidence in princes.
All the nations beset me around, But in the name of the LORD I destroyed them.
They beset me on every side; But in the name of the LORD I destroyed them.
They beset me around like bees; They were quenched like the fire of thorns, For in the name of the LORD I destroyed them.
Thou didst assail me with violence to bring me down! But the LORD was my support.
The LORD is my glory and my song; For to him I owe my salvation.
The voice of joy and salvation is in the habitations of the righteous: "The right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly;
The right hand of the LORD is exalted; The right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly."
I shall not die, but live, And declare the deeds of the LORD.
The LORD hath sorely chastened me, But he hath not given me over to death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness, That I may go in, and praise the LORD!
This is the gate of the LORD, Through which the righteous enter.
I praise thee that thou hast heard me, And hast been my salvation.
"The stone which the builders rejected Hath become the chief corner-stone.
This is the LORD’S doing; It is marvellous in our eyes!
This is the day which the LORD hath made; Let us rejoice and be glad in it!
Hear, O LORD! and bless us! Hear, O LORD! and send us prosperity!"
"Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD! We bless you from the house of the LORD."
"Jehovah is God, he hath shone upon us: Bind the sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar!"
Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee!
O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; For his kindness endureth for ever!