Cultivate love, and earnestly desire spiritual gifts, but rather that you may prophesy.
For he that speaks in an unknown tongue, speaks not to men, but to God; for no one understands him: but yet in spirit he speaks mysteries.
But he that prophesies speaks to men so as to build them up, to exhort and comfort them.
He that speaks in an unknown tongue, edifies himself; but he that prophesies, edifies the church.
I am willing, indeed, that you should all speak in tongues, but rather that you should prophesy; for greater is he that prophesies than he that speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, in order that the church may receive instruction.
Now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, in what will I profit you, unless I speak to you by revelation, or by knowledge, or by prophecy, or by teaching?
And even lifeless instruments, which produce sound, whether pipe or harp, unless they give a distinction in the notes, how shall that which is piped or harped be known?
For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for battle?
So, also, unless you, with the tongue, utter words that are intelligible, how shall that which is spoken be known? for you will speak into the air.
There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is without meaning.
If, then, I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be to him that speaks a barbarian; and he that speaks will be a barbarian to me.
So, also, do you, since you greatly desire spiritual gifts, seek to excel to the building up of the church.
For which reason, let him that speaks in an unknown tongue pray that he may interpret.
For if I pray in an unknown tongue, the spirit which I have prays, but my understanding is unfruitful.
What, then, is it? I will pray with the spirit which is given to me, and I will pray with my understanding also. I will sing with the spirit that is given to me, and I will sing with my understanding also.
Otherwise, if you bless with the spirit that is given to you, how will he that occupies the place of the unlearned man say Amen, when you give thanks, since he understands not what you say?
For you give thanks well, but the other is not edified.
I thank God that I speak in tongues more than you all.
Yet in the church I would rather speak five words with my understanding, that I may instruct others, than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue.
Brethren, be not children in understanding: yet, in malice, be childlike; but, in understanding, be full-grown men.
In the law it is written: Through men of other tongues and other lips will I speak to this people; and not even thus will they hear me, says the Lord.
Therefore, tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to those who believe not: but prophecy is not for those who believe not, but for those who believe.
If, then, the whole church come together into the same place, and all speak in tongues, and there come in unlearned men, or unbelievers, will they not say that you are mad?
But if all prophesy, and there comes in an unbeliever, or an unlearned man, he is convinced by all, he is examined by all,
and the secrets of his heart are made manifest; and so, falling down on his face, he will worship God, and report that God is really among you.
What, then, is it, brethren? When you come together, each one of you has a psalm, has something to teach, has an unknown tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification.
If any speak in an unknown tongue, let two, or, at most, three, speak at each meeting, and in succession: and let one interpret.
But if there be no interpreter, let him keep silence in the church: but let him speak to himself, and to God.
Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others judge:
and if any thing be revealed to one who is sitting by, let the first be silent.
For you can all prophesy, one by one, that all may learn, and all may be encouraged;
and the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets;
for God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all the assemblies of the saints.
Let your women keep silence in the assemblies; for they ire not permitted to speak; but they must be in subjection, as also says the law.
But if they wish to learn any thing,, let them ask their own husbands at home; for it is a shame for women to speak in an assembly.
Has the word of God come forth from you? or did it come to you only?
If any one has the reputation of being a prophet, or spiritual man, let him acknowledge that the things which I write to you are the commandments of the Lord.
But if any one be ignorant, let him be ignorant.
Wherefore, brethren, earnestly desire to prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues.
Let all things be done with propriety, and in good order.