After these things, I heard the great voice of a vast multitude in heaven, saying: Alleluia; Salvation and glory and honor and power to our God:
for true and righteous are his judgments, for he has judged the great harlot that corrupted the earth with her lewdness; and he has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.
And again they said: Alleluia; and her smoke rises up from age to age.
And the twenty-four elders, and the four living creatures, fell down, and worshiped God that sits upon the throne, saying: Amen, Alleluia.
And a voice came out of the throne, saying: Praise our God all you his servants, and you that fear him, both small and great.
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying: Alleluia; for the Lord God the Almighty reigns.
Let us rejoice and be glad, and give glory to him: for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready.
And to her was given that she should be clothed in fine linen, clean arid white; for the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints.
And he said to me: Write, Blessed are they that are called to the marriage-supper of the Lamb. And he said to me: These are the true words of God.
And I fell at his feet to worship him; and he said to me: See that you do it not; I am your fellow-servant, and of your brethren that have the testimony of Jesus; worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat on him was called faithful and true, and in righteousness does he judge, and make war.
His eyes were like a flame of fire, and on his head were many diadems; and he had a name written which no one knew, but he himself.
And he was clothed with a garment dipped in blood; and his name is called The Word of God.
And the armies that were in heaven followed him on white horses; and they were clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
And out of his mouth goes a sharp, two-edged sword, that with it he may smite the nations; and he shall rule them with a rod of iron; and he treads the wine-press of the fiercest wrath of God, the Almighty.
And he has, on his raiment and on his thigh, a name written, King of kings, and Lord of lords.
And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in mid-heaven. Come, gather yourselves to the great supper of God,
that you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of officers, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of those who sit on them, and the flesh of all, both freemen and servants, both small and great.
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, assembled together to make war with him that sat on the horse, and with his army.
And the beast was taken, and the false prophet that was with him, who did signs in his presence, with which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast, and those who worshiped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire, which burns with brimstone.
And the rest were slain with the sword of him that sat on the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the birds were filled with their flesh.