My brethren, be not many teachers, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation.
For in many things we all offend. If any one offend not in speech, the same is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body also.
For when we put the bits into the horses’ mouths, that they may obey us, we turn about also their whole body.
Behold also the ships, which, though they are so great, and driven by fierce winds, are yet turned about with a very small rudder, whithersoever the steersman chooseth.
So also the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a forest a little fire kindleth!
And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity! The tongue among our members is that which defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the wheel of life, and is itself set on fire by hell.
For every kind of beasts and of birds, of creeping things and things in the sea, is tamed and hath been tamed by mankind;
but the tongue can no man tame; it is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
Therewith bless we the Lord and Father, and therewith curse we men, who have been made after the likeness of God;
out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.
Doth a fountain from the same opening send forth sweet water and bitter?
Can a fig-tree, my brethren, bear olives, or a vine, figs? Neither can salt water yield fresh.
Who is wise and endued with knowledge among you P let him show out of a good course of conduct his works in meekness of wisdom.
But if ye have bitter rivalry and strife in your hearts, do not glory and lie against the truth.
This wisdom is not that which descendeth from above, but earthly, sensual, devilish.
For where there is rivalry and strife, there is confusion and every evil work.
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy.
And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.