Now, in those days, came John the Immerser, proclaiming in the wilderness of Judaea;
saying, Repent ye,—for the kingdom of the heavens hath drawn near.
For, this, is he who was spoken of through Isaiah the prophet, saying, A voice, of one crying aloud! In the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, straight, be making his paths.
But John, himself, had his raiment of camel’s hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins,—while, his food, was locusts and wild honey.
Then, were going forth unto him—Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the country round about the Jordan:
and were being immersed in the Jordan river, by him, openly confessing their sins.
But, seeing, many of the Pharisees and Sadducees, coming unto his immersion, he said to them,—Broods of vipers! who suggested to you, to be fleeing from the coming wrath?
Bring forth, therefore, fruit worthy of repentance;
and think not to be saying within yourselves,—As our father, we have, Abraham; for, I say unto you, that God is able, out of these stones, to raise up children unto Abraham.
Already also, the axe, unto the root of the trees, is being laid,—every tree, therefore, not bringing forth good fruit, is to be hewn down, and, into fire, to be cast.
I, indeed, am immersing you, in water, unto repentance,—but, he who, after me, cometh is, mightier than I, whose, sandals, I am not worthy to bear, he, will immerse you, in Holy Spirit and fire:
Whose fan is in his hand, and he will clear out his threshing-floor,—and will gather his wheat into the granary, but, the chaff, will he burn up with fire unquenchable.
Then, cometh Jesus, from Galilee to the Jordan, unto John,—to be immersed by him.
But, he, would have hindered him, saying—I, have, need, by thee, to be immersed,—and dost, thou, come unto me?
But Jesus answering, said unto him, Suffer [me] even now,—for, thus, it becometh us, to fulfil, all righteousness; then, he suffered him.
And Jesus, having been immersed, straightway, went up from the water,—and lo! the heavens were opened and he saw the Spirit of God, descending like a dove coming upon him;
and lo! a voice out of the heavens,—saying, This, is my Son, the Beloved, in whom I delight.