Better is the poore that walketh in his vprightnes, then he that abuseth his lips, and is a foole.
For without knowledge the minde is not good, and he that hasteth with his feete, sinneth.
The foolishnesse of a man peruerteth his way, and his heart freateth against the Lord.
Riches gather many friends: but the poore is separated from his neighbour.
A false witnes shall not be vnpunished: and he that speaketh lyes, shall not escape.
Many reuerence the face of the prince, and euery man is friend to him that giueth giftes.
All the brethren of the poore doe hate him: howe much more will his friends depart farre from him? though hee be instant with wordes, yet they will not.
He that possesseth vnderstanding, loueth his owne soule, and keepeth wisdome to finde goodnesse.
A false witnes shall not be vnpunished: and he that speaketh lyes, shall perish.
Pleasure is not comely for a foole, much lesse for a seruant to haue rule ouer princes.
The discretion of man deferreth his anger: and his glory is to passe by an offence.
The Kings wrath is like the roaring of a lyon: but his fauour is like the dewe vpon ye grasse.
A foolish sonne is the calamitie of his father, and the contentions of a wife are like a continuall dropping.
House and riches are the inheritance of the fathers: but a prudent wife commeth of the Lord.
Slouthfulnes causeth to fall asleepe, and a deceitfull person shall be affamished.
He that keepeth the commandement, keepeth his owne soule: but hee that despiseth his wayes, shall dye.
He that hath mercy vpon the poore, lendeth vnto the Lord: and the Lord will recompense him that which he hath giuen.
Chasten thy sonne while there is hope, and let not thy soule spare for his murmuring.
A man of much anger shall suffer punishment: and though thou deliuer him, yet wil his anger come againe.
Heare counsell and receiue instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter ende.
Many deuises are in a mans heart: but the counsell of the Lord shall stand.
That that is to be desired of a man, is his goodnes, and a poore man is better then a lyer.
The feare of the Lord leadeth to life: and he that is filled therewith, shall continue, and shall not be visited with euill.
The slouthfull hideth his hand in his bosome, and wil not put it to his mouth againe.
Smite a scorner, and the foolish wil beware: and reproue the prudent, and he wil vnderstand knowledge.
He that destroyeth his father, or chaseth away his mother, is a lewde and shamefull childe.
My sonne, heare no more the instruction, that causeth to erre from ye words of knowledge.
A wicked witnes mocketh at iudgement, and the mouth of ye wicked swalloweth vp iniquitie.
But iudgements are prepared for the scorners, and stripes for the backe of the fooles.