And all the assembly of the sons of Israel set forward out of the desert of Sin, by their removings, at the bidding of Yahweh,—and encamped in Rephidim, and there was no water for the people to drink.
And the people found fault with Moses, and said—Give us water, that we may drink. And Moses said to them, Why should ye find fault with me? Why should ye put Yahweh to the proof?
So the people thirsted, there for water, and the people murmured against Moses,—and said—Wherefore is it that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt, to kill me and my sons and my cattle, with thirst?
And Moses made outcry unto Yahweh saying, What am I to do, with this people? Yet a little, and they will stone me.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses—Pass over before the people, and take with thee some of the elders of Israel,—thy staff also wherewith thou didst smite the river, take thou in thy hand, so shalt thou go thy way.
Behold me! standing before thee, there upon the rock in Horeb, then shalt thou smite the rock and there shall come forth therefrom water, and the people shall drink. And Moses did so, in the sight of the elders of Israel.
So he called the name of the place, Massah, and Meribah,—because of the fault-finding of the sons of Israel, and because of their putting Yahweh to the proof, saying, Is Yahweh in our midst or is he not?
Then came in Amalek,—and fought with Israel, in Rephidim.
And Moses said unto Joshua—Choose for us men, and go forth, fight with Amalek,—to-morrow, am, I, stationing myself upon the top of the hill, with the staff of God in my hand.
So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, to fight with Amalek,—and Moses, Aaron and Hur, went up to the top of the hill.
And it shall be when Moses shall lift on high his hands, then shall Israel prevail, but when he shall let down his hands, then shall Amalek prevail.
But, the hands of Moses, were weary, so they took a stone, and put under him, and he sat thereupon,—and, Aaron and Hur, upheld his hands—on this side, one and on that side, one, and so his hands became steady, until the going in of the sun.
So Joshua overthrew Amalek and his people, with the edge of the sword.
Then said Yahweh unto Moses—Write this as a remembrancer in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua—that I will, wipe out, the remembrance of Amalek, from under the heavens.
And Moses built an altar,—and called the name thereof, Yahweh-nissi.
And he said—Because of a hand against the throne of Yah, Yahweh hath war with Amalek,—from generation to generation!