A Prayer of the afflicted, when he is faint and pours out his complaint before Jehovah. Hear my prayer, O Jehovah, and let my cry come to You.
Do not hide Your face from me in the day of my trouble; bow down Your ear to me in the day I call; answer me quickly.
For my days are finished in smoke, and my bones glow like a firebrand.
My heart is stricken and dried like grass, so that I forget to eat my bread.
Because of the voice of my sighing, my bones cleave to my flesh.
I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I am like an owl of the desert.
I watch and am like a sparrow alone on the housetop.
My enemies curse me all the day long; those who rave against me have sworn against me.
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and have mixed my drink with weeping;
because of Your anger and Your wrath; for You have lifted me and cast me down.
My days are like a shadow stretched out, and I wither like grass.
But You, O Jehovah, shall dwell forever, and Your memory to generation and generation.
You shall arise; have mercy on Zion; for the time to pity her, yea, the appointed time has come.
For Your servants take pleasure in its stones, and pity its dust.
So nations shall fear the name of Jehovah, and all the kings of the earth Your glory.
When Jehovah shall build up Zion, He shall appear in His glory.
He will turn to the prayer of the destitute, and will not despise their prayer.
This shall be written for the generation to come; and people to be created shall praise Jehovah.
For He has looked down from the height of His sanctuary; Jehovah looked from Heaven to the earth;
To hear the groaning of the prisoner, to set free the sons of death;
to declare the name of Jehovah in Zion, and His praise in Jerusalem;
when the peoples and the kingdoms are gathered together to serve Jehovah.
He diminished my strength in the way; He shortened my days.
I said, O my God, do not take me up in the half of my days; Your years are through the generation of generations.
You have laid the foundation of the earth of old; and the heavens are the work of Your hands.
They shall perish, but You shall endure; yea, all of them shall become old like a garment; You shall change them like clothing, and they shall be changed.
But You are He, and Your years shall not be ended.
The sons of Your servants shall dwell; and their seed shall be established before You.