Dead flies make the oil of the perfumer loathsome and corrupt; thus doth a little folly weigh down wisdom and honor.
A wise man’s mind is at his right hand; but a fool’s mind is at his left.
Yea, even when the fool walketh in the way, his understanding faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.
If the anger of a ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place! for gentleness pacifieth great offences.
There is an evil which I have seen under the sun; an error which proceedeth from a ruler.
Folly is set in many high stations, and the noble sit in a low place.
I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants on foot.
He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh down a wall, a serpent shall bite him.
Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith, and he that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby.
If the iron be blunt, and one do not whet the edge, then must he put forth more strength; but an advantage for giving success hath wisdom.
If a serpent bite before he is charmed, then there is no advantage to the charmer.
The words of a wise man’s mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool are his destruction.
The beginning of the words of his mouth is folly, and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.
A fool also multiplieth words, though no man knoweth what shall be; and who can tell him what shall be after him?
The labor of the foolish man wearieth him, because he knoweth not how to go to the city.
Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes feast in the morning!
Happy thou, O land, when thy king is a noble, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
By much slothfulness the building decayeth; and by the slackness of the hands the house leaketh.
A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes merry; but money answereth all things.
Curse not the king; no, not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bed-chamber! for a bird of the air shall carry the voice; and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.