THEN Jesus full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was led by the spirit into the wilderness,
being tempted forty days by the devil; and did eat nothing during those days: and when they were ended, afterwards he was hungry.
And the devil said to him, If thou art the Son of God, command this stone that it become a loaf.
And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, “Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.”
And the devil taking him up into an exceeding high mountain, displayed before him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time:
and the devil said unto him, I will give thee all this authority, and the glory of these; for to me it is delivered, and to whomsoever I will, I give it.
If therefore thou wilt worship before me, all shall be thine.
And Jesus answering him, said, Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written, “Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and to him alone shalt thou pay divine honour.”
And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a wing of the temple, and said to him, If thou art the Son of God, cast thy self down from hence:
for it is written, “He shall give his angels a charge over thee, to guard thee safely;
and that in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.”
And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, “Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.”
And when the devil had closed all the temptation, he departed from him for a season.
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and a report went out into all the region round about concerning him.
And he taught in their synagogues, being universally admired.
And he came to Nazareth, where he was brought up; and he went, according to his usual custom, into the synagogue on the sabbath-day, and rose up to read.
And there was given to him the book of the prophet Isaiah: and unrolling the volume, he found the passage where it is written,
“The spirit of the Lord is upon me, for the work whereunto he hath anointed me; he hath sent me to preach glad tidings to the poor; to heal the contrite in heart; to proclaim liberty to the captives; and restore sight to the blind; to send forth the bruised free from bonds;
to publish the acceptable year of the Lord.”
And rolling up the volume, he gave it to the attendant officer, and sat down. And the eyes of all who were in the synagogue were attentively fixed on him.
And he began to say to them, To day this scripture is fulfilled in your ears.
And all concurred in their testimony to him, and marvelled at the gracious words which proceeded from his mouth. And they said, Is not this the son of Joseph?
And he said unto them, Ye will probably say to me this parable, Physician, heal thyself! the works which we have heard to have been performed by thee at Capernaum, do the like here in thy own country.
But he said, Verily, I say unto you, that no prophet is acceptable in his own country.
Now I tell you of a certainty, that there were many widows in the days of Elias, in Israel, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, so that a grievous famine was upon all the land.
And unto none of them was Elias sent, but unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, to a widow woman.
And many lepers were in Israel in the days of the prophet Elisha, and no one of them was cleansed, but Naaman the Syrian.
And they were all filled with rage in the synagogue, when they heard these observations:
and rising up, dragged him out of the city, and led him to the brow of the hill, on which their city was built, in order to cast him down headlong:
but he passing through the midst of them, went away.
And he came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and was teaching them on the sabbath.
And they were struck with astonishment at his teaching; for his discourse was with authority.
And there was in the synagogue a man, who had a spirit of an unclean devil, and he roared out with a great cry,
saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, Jesus the Nazarean? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Stop thy mouth, and come out of him. And the devil throwing him down into the midst, came out of him, doing him no injury.
And amazement seized on all present, and they spake one to another, saying, What a word is this? for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out.
And the fame of him went forth into all the adjacent region.
Then rising up out of the synagogue, he came into the house of Simon: and Simon’s mother-in-law was seized with a violent fever, and they besought him on her behalf.
And standing over her, he charged the fever to depart; and it left her: and immediately she arose, and waited upon them.
So when the sun was set, all who had any indisposed with various diseases, brought them to him; and laying his hands severally on each of them, he cured them.
And devils also went out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art the Messiah the Son of God. And rebuking them, he suffered them not to speak: for they knew that he was the Messiah.
And as the day was coming on, he went forth and departed into a desert place: and the multitude sought him out, and came to him, and would have detained him that he should not leave them.
But he said unto them, I must preach the glad tidings of the kingdom of heaven in other cities also: for on this service am I sent.
And he continued preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.