Also the habitation shalt thou make, with ten curtains, of twined linen, and blue, and purple, and crimson, with cherubim, the work of a skilful weaver, shalt thou make them.
The length of each curtain twenty-eight cubits, and, the breadth four cubits, of each curtain, one measure, for all the curtains.
The five curtains, shall be joined, one to another, and, the other five curtains, joined, one to another.
And thou shalt make loops of blue on the border of each curtain, at the edge of the set,—and, thus, shalt thou do in the border of the curtain, that is outmost in the second set:
fifty loops, shalt thou make, in the one curtain, and fifty loops, shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain which is in the second set, the loops being opposite, one to another.
And thou shalt make fifty clasps of gold,—so shalt thou join the curtains one to another, with the clasps, and thus shall the habitation be one.
And thou shalt make curtains of goat’s hair, for a tent, over the habitation—eleven curtains, shalt thou make them.
The length of each curtain, thirty cubits, and the breadth, four cubits, of each curtain,—one measure, to the eleven curtains.
And thou shalt join the five curtains by themselves, and the six curtains by themselves, and thou shalt fold back the sixth curtain, in the forefront of the tent.
And thou shalt make fifty loops on the border of the one curtain, that is outmost in the set, and fifty loops on the border of the curtain, of the second set.
And thou shalt make fifty clasps of bronze, and bring the clasps into the loops, so shalt thou join the tent, and it shall be one.
And the overplus that remaineth in the curtains of the tent,—the half curtain that remaineth, shall hang over at the back of the habitation.
And, the cubit on the one side, and the cubit on the other side of that which remaineth, in the length of the curtains of the tent shall be hung over the sides of the habitation on this side and on that side to make a covering.
And thou shalt make a covering, for the tent, of rams’ skins dyed red,—and a covering of badger’s skins, above.
And thou shalt make boards for the habitation,—of acacia wood to stand up:
ten cubits, the length of the board, and a cubit and a half cubit the breadth of each board:
two tenons, to each board, united one to another,—thus, shalt thou make, for all the boards of the habitation,
So then thou shalt make the boards for the habitation, twenty boards, on the south side southwards.
And forty sockets of silver, shalt thou make under the twenty boards,—two sockets under the one board for its two tenons, and two sockets, under the next board, for its two tenons.
And on the second side of the habitation, towards the north, twenty boards;
and their forty sockets of silver,—two sockets, under the one board, and, two sockets, under the next board.
And for the hinderpart of the habitation, westward, shalt thou make six boards.
And, two boards, shalt thou make, for the corners of the habitation,—in the hinderpart:
that they may be double beneath, and at the same time, they shall be entire on the top thereof, into each ring,—thus, shall it be for them both, for the two corners, shall they be.
So shall they be eight boards, and, their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets,—two sockets, under the one board, and, two sockets, under the next board.
And thou shalt make bars, of acacia wood,—five, for the boards of the one side of the habitation,
and five bars, for the boards of the other side of the habitation, and five bars, for the boards of the side of the habitation, at the hinderpart westward;
with the middle bar in the midst of the boards,—running along from end to end.
And the boards, shalt thou overlay with gold, and their rings, shalt thou make of gold, as receptacles for the bars,—and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold.
So shalt thou rear up the habitation, according to the fashion thereof, which thou wast caused to see in the mount.
And thou shalt make a veil, of blue and purple, and crimson and fine-twined linen,—of the work of a skilful weaver, shall it be made, with cherubim;
and thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold, with their hooks of gold,—upon four sockets of silver,
And thou shalt hang up the veil under the clasps,—and shalt bring in thither, within the veil the ark of the testimony; and the veil shall make a division for you between the holy [place] and the most holy.
And thou shalt place the propitiatory, upon the ark of the testimony,—in the most holy [place] .
And thou shalt set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand over against the table, on the side of the habitation, southward,—and the table, shalt thou place on the north side.
And thou shalt make a screen for the opening of the tent, of blue, and purple and crimson, and fine-twined linen,—the work of an embroiderer.
And thou shalt make for the screen five pillars of acacia, and shalt overlay them with gold, and their hooks [shall be] of gold,—and thou shalt cast for them five sockets of bronze.