My son, do not forget my law, but let thy heart keep my commandments.
For length of days, and years of life, and peace, they will add to thee.
Let not kindness and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck, write them upon the tablet of thy heart,
so thou shall find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
Trust in Jehovah with all thy heart, and lean not upon thine own understanding.
In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will direct thy paths.
Be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear Jehovah, and depart from evil.
It will be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.
Honor Jehovah with thy substance, and with the first-fruits of all thine increase,
so thy barns shall be filled with plenty, and thy vats shall overflow with new wine.
My son, despise not the chastening of Jehovah, nor be weary of his reproof.
For whom Jehovah loves he reproves, and he whips every son whom he receives.
Happy is the man who finds wisdom, and the man who gets understanding.
For the gain of it is better than the gain of silver, and the profit of it than fine gold.
She is more precious than rubies, and none of the things thou can desire are to be compared to her.
Length of days is in her right hand, in her left hand are riches and honor.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
She is a tree of life to those who lay hold upon her. And happy is everyone who retains her.
Jehovah by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding he established the heavens.
By his knowledge the depths were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew.
My son, let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion,
so they shall be life to thy soul, and grace to thy neck.
Then thou shall walk in thy way securely, and thy foot shall not stumble.
When thou lie down, thou shall not be afraid. Yea, thou shall lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.
Be not afraid of sudden fear, nor of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes.
For Jehovah will be thy confidence, and will keep thy foot from being taken.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thy hand to do it.
Do not say to thy neighbor, Go, and come again, and tomorrow I will give, when thou have it by thee.
Do not devise evil against thy neighbor, since he dwells securely by thee.
Do not strive with a man without cause, if he has done thee no harm.
Do not envy thou the man of violence, and choose none of his ways.
For the perverse man is an abomination to Jehovah, but his friendship is with the upright.
The curse of Jehovah is in the house of a wicked man, but he blesses the habitation of the righteous.
Surely the Lord is opposed to the arrogant, but he gives grace to the lowly.
The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the promotion of fools.