FOR we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle should be taken down, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed with our mansion which is from heaven;
that so invested, we may not be found naked.
For we which are in this tabernacle, groan, being burdened; wherein we desire not to be unclothed, but clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up of life.
But he that hath wrought us for this very thing is God, who also hath given us the earnest of the spirit.
Therefore we have always confidence, and know that whilst we are indwelling in the body, we are absent from the Lord:
(for we walk by faith, not by sight.)
We are confident indeed, and with pleasure expect to go out from the body, and to dwell within with the Lord:
wherefore also our ambition is, that whether dwelling in the body, or out of the body, we may be acceptable to him.
For we must all appear before the judgment-seat of Christ, that each may receive the things done in the body according to what he hath done, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.
Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we have been made manifest to God, and I hope also have been made manifest in your consciences.
For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you occasion of glorying on our behalf, that ye may have an answer for those who glory in countenance, and not in heart.
For if we are transported out of ourselves, it is for God; or if we are sober-minded, it is for your sake.
For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we judge thus, that if one died for all, then were all dead:
and he died for all, that they who live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him that died for them, and rose again.
Wherefore from the present moment know we no man after the flesh: yea though we have also known Christ after the flesh, yet so henceforth know we him no more.
Wherefore if any person be in Christ, he is a new creation: the old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.
But all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
namely, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing to them their offences: and hath committed to us the word of reconciliation.
Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God exhorted you by us; we entreat you for Christ’s sake, be ye reconciled to God.
For he hath made him, who knew no sin, to be a sin offering for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him.