And I stood on the sand of the sea, and saw a beast coming up out of the sea, and he had seven heads and ten horns, and on his horns ten diadems, and on his heads names impiously irreverent.
And the beast that I saw was like a leopard, and his feet were as those of a bear, and his mouth was as the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power, and his throne, and great authority.
And I saw one of his heads as if it had been wounded even to death; and his deadly wound was healed; and all the earth wondered after the beast.
And they worshiped the dragon, because he gave authority to the beast: and they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? and, Who is able to make war with him?
And there was given him a mouth that spoke great things and impious words; and authority was given to him to continue forty-two months.
And he opened his mouth in impious speeches against God, to utter impious words against his name, and his tabernacle, and against those who dwell in heaven.
And it was given him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and authority was given him over every tribe and people and tongue and nation.
And all that dwell upon the earth will worship him, those whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain from the foundation of the world.
If any one has an ear, let him hear.
If any one leads into captivity, he shall go into captivity. If any kills with the sword, he must be killed with the sword. Here is the patience and faithfulness of the saints.
And I saw another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke as a dragon.
And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence; and he causes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.
And he does great signs, and even causes fire to descend from heaven upon the earth in the sight of men.
And he deceives those who dwell on the earth, by means of the signs which he is allowed to do in the presence of the beast, saying to those who dwell on the earth, that they should make an image for the beast which had the wound by the sword, and did live.
And it was granted him to give spirit to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast, to be killed.
And he causes all, small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark on their right hand, or on their forehead,
and that no one should be able to buy or sell, but he that had the mark, the name of the beast, or the number of his name.
Here is wisdom. Let him that has understanding, count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man, and his number is six hundred and sixty-six.