And you, son of man, take a tile to yourself, and lay it before you, and portray on it the city Jerusalem.
And lay siege against it, and build a fort against it, and cast a mound against it. Also set the camp against it, and set battering rams against it all around.
And take an iron griddle to yourself, and set it for a wall of iron between you and the city. And set your face against it, and it shall be under attack. And you shall set a battle against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.
Also lie on your left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel on it; according to the number of days that you shall lie on it, you shall bear their iniquity.
For I have laid on you the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days. So you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
And when you have fulfilled them, lie again on your right side, and you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days; a day for a year; a day for a year, I have set for you.
And you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, and your arm shall be uncovered, and you shall prophesy against it.
And, behold, I will lay bands on you, and you shall not turn yourself from one side to another until you have ended the days of your siege.
Take also to yourself wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and make bread of them for yourself. According to the number of the days that you shall lie on your side, three hundred and ninety days, you shall eat of it.
And your food which you shall eat shall be by weight twenty shekels a day; from time to time you shall eat it.
You shall also drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin. From time to time you shall drink.
And you shall eat it as barley cakes, and you shall bake it with dung of the excrement of man, in their sight.
And the LORD said, Even so shall the sons of Israel eat their defiled bread among the nations, where I will drive them.
Then I said, Ah Lord God! Behold, my soul has not been defiled. For from my youth up, even till now, I have not eaten of that which dies of itself, or is torn in pieces; neither did there come any unclean flesh into my mouth.
Then He said to me, Lo, I have given you cow's dung for man's dung, and you shall prepare your bread with it.
And He said to me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem. And they shall eat bread by weight, and with care. And they shall drink water by measure, and in silence,
so that they may lack bread and water, and be stricken dumb with one another, and waste away in their iniquity.