Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the appointment of God our Savior, and the Lord Jesus Christ our hope,
to Timothy, my true son in the faith; grace, mercy, peace from God our Father, and Christ Jesus our Lord.
As, on going into Macedonia, I besought you to remain in Ephesus, that you might charge some that they teach no other thing,
nor give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which produce disputes rather than godly edification, which is in faith;
(Now the end of the commandment is love out of a pure heart, and out of a good conscience, and out of faith unfeigned:
which things some not having aimed at, have turned aside to idle disputation,
desiring to be teachers of law, though understanding neither what they say nor of what they boldly affirm.
But we know that the law is good, if any one use it lawfully;
knowing this, that law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for the unholy and for scorners, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for man-slayers,
for lewd persons, for sodomites, for men-stealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and for whatever other thing is opposed to sound teaching,
according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which has been intrusted to me.
And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has given me power, because he counted me faithful, and put me into the ministry;
me, I say, who before was a reviler and a persecutor and an overbearing man. But I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief:
and the grace of our Lord was very abundant with faith, and love which is in Christ Jesus.
Assuredly true and worthy of all acceptation is this saying: that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
But for this reason I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might show all long-suffering, for an example to those who might afterward believe on him in order to life eternal.
Now to the King of the ages, the incorruptible, invisible, only wise God, be honor and glory from age to age. Amen.)
This charge I commit to you, son Timothy, in accordance with the preceding prophecies concerning you, that by them you may war the good warfare,
holding faith and a good conscience, which some having thrust from them, as it respects faith have made shipwreck; of whom are Hymenæus and Alexander,
whom I have delivered to Satan, that they may learn not to revile.