But a certain man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a property,
and kept back from the price, his wife also aware of it , and bringing a certain part, he put it at the feet of the apostles.
But Peter said, Ananias, why did Satan fill your heart for you to lie to the Holy Spirit and to secretly keep back from the price of the land?
Remaining, did it not remain yours? And being sold, was it not in your authority? Why is it that this action was put into your heart? You did not lie to men, but to God!
And hearing these words, Ananias fell down and expired. And great fear came on all those hearing these things.
And rising up the younger ones wrapped him, and carrying out, they buried him .
And about three hours afterwards, his wife also entered, not knowing that happening.
And Peter answered her, Tell me if you gave over the land for so much? And she said, Yes, for so much.
And Peter said to her, Why was it that it was agreed with you to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those burying your husband at the door! Yea, they will carry you out.
And she immediately fell at his feet and expired. And entering, the younger ones found her dead, and carrying her out, they buried her beside her husband.
And great fear came on all the church and on all those hearing these things.
And many miracles and wonders among the people took place through the hands of the apostles. And they were all with one passion in Solomon's Porch.
And of the rest, no one dared to be joined to them, but the people greatly magnified them.
And more believing ones were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and of women,
so as to carry out the sick in the streets, and to place them on cots and mattresses, that at the coming of Peter, if even his shadow might overshadow some of them.
And also the multitude came together from the cities around Jerusalem, bringing sick ones and those being tormented by unclean spirits, who were all healed.
And rising up, the high priest and all those with him, which is the sect of the Sadducees, were filled with zeal,
and laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in public custody.
But an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison during the night, and leading them out, he said,
Go! And standing in the temple, speak to the people all the words of this Life.
And hearing, they went into the temple about dawn and taught. But having come near, the high priest and those with him called together the sanhedrin and all the elderhood of the sons of Israel. And they sent to the jail to have them brought.
But having come near, the officers did not find them in the prison. And returning, they reported,
saying, Indeed we found the jail having been shut with all security, and the guards outside standing before the doors. But opening it, we found no one inside.
And when they heard these words, both the priest and the temple commander and the chief priests were in doubt concerning them, what this might be.
But having come, one reported to them, saying, Behold, the men whom you put in the prison are in the temple, standing and teaching the people.
Then the commander going with the officers, they brought them, not with force, for they feared the people, that they might not be stoned.
And bringing them, they stood in the sanhedrin. And the high priest asked them,
saying, Did we not command you by a command that you not teach in this name? And, behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine and intend to bring on us the blood of this man.
But answering Peter and the apostles said, It is right to obey God rather than man.
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you seized, hanging Him on a tree.
This One God has exalted as a Ruler and Savior to His right hand , to give to Israel repentance and remission of sins.
And we are His witnesses of these things, and also the Holy Spirit, whom God gave to those obeying Him.
But those hearing were cut, and they took counsel to do away with them.
But one standing up in the sanhedrin, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the Law honored by all the people, commanded the apostles to be put outside a little while.
And he said to them, Men, Israelites, take heed to yourselves what you intend to do on these men.
For before these days Theudas rose up, claiming himself to be somebody, to whom was joined a number of men, about four hundred, who was done away, and all, as many as obeyed him, were dispersed and came to nothing.
After this, Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the Registration. And he drew considerable people after him. Yet that one perished, and all were scattered, as many as obeyed him.
And now I say to you, draw away from these men and permit them; because if this counsel is of men, or this work, it will be destroyed.
But if it is from God, you will not be able to destroy it, lest you be found even fighters against God.
And they obeyed him. And having called the apostles, beating them, they commanded not to speak on the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Then they indeed departed from the presence of the sanhedrin, rejoicing that they were deemed worthy to be dishonored on behalf of His name.
And every day they did not cease teaching and preaching the gospel of Jesus the Christ in the temple, and house to house.