But I say, Over so long a time the heir is an infant, he does not differ from a slave, though being lord of all;
but he is under guardians and housemasters until the term appointed before by the father.
Even so we, when we were infants, were in bondage under the elements of the world.
But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, coming into being out of a woman, having come under Law,
that He might redeem those under Law, so that we might receive the adoption of sons.
And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.
So that you are no longer a slave, but a son; and if a son, also an heir of God through Christ.
But then, indeed, not knowing God, you served as slaves to those not by nature being gods.
But now, knowing God, but rather are known by God, how do you turn again to the weak and beggarly elements to which you desire to slave anew?
You observe days and months and times and years.
I fear for you, lest somehow I have labored among you in vain.
Brothers, I beseech you, be as I am; for I am as you. You have not injured me at all.
But you know that through infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel to you before,
and you did not despise my temptation in my flesh, nor did you spurn it. But you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.
What then was your blessedness? For I bear you record that, if you were able, plucking out your eyes, you would have given them to me.
So then did I become your enemy speaking to you the truth?
They are zealous for you, but not well. But they only desire to shut you out, that you be zealous to them.
But it is good to be zealous always in a good thing, and not only in my being present with you.
My children, for whom I again travail until Christ should be formed in you,
even now I desired to be present with you, and to change my voice; for I am in doubt as to you.
Tell me, those desiring to be under Law, do you not hear the Law?
For it is written: Abraham had two sons, the one out of the slave-woman, and one out of the free woman.
But, indeed, he out of the slave-woman has been born according to flesh, and he out of the free woman through the promise;
which things are being allegorized; for these are the two covenants, one indeed from Mount Sinai bringing forth to slavery, which is Hagar.
For Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answers to Jerusalem which now is, and is in slavery with her children.
But the Jerusalem from above is free, who is the mother of us all.
For it is written, "Rejoice, barren one not bearing; break forth and shout, you not travailing; for more are the children of the desolate than she having the husband."
But brothers, we, like Isaac, are children of promise.
But then even as he born according to flesh persecuted him born according to the Spirit, so also now.
But what does the Scripture say? "Cast out the slave-woman and her son; for in no way shall the son of the slave-woman inherit with the son of the free woman."
Then, brothers, we are not children of a slave-woman, but of the free woman.