Bvt Iob answered, and sayd,
Heare diligently my wordes, and this shalbe in stead of your consolations.
Suffer mee, that I may speake, and when I haue spoken, mocke on.
Doe I direct my talke to man? If it were so, how should not my spirit be troubled?
Marke mee, and be abashed, and lay your hand vpon your mouth.
Euen when I remember, I am afrayde, and feare taketh hold on my flesh.
Wherefore do the wicked liue, and waxe olde, and grow in wealth?
Their seede is established in their sight with them, and their generation before their eyes.
Their houses are peaceable without feare, and the rod of God is not vpon them.
Their bullocke gendreth, and fayleth not: their cow calueth, and casteth not her calfe.
They send forth their children like sheepe, and their sonnes dance.
They take the tabret and harpe, and reioyce in the sound of the organs.
They spend their dayes in wealth, and suddenly they go downe to the graue.
They say also vnto God, Depart from vs: for we desire not the knowledge of thy wayes.
Who is the Almightie, that we should serue him? and what profit should we haue, if we should pray vnto him?
Lo, their wealth is not in their hand: therfore let the counsell of the wicked bee farre from me.
How oft shall the candle of the wicked be put out? and their destruction come vpon them? he wil deuide their liues in his wrath.
They shall be as stubble before the winde, and as chaffe that the storme carieth away.
God wil lay vp the sorowe of the father for his children: when he rewardeth him, hee shall knowe it.
His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drinke of the wrath of the Almightie.
For what pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the nomber of his moneths is cut off?
Shall any teache God knowledge, who iudgeth the highest things?
One dyeth in his full strength, being in all ease and prosperitie.
His breasts are full of milke, and his bones runne full of marowe.
And another dieth in the bitternes of his soule, and neuer eateth with pleasure.
They shall sleepe both in the dust, and the wormes shall couer them.
Behold, I know your thoughts, and the enterprises, wherewith ye do me wrong.
For ye say, Where is the princes house? and where is the tabernacle of the wickeds dwelling?
May ye not aske the that go by the way? and ye can not deny their signes.
But the wicked is kept vnto the day of destruction, and they shall be brought forth to the day of wrath.
Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall reward him for that he hath done?
Yet shall he be brought to the graue, and remaine in the heape.
The slimie valley shalbe sweete vnto him, and euery man shall draw after him, as before him there were innumerable.
How then comfort ye me in vaine, seeing in your answeres there remaine but lyes?