And it came to pass, after the plague, that Yahweh spake unto Moses, and unto Eleazar son of Aaron the priest, saying:
Reckon ye up the sum of all the assembly of the sons of Israel from twenty years old and upwards, by their ancestral houses,—every one able to go forth to war in Israel.
So then Moses and Eleazar the priest spake with them, in the waste plains of Moab,—by the Jordan near Jericho saying:
From twenty years old and upwards, As Yahweh commanded Moses, and the sons of Israel, who had come forth out of the land of Egypt.
Reuben, the firstborn of Israel,—the sons of Reuben, To Hanoch, pertained the family of the Hanochites; To Pallu, the family of the Palluites;
To Hezron, the family of the Hezronites,—To Carmi, the family of the Carmites.
These, are the families of the Reubenites,—and they who were numbered of them were found to be—forty-three thousand, and seven hundred, and thirty.
Now, the sons of Pallu, were Eliab;
and the sons of Eliab, Nemuel, and Dathan and Abiram,—The same, Dathan and Abiram, notable men of the assembly, who contended against Moses and against Aaron in the assembly of Korah, when they contended against Yahweh;
and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up—with Korah also, when the assembly died,—when the fire consumed two hundred and fifty men, and they became a warning;
But, the sons of Korah, died not.
The sons of Simeon, by their families, To Nemuel, pertained the family of the Nemuelites, To Jamin, the family of the Jaminites,—To Jachin, the family of the Jachinites:
To Zerah, the family of the Zerahites,—To Shaul, the family of the Shaulites:
These, are the families of the Simeonites,—two and twenty thousand and two hundred.
The sons of Gad, by their families, To Zephon, pertained the family of the Zephonites; To Haggi, the family of the Haggites,—To Shuni, the family of the Shunites;
To Ozni, the family of the Oznites,—To Eri, the family of the Erites;
To Arod, the family of the Arodites,—To Arelites, the family of the Arelites:
These, are the families of the sons of Gad, as to them who were numbered of them,—forty thousand and five hundred.
The sons of Judah, Er and Onan,—but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
And so, as to the sons of Judah, by their families, it was found that—To Shelah, pertained the family of the Shelanites, To Perez, the family of the Perezites,—To Zerah, the family of the Zerahites;
And, as to the sons of Perez, it was found that—To Hezron, pertained the family of the Hezronites,—To Hamul, the family of the Hamulites:
These, are the families of Judah, as to them who were numbered of them,—seventy-six thousand, and five hundred,
The sons of Issachar, by their families, Unto Tola, pertained the family of the Tolaites,—To Puvah, the family of the Puvites;
To Jashub, the family of the Jashubites,—To Shimron, the family of the Shimronites:
These, are the families of Issachar. as to them who were numbered of them,—sixty-four thousand, and three hundred.
The sons of Zebulun, by their families, To Sered, pertained the family of the Seredites, To Elon, the family of the Elonites,—To Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites:
These are the families of the Zebulunites as to them who were numbered of them,—sixty thousand, and five hundred.
The sons of Joseph by their families,—Manasseh, and Ephraim.
The sons of Manasseh, To Machir, pertained the family of the Machirites, and, Machir, begat Gilead,—To Gilead, pertained the family of the Gileadites.
These are the sons of Gilead: Iezer, the family of the Iezerites,—To Helek, the family of the Helekites;
And Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; And, Shechem, the family of the Shechemites;
And Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; And, Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
Now Zelophehad, son of Hepher, had no sons, but only, daughters,—and, the names of the daughters of Zelophehad, were Mahlah and Noah, Hoglah Milcah, and Tirzah.
These, are the families of Manasseh,—and, they who were numbered of them,—fifty-two thousand, and seven hundred.
These are the sons of Ephraim by their families, To Shuthelah, pertained the family of the Shuthelahites, To Becher, the family of the Becherites,—To Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
And, these, are the sons of Shuthelah, To Eran, pertained the family of the Eranites.
These, are the families of the sons of Ephraim, as to them who were numbered of them,—thirty-two thousand, and five hundred, These, are the sons of Joseph by their families.
The sons of Benjamin by their families, To Bela, pertained the family of the Belaites, To Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites,—To Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites;
To Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites,—To Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.
And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman,—[To Ard, pertained] the family of the Ardites, To Naaman, the family of the Naamites.
These, are the sons of Benjamin by their families,—and they who were numbered of them,—were forty-five thousand and six hundred.
These, are the sons of Dan, by their families: To Shuham, pertained the family of the Shuhamites,—These, are the families of Dan by their families:
All the families of the Shuhamites, as to them who were numbered of them, were, sixty-four thousand, and four hundred.
The sons of Asher, by their families: To Imnah, pertained the family of the Imnites, To Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites,—To Beriah, the family of the Beriites;
To the sons of Beriah, To Heber, pertained the family of the Heberites, To Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites;
And, the name of the daughter of Asher, was Serah.
These, are the families of the sons of Asher as to them who were numbered of them,—fifty-three thousand and four hundred.
The sons of Naphtali, by their families, To Jahzeel, pertained the family of the Jahzeelites; To Guni, the family of the Gunites:
To Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; To Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.
These are the families of Naphtali, by their families,—and they who were numbered of them, were forty-five thousand and four hundred.
These, are they who were numbered of the sons of Israel, six hundred and one thousand,—seven hundred and thirty,
Then spake Yahweh unto Moses, saying:
Unto these, shall be apportioned the land as an inheritance by the number of names.
For the large one, thou shalt make large his inheritance, and for the small one, thou shalt make small his inheritance,—unto each one, in proportion to them who were numbered of him, shall be given his inheritance.
Nevertheless by lot, shall the land be apportioned,—by the names of the tribes of their fathers, shall they inherit.
At the bidding of the lot, shall be apportioned his inheritance,—between large and small.
And these, are they who were numbered of the Levites by their families, To Gershon, pertained the family of the Gershonites, To Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; To Merari, the family of the Merarites.
These, are the families of Levi—The family of the Libnites, The family of the Hebronites, The family of the Mahlites, The family of the Mushites, The family of the Korahites,—And, Kohath, begat Amram;
and the name of the wife of Amram, was Jochebed daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt,—and she bare to Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister:
And, there were born to Aaron, Nadab and Abihu,—Eleazar and Ithamar;
But Nadab and Abihu died,—when they brought near strange fire before Yahweh:
And they who were numbered of them were found to be—twenty-three thousand, all the males from one month old and upwards—for they had not numbered themselves in the midst of the sons of Israel, because there was given unto them no inheritance, in the midst of the sons of Israel.
These, are they who were numbered by Moses, and Eleazar, the priest,—when they numbered the sons of Israel, in the waste plains of Moab, by Jordan, near Jericho.
And among these, was there not found a man of them who had been numbered by Moses, and Aaron the priest,—when they numbered the sons of Israel in the desert of Sinai.
For Yahweh had said of them, They shall surely die, in the desert. And there was not left of them a man, save only, Caleb son of Jephunneh, and Joshua son of Nun.