This, already, beloved, is the second letter I am writing unto you; and, in these letters, I am stirring up—by way of calling to remembrance—your uncorrupted mind,
To remember the fore-spoken declarations made by the holy prophets, and the commandment of the Lord and Saviour, by your apostles.
Of this, first, taking note—that there will come, in the last of the days, with scoffing, scoffers, after their own covetings, going on,
and saying—Where is the promise of his presence? For, since the fathers fell asleep, all things, thus remain, from the beginning of creation.
For this they, willfully, forget—that there were, heavens, from of old, and, an earth, on account of water and by means of water, compacted, by God’s word,—
By which means, the world that then was, with water being flooded, perished;
While, the heavens and the earth that now are, by the same word, have been stored with fire, being kept unto the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly men.
But, this one thing, forget not, beloved,—that, one day, with the Lord, is as a thousand years, and, a thousand years, as one day.
The Lord is, not slack, concerning his promise, as some count, slackness; but is long-suffering with regard to you, not being minded that any should perish, but that, all, unto repentance, should come.
Howbeit the day of the Lord will be here, as a thief,—in which, the heavens, with a rushing noise, will pass away, while, elements, becoming intensely hot, will be dissolved, and, earth, and the works therein, will be discovered.
Seeing that all these things are thus to be dissolved, what manner of persons, ought [ye] all the while to be, in holy ways of behaviour and acts of godliness,—
Expecting and hastening the presence of the day of God, by reason of which, heavens, being on fire, will be dissolved, and, elements, becoming intensely hot, are to be melted;
But, new heavens, and a new earth, according to his promise, are we expecting, wherein, righteousness, is to dwell.
Wherefore, beloved, these things, expecting—give diligence, unspotted and unblemished, by him, to be found, in peace;
And account, our Lord’s long suffering, [to be] salvation:—even as, our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you;
As also, in all letters, speaking in them concerning these things,—in which [letters] are some things, hard to be understood, which, the uninstructed and unstable, wrest,—as also the other scriptures,—unto their own destruction.
Ye, therefore, beloved, taking note beforehand, be on your guard, lest, with the error of the impious being led away, ye fall from your own steadfastness;
But be growing in the favour and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ:—unto whom be the glory, both now and unto a day that abideth.