And Moses spake unto the heads of the tribes of the sons of Israel saying: This, is the thing which Yahweh hath commanded-
When, a man, shall vow a vow unto Yahweh, or swear an oath to bind a bond upon his soul, he shall not break his word,—according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth, shall he do.
And, when, a woman, shall vow a vow unto Yahweh, and bind a bond, in the house of her father, in her youth;
and her father shall hear her vow or her bond which she bindeth upon her soul, and her father shall hold his peace at her, then shall all her vows stand, and every bond which she hath bound upon her soul shall stand.
But, if her father forbade her, in the day when he heard, none of her vows or her bonds which she hath bound upon her soul, shall stand,—and, Yahweh, will pardon her, because her father forbade her.
But, if she, belonged to a husband, when her vows were taken upon her,—or a rash utterance fell from her lips, wherewith she put a bond upon her soul;
and her husband heard it, and on the day that he heard, he held his peace at her, then shall her vows stand and her bonds which she hath bound upon her soul, shall stand,
But if, on the day her husband heard, he forbade her, then shall he have made of none effect her vow that is upon her, or the rash utterance of her lips, wherewith she put a bond upon her soul,—and, Yahweh, will pardon her.
But as for the vow of a widow, or of a woman divorced, whatsoever she hath bound on her soul, shall stand against her.
But, if in the house of her husband, she vowed, or bound a bond upon her soul. with an oath;
and her husband heard, and held his peace at her, did not forbid her, then shall all her vows stand, and every bond which she hath bound upon her soul, shall stand.
But if her husband, did make, them, of none effect, on the day he heard, nothing which came forth out of her lips—of her vows, or of the bond of her soul, shall stand,—her husband, made it of none effect, and Yahweh, will pardon her:
As for any vow, or any oath of binding, to humble one’s soul, her husband, may make it stand, or, her husband, may make it of none effect.
But if her husband do hold his peace, at her, from day to day, then shall he cause all her vows to stand, or all her bonds which are upon her,—cause them to stand, because he held his peace at her, on the day when he heard.
And, if he, do make them of none effect, after that he hath heard them, then shall he bear her iniquity.
These are the statutes which Yahweh commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, between a father and his daughter, in her youth in the house of her father.