Whoso loveth knowledge loveth correction; but he that is brutish hateth reproof.
A good man shall obtain favour of HaShem; but a man of wicked devices will He condemn.
A man shall not be established by wickedness; but the root of the righteous shall never be moved.
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband; but she that doeth shamefully is as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are right; but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood; but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown, and are not; but the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be commended according to his intelligence; but he that is of a distorted understanding shall be despised.
Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, than he that playeth the man of rank, and lacketh bread.
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast; but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
He that tilleth his ground shall have plenty of bread; but he that followeth after vain things is void of understanding.
The wicked desireth the prey of evil men; but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.
In the transgression of the lips is a snare to the evil man; but the righteous cometh out of trouble.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, and the doings of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.
The way of a fool is straight in his own eyes; but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel.
A fool's vexation is presently known; but a prudent man concealeth shame.
He that breatheth forth truth uttereth righteousness; but a false witness deceit.
There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword; but the tongue of the wise is health.
The lip of truth shall be established for ever; but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil; but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
There shall no mischief befall the righteous; but the wicked are filled with evil.
Lying lips are an abomination to HaShem; but they that deal truly are His delight.
A prudent man concealeth knowledge; but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule; but the slothful shall be under tribute.
Care in the heart of a man boweth it down; but a good word maketh it glad.
The righteous is guided by his friend; but the way of the wicked leadeth them astray.
The slothful man shall not hunt his prey; but the precious substance of men is to be diligent.
In the way of righteousness is life, and in the pathway thereof there is no death.