And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Send thou men, that they may spy out the land of Canaan, which I give to the sons of Israel. From every tribe of their fathers ye shall send a man, each one a ruler among them.
And Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran according to the commandment of Jehovah. All of them men who were heads of the sons of Israel.
And these were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur;
of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;
of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh;
of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph;
of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun;
of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;
of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi;
of the tribe of Joseph, namely, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi;
of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli;
of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;
of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;
of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
These are the names of the men that Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun Joshua.
And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said to them, Get you up this way by the South, and go up into the hill-country.
And see the land, what it is, and the people who dwell in it, whether they are strong or weak, whether they are few or many,
and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it is good or bad, and what cities they are that they dwell in, whether in camps, or in strongholds,
and what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether there is wood in it, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first-ripe grapes.
So they went up, and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, to the entrance of Hamath.
And they went up by the South, and came to Hebron. And Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the sons of Anak, were there. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)
And they came to the valley of Eshcol, and cut down from there a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bore it upon a staff between two, also of the pomegranates, and of the figs.
That place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the sons of Israel cut down from there.
And they returned from spying out the land at the end of forty days.
And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh, and brought back word to them, and to all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land.
And they told him, and said, We came to the land where thou sent us. And surely it flows with milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it.
However the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified, very great, and moreover we saw the sons of Anak there.
Amalek dwells in the land of the South. And the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, dwell in the hill-country. And the Canaanite dwells by the sea, and along by the side of the Jordan.
And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it, for we are well able to overcome it.
But the men who went up with him said, We are not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we.
And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had spied out to the sons of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to spy it out, is a land that eats up the inhabitants of it. And all the people that we saw in it are men of great stature.
And we saw there the giants, the sons of Anak, who come of the giants. And we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.