These are the journeys of the sons of Israel, who went forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.
And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the command of the LORD. And these are their journeys according to their starting-places.
And they pulled up from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month. On the next day after the Passover the sons of Israel went out with a high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.
For the Egyptians buried all their first-born whom the LORD had stricken among them. The LORD also executed judgments upon their gods.
And the sons of Israel pulled up from Rameses and pitched in Succoth.
And they pulled up from Succoth and pitched in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.
And they pulled up from Etham and turned again to Pihahiroth which is in front of Baal-zephon. And they pitched in front of Migdol.
And they pulled up from before Pihahiroth and passed through the middle of the Sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.
And they pulled up from Marah and came to Elim. And in Elim were twelve fountains of water, and seventy palm trees. And they pitched there.
And they pulled up from Elim and pitched by the Red Sea.
And they pulled up from the Red Sea and pitched in the wilderness of Sin.
And they pulled up from of the wilderness of Sin and pitched in Dophkah.
And they pulled up from Dophkah and pitched in Alush.
And they pulled up from Alush and pitched at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink.
And they pulled up from Rephidim and pitched in the wilderness of Sinai.
And they pulled up from the wilderness of Sinai and pitched at Kibroth-hattaavah.
And they pulled up from Kibroth-hattaavah and pitched at Hazeroth.
And they pulled up from Hazeroth and pitched in Rithmah.
And they pulled up from Rithmah and pitched at Rimmon-parez.
And they pulled up from Rimmon-parez and pitched in Libnah.
And they pulled up from Libnah and pitched at Rissah.
And they pulled up stakes from Rissah and pitched in the Meeting Place.
And they pulled up from Kehelathah and pitched in Mount Shapher.
And they pulled up from Mount Shapher and pitched in Haradah.
And they pulled up from Haradah and pitched in Makheloth
And they pulled up from Makheloth and pitched at Tahath.
And they pulled up from Tahath and pitched at Tarah.
And they pulled up from Tarah and pitched in Mithcah.
And they pulled up from Mithcah and pitched in Hashmonah.
And they pulled up from Hashmonah and pitched at Moseroth.
And they pulled up from Moseroth and pitched in Bene-jaakan.
And they pulled up from Bene-jaakan and pitched at the Hole of the Cleft.
And they pulled up from the Hole of the Cleft and pitched in Jotbathah.
And they pulled up from Jotbathah and pitched at Ebronah.
And they pulled up from Ebronah and pitched at Ezion-geber.
And they pulled up from Ezion-geber and pitched in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.
And they pulled up from Kadesh and pitched in Mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
And Aaron the priest went up to Mount Hor at the command of the LORD and died there, in the fortieth year after the sons of Israel had come up out of the land of Egypt, in the first of the fifth month.
And Aaron was a hundred and twenty-three years old when he died in Mount Hor.
And king Arad the Canaanite, who lived in the south in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the sons of Israel.
And they pulled up from Mount Hor and pitched in Zalmonah.
And they pulled up from Zalmonah and pitched in Punon.
And they pulled up from Punon and pitched in Oboth.
And they pulled up from Oboth and pitched in Ije-abarim, in the border of Moab.
And they pulled up from Iim and pitched in Dibon-gad.
And they pulled up from Dibon-gad and pitched in Almon-diblathaim.
And they pulled up from Almon-diblathaim and pitched in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
And they pulled up from the mountains of Abarim and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan at Jericho.
And they pitched by Jordan, from The House of Deserts to The Meadow of Acacias in the plains of Moab.
And the LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab beside Jordan, at Jericho, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, When you have passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan,
then you shall drive out all those who live in the land from before you, and destroy all their carved images, and destroy all their molded images and pluck down all their high places.
And you shall possess the land, and live in it. For I have given you the land to possess it.
And you shall divide the land by lot by your families. And you shall give the more inheritance to the many; to the few you shall give the less inheritance. Wherever the lot falls out to him; according to the tribes of your fathers you shall inherit.
But if you will not drive out the people of the land from before you, then it will be, those of them whom you let remain shall be goads in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they shall trouble you in the land in which you live.
And it shall be, as I thought to do to them, so I shall do to you.