Alleluia.  At the departure of Israel from Egypt, the house of Jacob from a barbarous people:
Judea was made his sanctuary; Israel was made his power.
The sea looked, and it fled. The Jordan was turned back again.
The mountains exulted like rams, and the hills like lambs among the sheep.
What happened to you, O sea, so that you fled, and to you, O Jordan, so that you were turned back again?
What happened to you, O mountains, so that you exulted like rams, and to you, O hills, so that you exulted like lambs among the sheep?
Before the face of the Lord, the earth was moved, before the face of the God of Jacob.
He converted the rock into pools of water, and the cliff into fountains of waters.
Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory.
Give glory to your mercy and your truth, lest the Gentiles should say, “Where is their God?”
But our God is in heaven. All things whatsoever that he has willed, he has done.
The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the works of the hands of men.
They have mouths, and do not speak; they have eyes, and do not see.
They have ears, and do not hear; they have noses, and do not smell.
They have hands, and do not feel; they have feet, and do not walk. Neither will they cry out with their throat.
Let those who make them become like them, along with all who trust in them.
The house of Israel has hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector.
The house of Aaron has hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector.
Those who fear the Lord have hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector.
The Lord has been mindful of us, and he has blessed us. He has blessed the house of Israel. He has blessed the house of Aaron.
He has blessed all who fear the Lord, the small with the great.
May the Lord add blessings upon you: upon you, and upon your sons.
Blessed are you by the Lord, who made heaven and earth.
The heaven of heaven is for the Lord, but the earth he has given to the sons of men.
The dead will not praise you, Lord, and neither will all those who descend into Hell.
But we who live will bless the Lord, from this time forward, and even forever.