But I want you not to be ignorant, brothers, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea,
and all in Moses were immersed in the cloud and in the sea.
And they all ate the same spiritual food,
and they all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from a spiritual rock that followed them. And the rock was the Christ.
However with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were strewn in the wilderness.
But these things became our examples, for us not to be men who lust for evil things as those also lusted.
Neither become ye idolaters as some of them, as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to revel.
Nor should we fornicate as some of them fornicated, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day.
Nor should we challenge the Christ as some of them also challenged, and were destroyed by the serpents.
And ye should not grumble as some of them grumbled, and were destroyed by the destroyer.
Now all these things happened to those men for examples, and they were written for our admonition, to whom the ends of the ages came.
Therefore let him who seems to stand take heed lest he fall.
No temptation has taken you except is common to man. But God is faithful who will not allow you to be tempted above what ye are able, but with the temptation will also make the way to escape, to enable you to endure.
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
I speak as to wise men, judge ye what I say.
The cup of the blessing that we bless, is it not a participation of the blood of the Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation of the body of the Christ?
Because we, the many, are one bread, one body, for we are all partakers of the one bread.
Look at Israel according to flesh. Those who eat the sacrifices, are they not partakers of the altar?
What therefore do I say, that an idol is anything, or that a sacrifice to an idol is anything?
Rather, that which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not want you to become partakers of demons.
Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons. Ye cannot be partakers of a table of the Lord, and of a table of demons.
Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?
All things are permitted for me, but not all things are expedient. All things are permitted for me, but not all things are constructive.
Let not one man seek that of himself, but each man that of the other.
Eat everything being sold in a meat market, inquiring of nothing because of the conscience,
for the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness of it.
If any of those unbelievers invites you, and ye want to go, eat everything being set before you, inquiring of nothing because of the conscience.
But if any man says to you, This is a sacrifice to an idol, do not eat for the sake of that man who informed, and the conscience, for the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness of it.
And I say conscience, not the one of himself, but the one of the other man. For why is my liberty judged by another conscience?
If I partake with thankfulness, why am I maligned about which I express thanks?
Therefore whether ye eat, or drink, or anything ye do, do all to the glory of God.
Become ye inoffensive both to Jews and to Greeks, and to the church of God,
just as I also strive to please in all things for all men, not seeking my own advantage, but that of the many, so that they may be saved.