And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Son of man Let Jerusalem know her abominations,
Therefore shalt thou say— Thus saith My Lord. Yahweh To Jerusalem, Thine origin and thy birth, were of the land of the Canaanite,— Thy father was the Amorite And thy mother a Hittite
And, as for thy birth, in the day thou wast born, Thy navel-cord was not cut, And, in water, wast thou not bathed to cleanse thee,— And, as for being salted, thou was not salted, And, as for being bandaged, thou wast not bandaged.
No eye, threw a shield over thee, by doing for thee one of these things taking pity on thee,- But thou wast cast out on the face of the field Because thy person, was abhorred, in the day thou wast born.
And I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, thrusting about thee in thy blood, And said to thee— Despite thy blood, live! Yea I said to thee— Despite thy blood, live!
Into myriads—like the bud of the field, made I thee, And thou didst increase and become well grown, and didst attain to most excellent adornments,— Thy breasts were well-formed And thy hair was grown, But thou thyself wast utterly naked.
And I passed by thee and looked upon thee and lo! thy time was the time for endearments, So I spread my skirt over thee, and covered thy shame, And took an oath to thee And entered into covenant with thee. Declareth My Lord. Yahweh. And thou didst become mine.
And I bathed thee in water, and rinsed thy blood from off thee, And anointed thee with oil;
And clothed thee with an embroidered dress, And sandalled thee in red leather, And wrapped thee about with fine linen, And put over thee a mantle of silk.
Then decked I thee with ornaments, And put bracelets upon thy hands, And a neckchain upon thy throat;
And put a nose-jewel upon thy nose, And earrings in thine ears, And a crown of adorning, upon thy head.
Thus wast thou adorned with gold and silver, And thy raiment was of fine linen and silk and embroidered work, Fine flour and honey and oil, didst thou eat,— And so thou becamest exceedingly beautiful, And didst attain unto royalty.
Then went forth thy fame among the nations. for thy beauty,- For perfect, it was—in my splendour which I had put upon thee, Declareth My Lord, Yahweh.
Then didst thou trust in thy beauty, And become unchaste, because of thy fame,- And didst pour out thine unchastity upon every passer-by, his it was!
Yea thou didst take of thy raiment and madest thee high places of hangings, And didst commit unchastity thereon,- Which ought not to have befallen And not to have come to pass.
But thou didst take thine adorning jewels Of my gold and of my silver which I had given thee, And didst make thee images of the male,— And didst act unchastely with them;
And thou didst take thine embroidered raiment, and cover them,- And mine oil and mine incense, didst thou set before them;
And my food which I had given thee, Fine flour and oil and honey wherewith I fed thee, And didst set it before them for a satisfying odour Yea so it was,— Saith My Lord Yahweh.
And thou didst take thy sons and thy daughters, Whom thou hadst borne unto me, And didst sacrifice them unto them to be devoured,- Is this of thine unchastity. a light thing?
Yea thou didst slay my children,— And didst deliver them up. that they should be caused to pass through the fire unto them.
And in all thine abominations, and thine unchaste ways, thou rememberedst not the days of thy youth, When thou wast utterly naked. When thou wast thrusting about thee in thy blood!
And it came to pass after all thy wickedness, Woe! Woe! to thee, Exclaimeth My Lord Yahweh;
That thou didst build thee a brothel,— and didst make thee a height in every broadway:
At the head of every road, didst thou build thy height, And bring thy beauty into disgust, And open thy feet to every passer-by, So didst thou make thine unchaste ways to abound.
Then didst thou extend thine unchaste acts unto the sons of Egypt—thy neighbour great of flesh,- And caused thine unchaste ways to abound provoking me to anger.
Lo! therefore, I have stretched out my hand against thee, And diminished thine allotted portion,— And have delivered thee up unto the desire of them who hate thee The daughters of the Philistines, who are ashamed of thy lewd way.
Thou didst also extend thine unchastity unto the sons of Assyria, because thou wast insatiable. Yet though thou didst behave unchastely with them, yet even so couldst thou not be satisfied,
Thou didst therefore cause thine unchaste ways to abound unto the land of Canaan as towards Chaldea. Yet even herewith, wast thou not satisfied.
How weak was thy heart! Exclaimeth My Lord Yahweh,— That thou couldst have done all these things, The doing of a lewd woman without shame:
That thou couldst have built thy brothel at the head of every road, And thy height, couldst have made in every broadway,- Yet becamest not as a harlot to lay claim to a harlot’s hire.
A wife who committeth adultery, instead of her husband accepteth strangers.
To all harlots, they give a present,— But, thou, didst give thy presents to all thy lovers, And didst bribe them to come in unto thee from every side, in thine unchastity!
And so there came about in thee, the reverse of women, in thine unchastity, In that they did not follow thee for purposes of lewdness,— And in that thou gavest a present while, no present, was given to thee So didst thou become, the reverse.
Therefore O harlot, hear thou the word of Yahweh;
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh,— Because thy money, was poured out, and thy shame, was uncovered, in thine unchastity, unto thy lovers,—and unto all thine abominable manufactured gods, even as the blood of thy children, whom thou didst deliver up unto them,
Therefore behold me! gathering together all thy lovers unto whom thou didst make thyself pleasant, Even all whom thou lovedst, With all whom thou hatedst,— Yea I will gather them together unto thee from every side And will uncover thy shame unto them, And they shall see all thy shame.
So will I judge thee. with the judgments meted out to adulteresses and shedders of blood,- And will repay thee with the blood of indignation and jealousy;
And will deliver thee into their hand. And they shall pull down thy brothel And break in pieces thy heights, And strip thee of thy raiment, And take away thine adorning jewels,- And leave thee utterly naked.
Then will they bring up against thee a gathered host, And they will stone thee with stones,- And cut thee to pieces with their swords;
And burn up thy houses with fire, And execute upon thee judgments before the eyes of many women,—So will I cause thee to cease from acting unchastely, Moreover also a present, shalt thou not give any more.
So will I let mine indignation find rest in thee, And my jealousy shall depart from thee,—And I will be quiet, and not be provoked any more.
Because thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, But hast enraged me with all these things Therefore also behold! I thy way, upon thine own head, will place Declareth My Lord Yahweh, And thou shalt not commit a crime above all thine abominations
Lo! every one who useth proverbs, against thee, shall use a proverb saying,— Like the mother, so her daughter!
The daughter of thy mother, thou art! One abhorring her own husband and her own children,— Yea the sister of thy sisters, thou art Who abhorred their own husbands and their own children, Your mother was a Hittite, And your father an Amorite.
And thine elder sister, was Samaria, she and her daughters, dwelling on thy left hand,— And thy sister younger than thou dwelling on thy right hand was Sodom and her daughters.
Yet not in their ways, didst thou walk, nor according to their abominations, didst thou do,— As though that were quite too little, thou didst corrupt thyself beyond them in all thy ways.
As I live, Declareth My Lord Yahweh, Very! Sodom thy sister had not done, neither she nor her daughters,—as thou and thy daughters have done.
Lo! this became the iniquity of Sodom thy sister,— Pride, fulness of bread, and careless security came to her and to her daughters, And the hand of the oppressed and the needy, she strengthened not.
So then they became haughty, and committed abomination before me,- And I took them away. when I saw [it],
Nor did, Samaria, commit, one-half thy sins,— But thou didst multiply thine abominations more than they, And didst cause thy sisters to appear righteous, by all the abominations which thou didst commit.
Thou also bear thine own reproach, which thou didst adjudge to thy sisters, by thy sins in which thou wast more abominable than they, thou didst make them appear more righteous than thou,— Thou also, therefore turn thou pale and bear thine own reproach, for making thy sisters appear righteous!
When therefore I bring back their captivity, The captivity of Sodom and her daughters, And the captivity of Samaria and her daughters Then will I bring back thy captivities in their midst:
That thou mayest bear thine own reproach, And take to thyself reproach because of all that thou didst in comforting them.
When thy sisters Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former estate, And Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former estate Then thou and thy daughters, shall return to your former estate.
And Sodom thy sister was never heard in thy mouth, —In the day of thy pride:
Before thy wickedness was discovered, As now, [thou art] the reproach of the daughters of Syria and all round about her the daughters of the Philistines, —who are despising thee on every side.
As for thy crime and thine abominations, thou thyself, dost bear them,— Declareth Yahweh.
For Thus, saith My Lord, Yahweh, Therefore will I deal with thee just as thou hast dealt,- In that thou didst despise an oath by breaking a covenant.
Therefore will I remember my covenant with thee in the days of thy youth,— And will establish for thee a covenant age-abiding.
Thou shalt therefore remember thy ways and take to thyself reproach, by receiving thy sisters. The older than thou, And the younger than thou,- And I will give them unto thee for daughters Though not by thine own covenant.
But I myself, will establish my covenant with thee— And thou shalt know that I, am Yahweh:
To the end thou mayest remember and turn pale, and there be to thee no more, an opening of mouth, because of thy reproach,- In that I have accepted a propitiatory covering for thee as to all that thou hast done, Declareth My Lord. Yahweh.