THE PARABLE OF SALOMON. A wise sonne maketh a glad father: but a foolish sonne is an heauines to his mother.
The treasures of wickednesse profite nothing: but righteousnesse deliuereth from death.
The Lord will not famish the soule of the righteous: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.
A slouthfull hand maketh poore: but the hand of the diligent maketh riche.
He that gathereth in sommer, is the sonne of wisdome: but he that sleepeth in haruest, is the sonne of confusion.
Blessings are vpon the head of the righteous: but iniquitie shall couer the mouth of the wicked.
The memoriall of the iust shalbe blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rotte.
The wise in heart will receiue commandements: but the foolish in talke shalbe beaten.
He that walketh vprightly, walketh boldely: but he that peruerteth his wayes, shalbe knowen.
He that winketh with the eye, worketh sorowe, and he yet is foolish in talke, shalbe beaten.
The mouth of a righteous man is a welspring of life: but iniquitie couereth the mouth of the wicked.
Hatred stirreth vp contentions: but loue couereth all trespasses.
In the lippes of him that hath vnderstanding wisdome is founde, and a rod shalbe for the backe of him that is destitute of wisedome.
Wise men lay vp knowledge: but ye mouth of the foole is a present destruction.
The riche mans goodes are his strong citie: but the feare of the needie is their pouertie.
The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: but the reuenues of the wicked to sinne.
He that regardeth instruction, is in the way of life: but he that refuseth correction, goeth out of the way.
He that dissembleth hatred with lying lips, and he that inuenteth slaunder, is a foole.
In many wordes there cannot want iniquitie: but he that refrayneth his lippes, is wise.
The tongue of the iust man is as fined siluer: but the heart of the wicked is litle worth.
The lippes of the righteous doe feede many: but fooles shall die for want of wisedome.
The blessing of the Lord, it maketh riche, and he doeth adde no sorowes with it.
It is as a pastime to a foole to doe wickedly: but wisedome is vnderstanding to a man.
That which the wicked feareth, shall come vpon him: but God wil graunt the desire of the righteous.
As the whirlewinde passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is as an euerlasting foundation.
As vineger is to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the slouthful to them that send him.
The feare of the Lord increaseth the dayes: but the yeeres of the wicked shalbe diminished.
The patient abiding of the righteous shall be gladnesse: but the hope of the wicked shall perish.
The way of the Lord is strength to the vpright man: but feare shall be for the workers of iniquitie.
The righteous shall neuer be remooued: but the wicked shall not dwell in the land.
The mouth of the iust shall be fruitfull in wisdome: but the tongue of the froward shall be cut out.
The lips of the righteous knowe what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaketh froward things.