After he had completed all his sayings within the hearing of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
And, a certain centurion’s servant, being sick, was on the point of dying,—who was, by him, highly prized.
But, hearing about Jesus, he sent forth unto him elders of the Jews, requesting him that he would come and bring his servant safely through.
And, they, coming near unto Jesus, began beseeching him earnestly, saying—Worthy, is he for whom thou mayest do this,
for he loveth our nation, and, the synagogue, he, built for us.
And, Jesus, was journeying with them. But, he, by this time, being not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying unto him—Lord! do not trouble thyself, for I am of no consideration, that, under my roof, thou shouldst enter.
Wherefore, neither deemed I, myself, worthy to come unto thee,—but speak with a word, and let my servant be healed.
For, I too, am a man ranked, under authority, having, under myself, soldiers; and I say to this one—Go! and he goeth,—and to another—Come! and he cometh,—and to my servant—Do this! and he doeth it.
And, hearing these things, Jesus marvelled at him; and, turning to the multitude following him, said—I tell you, Not even in Israel, such faith as this, have I found!
And they who were sent, returning unto the house, found the servant, well.
And it came to pass thereafter, that he journeyed unto a city called Nain, and there were journeying with him, his disciples and a great multitude.
Now, as he drew near unto the gate of the city, then lo! there was being brought forth, one dead, the only-begotten son of his mother,—and, she, was a widow; and, a considerable multitude of the city, was with her.
And, beholding her, the Lord, was moved with compassion over her, and said to her—Be not weeping!
And, going forward, he touched the coffin, and the bearers stood still; and he said—Young man! to thee, I say, Arise!
And the dead man sat up, and began to speak; and he gave him to his mother.
And fear seized them, all, and they began to glorify God, saying—A great prophet, hath been raised up amongst us! and—God hath visited his people!
And this report went forth throughout the whole of Judaea, and all the surrounding country.
And John’s disciples carried tidings unto him concerning all these things.
And, calling unto him certain two of his disciples, John sent unto the Lord, saying—Art, thou, the Coming One, or, a different one, are we to expect?
And, coming near unto him, the men said—John the Immerser, hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art, thou, the Coming One, or, another, are we to expect?
In that very hour, he cured many from diseases, and plagues, and wicked spirits; and, unto many blind, gave he the favour to see.
And, answering, he said unto them—Go and bear tidings unto John, as to what ye have seen and heard: The blind, are receiving sight, the lame, walk, lepers, are cleansed, and, the deaf, hear, the dead, are raised, the destitute, are told the glad-message;
And, happy, is he, whosoever shall not find occasion of stumbling in me!
And, the messengers of John having departed, he began to say unto the multitudes, concerning John—What went ye forth into the desert to gaze at? A reed, by a wind, shaken?
But what went ye forth to see? A man, in soft garments, arrayed? Lo! they who in splendid apparel and luxury are found, are, in the kingly courts.
But what went ye forth to see? A prophet? Yea! I say unto you,—and abundantly more than a prophet.
This, is he concerning whom it is written—Lo! I am sending forth my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.
I say unto you—A greater, among them that are born of women, than John, is there none; but, he that is least in the kingdom of God, is greater than he.
And, all the people, when they heard, and the tax-collectors, justified God, having been immersed with the immersion of John;
but, the Pharisees and the lawyers, had set aside, the counsel of God against themselves, not being immersed by him.
Unto what, then, shall I liken the men of this generation? And unto what are they like?
They are like unto the children sitting, in a market-place, and calling one to another, who say—We played the flute for you, and ye danced not, We wailed, and ye wept not.
For John the Immerser hath come, neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and ye say—A demon, he hath:
The Son of Man hath come, eating and drinking, and ye say—Lo! a man, gluttonous and a wine-drinker, a friend of tax-collectors and sinners.
And yet wisdom hath been justified by all her children.
And a certain one of the Pharisees was requesting him, that he would eat with him; and, entering into the house of the Pharisee, he reclined.
And, lo! a woman, who indeed was in the city a sinner; and, when she found out that he was reclining in the house of the Pharisee, providing an alabaster-jar of perfume,
and standing behind, near his feet, weeping, with the tears, began she to be wetting his feet, and, with the hair of her head, was wiping off [the tears], and was tenderly kissing his feet, and anointing them with the perfume.
But the Pharisee who had invited him, seeing it, spake within himself, saying, This one, if he were the prophet, would have been taking note, who and of what sort, is the woman, who is even touching him, that she is, a sinner.
And, making answer, Jesus said unto him—Simon! I have, unto thee, something to say. He, then—Teacher, speak!—saith he.
Two debtors, there were, to a certain creditor,—the one, owed five hundred denaries, and, the other, fifty.
they not having wherewith to pay, he forgave, both. Which of them, therefore, will love him, more?
Making answer, Simon said—I suppose, that he to whom, the more, he forgave. And, he, said unto him—Rightly, hast thou judged.
And, turning towards the woman, unto Simon, he said—Seest thou this woman? I entered into thy house: water to me, on my feet, thou didst not give,—but, she, with her tears, hath wetted my feet, and, with her hair, wiped off [the tears] .
A kiss, to me, thou didst not give,—but, she, from the time I came in, hath not ceased tenderly kissing my feet.
With oil, my head, thou didst not anoint,—but, she, with perfume, hath anointed, my feet.
For which cause, I say unto thee—Her many sins, have been forgiven, because she hath loved, much: but, he to whom little is forgiven, little, loveth.
And he said unto her—Thy sins have been forgiven.
And they who were reclining together, began to be saying within themselves—Who is, this, that, even forgiveth sins?
But he said unto the woman—Thy faith, hath saved thee,—Go thy way into peace.