And it came to pass, when David had taken up his abode in his house, that David said unto Nathan the prophet, Lo! I, am dwelling in a house of cedars, but, the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, is under curtains.
Then said Nathan unto David, All that is in thy heart, do,—for, God, is with thee.
But so it was that, in that night, the word of God came unto Nathan, saying:
Go and say unto David my servant, Thus, saith Yahweh,—Thou, shalt not build me a house, to dwell in;
seeing that I have not dwelt in a house, since the day that I brought up Israel, until this day,—but have been from tent to tent, and without a habitation.
Wheresoever I have wandered with all Israel, spake I ever, a word, with one of the judges of Israel, whom I charged to shepherd my people, saying,—Wherefore have ye not built me a house of cedars?
Now, therefore, thus, shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus, saith Yahweh of hosts, I myself, took thee from the pasture, from after the flock,—to become leader over my people Israel;
and was with thee whithersoever thou didst go, and have cut off all thine enemies, from before thee,—and will make thee a name, like the name of the great ones, who are in the earth;
and will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, and they shall inhabit their place, and be unsettled no more,—neither shall the sons of perversity again wear them out, as at the first;
even from the days when I put judges in charge over my people Israel, and have subdued all thine enemies,—that I might make thee great, yea, a house, will Yahweh build for thee.
And it shall be that, when thy days are fulfilled, to sleep with thy fathers, then will I raise up thy seed after thee, who shall be of thy sons,—and I will establish his kingdom.
He, shall build me a house,—and I will establish his throne unto times age-abiding.
I, will become his father, and, he, shall become my son,—and, my lovingkindness, will I not cause to depart from him,—as I caused it to depart from him who was before thee;
but I will cause him to remain over my house and over my kingdom, unto times age-abiding,—and, his throne, shall be established, unto times age-abiding.
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so, spake Nathan unto David.
Then entered King David, and tarried before Yahweh,—and said, Who am, I, O Yahweh God, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me hitherto;
and hast made this seem little in thine eyes, O God, in that thou hast spoken concerning the house of thy servant, for a great while to come? Thus wilt thou provide for me, according to the rank of manhood, and hast exalted me, O Yahweh God!
What, yet further, can David say unto thee, [thus] to honour thy servant,—seeing that, thou thyself, knowest, thine own servant?
O Yahweh, for the sake of thy servant, and according to thine own heart, hast thou done all this great thing,—making known all the great things.
O Yahweh, there is none like unto thee, yea there is no God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
Who then is like thy people Israel, a nation alone in the earth,—whom God went to redeem, to be his own people, to make for thyself a name for great and fearful things, to drive out, nations, from before thy people, whom thou didst redeem out of Egypt;
and didst appoint thy people Israel for thyself as a people, unto times age-abiding,—thou thyself, also, O Yahweh, becoming their God?
Now, therefore, O Yahweh, the word which thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, be it steadfast unto times age-abiding,—and do as thou hast spoken:
yea let it be steadfast, and so let thy Name be magnified unto times age-abiding, saying, Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, is a God to Israel! seeing that, the house of David thy servant, is established before thee.
For, thou, O my God, hast unveiled the ear of thy servant, that thou wilt build for him a house,—for this cause, hath thy servant found [it in his heart] to pray before thee.
Now, therefore, O Yahweh, thou, art God,—therefore hast thou spoken concerning thy servant this goodness.
Now, therefore, let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may be unto times age-abiding before thee,—for, thou O Yahweh, hast blessed, and it is to be blessed unto times age-abiding.