And they came unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gerasenes.
And, when he went forth out of the boat, [straightway], there met him, from amongst the tombs, a man, in an impure spirit:
who had his dwelling among the tombs, and, not even with a chain, any longer, was anyone able to bind him,—
because of his having been, many times, with fetters and chains, bound, and the chains having been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters smashed, and no one was mighty enough to tame him;
and, continually, night and day, in the tombs and in the mountains, was he crying aloud, and cutting himself in pieces with stones.
And, seeing Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed down to him;
and, crying out with a loud voice, saith—What have in common with thee? O Jesus, Son of God Most High? I adjure thee by God,—Do not torment me!
For he was saying to him—Go forth thou impure spirit, out of the man;
and he was questioning him—What is thy name? and he saith to him—Legion, is my name, because we are, many;
and he was beseeching him much that he would not send them forth outside the country.
Now there was there, near the mountain, a large herd of swine, feeding;
and they besought him, saying—Send us into the swine, that, into them, we may enter;
and he suffered them. And the impure spirits, going out, entered into the swine, and the herd rushed down the cliff into the sea, about two thousand, and were choked in the sea.
And, they who had been feeding them, fled, and bare tidings into the city and into the fields,—and they came to see what it was that had happened.
And they come unto Jesus, and view the demonized man, clothed and of sound mind, him who had had the legion,—and they were struck with fear.
And the beholders narrated to them, how it happened to the demonized man, and concerning the swine.
And they began to beseech him, to depart from their bounds.
And, as he was entering into the boat, he who had been demonized was beseeching him, that, with him, he might be.
And he suffered him not, but saith unto him—Withdraw into thy house, unto thine own, and bear tidings unto them, how many things the Lord for thee hath done, and hath had mercy on thee.
And he departed, and began proclaiming, in the Decapolis, how many things Jesus had done for him,—and, all, were marvelling.
And, Jesus crossing over in the boat again unto the other side, there was gathered a large multitude unto him, and he was by the lake.
And there cometh one of the synagogue-rulers, by name Jairus, and, seeing him, falleth at his feet,
and beseecheth him much, saying—My little daughter is at her last!—that, coming, thou wouldest lay thy hands upon her, that she may be made well, and live;
and he departed with him. And there was following him a large multitude, and they were pressing upon him.
And, a woman, who had had a flow of blood twelve years,
and suffered much from many physicians, and spent all her means, and profited, nothing,—but had, rather, become worse,
hearing the things about Jesus, came in the crowd from behind, and touched his mantle;
for she was saying—If I can touch so much as his mantle, I shall be made well;
and, straightway, the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she knew, in her body, that she was healed from the plague.
And, straightway, Jesus, taking note in himself of the power which, out of him, went forth, turning round in the crowd, was saying—Who hath touched my garments?
and his disciples were saying to him—Thou seest the crowd pressing upon thee,—and sayest thou—Who hath touched me?
and he was looking round to see her who, this thing had done.
And, the woman, overcome with fear, and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came, and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.
And, he, said to her—Daughter! thy faith hath made thee well; withdraw into peace, and be whole from thy plague.
While yet he is speaking, they come from the synagogue-ruler’s, saying—Thy daughter, is dead! Why, further, annoy the teacher?
But, Jesus, overhearing the word being spoken, saith unto the synagogue-ruler—Do not fear, only have faith!
And he suffered no one to follow with him, save Peter and James and John the brother of James.
And they come into the house of the synagogue-ruler, and he observeth a tumult, and persons weeping and wailing greatly;
and, entering, he saith unto them—Why are ye making a tumult, and weeping? The child, is, not dead, but, is sleeping;
and they were deriding him. But, he, thrusting all forth, taketh with him the father of the child, and the mother, and them who were with him,—and entereth where the child was;
and, grasping the hand of the child, he saith unto her—Talitha, koum! which is, when translated—O damsel! to thee, I say, Arise!
And, straightway, the damsel arose, and was walking about; for she was twelve years of age. And they were beside themselves, straightway, with a great transport;
and he commanded them, again and again, that, no one, should get to know this thing,—and bade that food should be given her to eat.