And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lighted with his glory.
And he cried with a strong voice, saying: Babylon the great has fallen, has fallen, and has become the habitation of demons, and the haunt of every unclean spirit, and the resort of every unclean and hateful bird.
For she has made all nations drink of the maddening wine of her lewdness; and the kings of the earth have practiced lewdness with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich by the power of her voluptuousness.
And I heard another voice from heaven, saying: Come out of her, my people, lest you become partakers of her sins, and lest you receive of her plagues.
For her sins reach even to heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities.
Reward her as she has rewarded you, and render back to her double, according to her works: in the cup that she has mixed, mix for her double.
As much glory and voluptuousness as she has given to herself, so much torment and sorrow give her: for she says in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.
Therefore, her plagues shall come in one day, death and mourning and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is the Lord God who judges her.
And the kings of the earth, who have practiced lewdness and lived voluptuously with her, shall weep and lament for her, when they see the smoke of her burning,
standing far off for fear of her torment, saying: Alas, alas, that great city of Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour has your judgment come.
And the merchants of the earth shall weep and lament over her, because no one buys their merchandise any more;
the merchandise of gold and silver and precious stones, and of pearls, and of fine linen and purple, and of silk and scarlet; and every kind of thyme wood, and every kind of vessel of ivory, and every kind of vessel of most costly wood, and of brass, and of iron, and of marble:
and cinnamon and amomum and incense, and ointment and frankincense, and wine and oil, and fine flour and wheat, and beasts and sheep, and horses and chariots, and bodies and souls of men.
And the fruits that your soul desired have departed from you; and all things that are dainty and sumptuous have perished from you, and you shall find them no more at all.
Those who traded in these things, who were made rich by her, Shalt stand far off for fear of her torment, weeping and mourning and
saying: Alas, alas, that great city, that was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls! for in one hour, so great riches have been brought to ruin.
And every master of a ship, and every one in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood far off,
and cried, when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying: What city is like the great city?
And they threw dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and mourning and saying: Alas, alas, that great city, by which all that had ships in the sea became rich by means of costly merchandise! for in one hour she is made desolate.
Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets: for God has avenged you on her.
And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and threw it into the sea, saying: Thus, with violence shall Babylon, that great city, be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.
And the voice of harpers and musicians, and of pipers and trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in you: and no artist of any art whatever, shall be found any more in you: and the sound of the millstone shall be heard no more in you:
and the light of a lamp shall shine no more in you: and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more in you: for your merchants were the great men of the earth: for by your sorcery were all nations deceived.
And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.