Wherefore, since from the Almighty times are not hid, have, his knowing ones, no vision of his days?
Boundaries, men move back, flocks, they seize and consume;
The ass of the fatherless, they drive off, they take in pledge the ox of the widow;
They turn aside the needy out of the way, at once, are the humbled of the land made to hide themselves.
Lo! [as] wild asses in the wilderness, they go forth with their work, eager seekers for prey, the waste plain, yieldeth them food for their young;
In the field—a man’s fodder, they cut down, and, the vineyard of the lawless, they strip of its late berries;
Ill-clad, they are left to lodge without clothing, and have no covering in the cold;
With the sweeping rain of the mountains, are they wet, and, through having no shelter, they embrace a rock.
Men tear, from the breast, the fatherless, and, over the poor, they take a pledge;
Naked, they go about without clothing, and, famished, they carry the sheaves;
Between their walls, are they exposed to the sun, Wine-presses, they tread, and yet are thirsty;
Out of the city—out of the houses, they make outcry. and, the soul of the wounded, calleth for help, and, GOD, doth not regard it as foolish.
They, have become rebels against the light,—they are not acquainted with the ways thereof, neither abide they in the paths thereof.
With the light, riseth the murderer, He slayeth the poor and needy, And, in the night, he becometh like a thief.
And, the eye of the adulterer, watcheth for the evening twilight, saying, Not an eye will see me! A covering for the face, he putteth on;
He breaketh, in the dark, into houses,—By day, they lock themselves in, They know not the light;
For, in the case of all such, morning to them is the death-shade, For, to be recognised, is a death-shade terror.
Swift is he on the face of the waters, Speedily vanished their share in the land, He turneth not to the way of the vineyards.
Drought and heat, steal away snow water, Hades, them who have sinned.
Maternal love shall forget him, the worm shall find him sweet, No more shall he be remembered, but perversity shall be shivered like a tree.
He oppresseth the barren who beareth not, and, to the widow, he doeth not good;
Yea he draggeth along the mighty by his strength, He riseth up, and none hath assurance of life;
It is given him to be secure, and confident, yet, his eyes, are upon their ways.
They are exalted a little, and are not, Yea having been laid low, like all men, are they gathered, Even as the top of an ear of corn, do they hang down.
But, if not, who then can convict me of falsehood? or make of no account my words?