And a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets cried to Elisha, saying, Your servant my husband is dead. And you know that your servant feared the LORD. And the lender has come to take my two children to himself for slaves.
And Elisha said to her, What shall I do for you? Tell me, what do you have in the house? And she said, Your handmaid has not a thing in the house except a pot of oil.
And he said, Go, borrow vessels for yourself from outside, from your neighbors, empty vessels. Do not let them be few.
And you shall go in and shut the door on you and your sons. And you shall pour out into all those vessels. And you shall set aside the full ones.
And she went from him and shut the door on her and on her sons. They brought to her, and she poured out.
And it happened when the vessels were full, she said to her son, Bring me another vessel. And he said to her, There is not a vessel left. And the oil stopped.
And she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go, sell the oil and pay your debt, and you and your sons shall live from the rest.
And the day came when Elisha passed over to Shunem. And a great woman was there. And she laid hold on him to eat bread. And it happened, as often as he passed by, he turned in there to eat bread.
And she said to her husband, Behold now, I see that this is a holy man of God who passes by us continually.
Please, let us make a little room on the wall. And let us set a bed for him there, and a table, and a stool, and a lampstand. And when he comes to us, he shall turn in there.
And the day came when he came in there, and he turned into the room and lay there.
And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. And he called her, and she stood before him.
And he said to him, Say now to her, Behold, you have been thoughtful for us with all this care. What is to be done for you? Would you be spoken for to the king or to the commander of the army? And she answered, I dwell among my own people.
And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi answered, Truly, she has no child, and her husband is old.
And he said, Call her! And he called her, and she stood in the door.
And he said, At this time, according to the time of life, you shall embrace a son. And she said, No, my lord, O man of God, do not lie to your handmaid.
And the woman conceived and bore a son at that time that Elisha had said to her, according to the time of life.
And the boy grew, and the day came that he went out to his father to the reapers.
And he said to his father, My head, my head! And he said to a lad, Carry him to his mother.
And he carried him and brought him to his mother And he sat on her knees until noon and died.
And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door on him and went out.
And she called to her husband and said, Please send me one of the young men and one of the asses so that I may run to the man of God and come again.
And he said, Why will you go to him today? It is neither new moon nor sabbath. And she said, It is well.
And she saddled an ass and said to her servant, Drive and go forward! Do not hold back your riding for me unless I tell you.
And she went and came to the man of God, to Mount Carmel. And it happened when the man of God saw her afar off, he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, the Shunammite.
Please run now to meet her, and say to her, Is it well with you? Is it well with your husband? Is it well with the boy? And she answered, Well!
And she came to the man of God to the hill, and she caught him by the feet. And Gehazi came near to push her away. And the man of God said, Let her alone, for her soul is troubled within her. And the LORD has hidden it from me and has not told me.
And she said, Did I desire a son from my lord? Did I not say, Do not deceive me?
Then he said to Gehazi, Bind up your loins and take my staff in your hand, and go. If you meet any man, do not greet him. And if any greet you, do not answer him again. And lay my staff on the face of the child.
And the mother of the child said, As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. And he arose and followed her.
And Gehazi passed on before them and laid the staff on the face of the child. But there was no voice nor hearing. And he turned back to meet him and told him, saying, The boy has not awakened.
And Elisha had come to the house. And behold, the boy was dead, and laid out on his bed.
And he went in and shut the door on the two of them, and prayed to the LORD.
And he went up and lay on the boy, and put his mouth on his mouth and his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands. And he stretched himself on the boy. And the flesh of the boy became warm.
And he returned and walked in the house to and fro. And he went up and stretched himself on him. And the boy sneezed seven times, and the boy opened his eyes.
And he called Gehazi and said, Call this Shunammite. And he called her, and she came in to him. And he said, Take up your son!
And she went in and fell at his feet and bowed to the ground, and took up her son, and went out.
And Elisha came again to Gilgal. And there was a famine in the land. And the sons of the prophets were sitting before him. And he said to his servant, Set on the great pot and boil pottage for the sons of the prophets.
And one went out into the field to gather herbs. And he found a vine of the field, and gathered gourds from it in the field. And with the lap of his garment full, he came in and shredded them into the pot of pottage. For they did not know them.
And they poured out for the men to eat. And it happened as they were eating of the pottage, they cried out and said, O man of God, death is in the pot! And they could not eat.
And he said, Then bring meal. And he cast it into the pot. And he said, Pour out for the people, and they may eat. And there was no evil thing in the pot.
And a man came from Baal-shalisha and brought the man of God bread from the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley and full ears of grain in his sack. And he said, Give to the people that they may eat.
And his servant said, What? Should I set this before a hundred men? He said again, Give to the people so that they may eat, for so says the LORD, They shall eat and shall leave some.
And he set before them, and they ate, and left some of it, according to the word of the LORD.