And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the eastern gate of the house of Jehovah, the gate which faces eastward. And, behold, at the opening of the gate were twenty five men. And I saw among them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, leaders of the people.
And He said to me, Son of man, these are the men who plot evil and advise wicked advice in this city,
who say, It is not near, let us build houses; she is the pot, and we are the flesh.
So prophesy against them, prophesy, son of man!
And the Spirit of Jehovah fell on me and said to me, Speak, So says Jehovah: So you have said, house of Israel, for I Myself know the elevations of your spirit.
You have multiplied your slain in this city, and you have filled her streets with the slain.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Your slain whom you have laid in her midst, they are the flesh, and she is the pot. But I will bring you forth out of her midst.
You have feared the sword, but I will bring a sword on you, says the Lord Jehovah.
And I will bring you out of her midst and will give you into the hand of strangers. And I will execute judgments against you.
You shall fall by the sword. I will judge you to the border of Israel, and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
This city shall not be for a pot to you, nor shall you be in its midst for flesh. But I will judge you in the border of Israel,
and you shall know that I am Jehovah in whose statutes you have not walked. Yea, you have not done My judgments. Yea, as the judgments of the nations who are around you, you have done.
And it happened when I prophesied, Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, died. Then I fell on my face and cried with a loud voice and said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! Will you make an full end of the remnant of Israel?
And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, your brothers, your brothers, the men of your redemption, and all the house of Israel, all of them who have said to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Go far away from Jehovah, this land is given to us for a possession.
Therefore, say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Though I have sent them far off among the nations, and though I scattered them among the lands, yet I was to them as a little sanctuary in the countries there where they had gone.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: I shall gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the lands, in those where you were scattered, and I shall give to you the land of Israel.
And they will come there, and they will remove all its hateful things and all its abominations from it.
And I shall give to them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. And I will remove the stony heart out of their flesh, and I will give them a heart of flesh,
so that they may walk in My statutes and keep My judgments, and do them. And they shall be to Me for a people, and I will be to them for God.
And as to those whose heart is going after their hateful things, and also their heart is after their disgusting idols, I will give their way on their heads, declares the Lord Jehovah.
Then the cherubs lifted up their wings, and the wheels were beside them. And the glory of the God of Israel was over them from above.
And the glory of Jehovah went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain which is on the east of the city.
And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into Chaldea, to the exiles, in a vision by the Spirit of God. And the vision that I had seen went up from me.
And I spoke to the exiles all the things which Jehovah had shown me.