Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in Me.
In My Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to Myself, so that where I am, you may be also.
And where I go you know, and the way you know.
Thomas said to Him, Lord, we do not know where You go, and how can we know the way?
Jesus said to him, I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life; no one comes to the Father but by Me.
If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also. And from now on you know Him and have seen Him.
Philip said to Him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.
Jesus said to him, Have I been with you such a long time and yet you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father. And how do you say, Show us the Father?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in Me? The words that I speak to you I do not speak of Myself, but the Father who dwells in Me, He does the works.
Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father in Me, or else believe Me for the very works themselves.
Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes on Me, the works that I do he shall do also, and greater works than these he shall do, because I go to My Father.
And whatever you may ask in My name, that I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you ask anything in My name, I will do it.
If you love Me, keep My commandments.
And I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, so that He may be with you forever,
the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not see Him nor know Him. But you know Him, for He dwells with you and shall be in you.
I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you.
Yet a little while and the world does not see Me any more. But you see Me. Because I live, you shall live also.
At that day you shall know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
He who has My commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves Me. And he who loves Me shall be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will reveal Myself to him.
Judas (not Iscariot) said to Him, Lord, how is it that You will reveal Yourself to us and not to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, If a man loves Me, he will keep My Word. And My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make Our abode with him.
He who does not love Me does not keep My words, and the Word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father's who sent Me.
I have spoken these things to you, being present with you.
But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit whom the Father will send in My name, He shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance, whatever I have said to you.
Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
You have heard how I said to you, I go away and I am coming to you again. If you loved Me, you would rejoice because I said, I go to the Father, for My Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens you might believe.
I shall no longer speak many things with you, for the ruler of this world comes, and he has nothing in Me.
But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father has given Me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go away from here.