And he said to Moses, Come up to Jehovah, thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship ye afar off.
And Moses alone shall come near to Jehovah, but they shall not come near, neither shall the people go up with him.
And Moses came and told the people all the words of Jehovah, and all the ordinances. And all the people answered with one voice, and said, All the words which Jehovah has spoken will we do.
And Moses wrote all the words of Jehovah, and rose up early in the morning, and built an altar below the mount, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
And he sent young men of the sons of Israel, who offered burnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to Jehovah.
And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.
And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people. And they said, All that Jehovah has spoken will we do, and be obedient.
And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold the blood of the covenant that Jehovah has made with you concerning all these words.
Then Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up.
And they saw the God of Israel. And there was under his feet as it were a paved work of sapphire stone, and as it were the very heaven for clearness.
And he laid not his hand upon the nobles of the sons of Israel. And they beheld God, and ate and drank.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Come up to me onto the mount, and be there, and I will give thee the tablets of stone, and the law and the commandment, which I have written, that thou may teach them.
And Moses rose up, and Joshua his minister, and Moses went up onto the mount of God.
And he said to the elders, Tarry ye here for us, until we come again to you. And, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you; whoever has a case, let him come near to them.
And Moses went up onto the mount, and the cloud covered the mount.
And the glory of Jehovah abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. And the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
And the appearance of the glory of Jehovah was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the sons of Israel.
And Moses entered into the midst of the cloud, and went up onto the mount. And Moses was on the mount forty days and forty nights.