In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
He was in the beginning with God.
All things came into being through Him, and without Him not even one thing came into being that has come into being.
In Him was life, and the life was the light of men;
and the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overtake it.
There was a man sent from God; his name was John.
He came for a witness, that he might witness concerning the Light, that all might believe through Him.
He was not that Light, but that he might witness concerning the Light.
He was the true Light; He enlightens every man coming into the world.
He was in the world, and the world came into being through Him, yet the world did not know Him.
He came to His own, and His own did not receive Him.
But as many as received Him, to them He gave authority to become children of God, to the ones believing into His name,
who were born not of bloods, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but were born of God.
And the Word became flesh and tabernacled among us. And we beheld His glory, glory as of an only begotten from the Father, full of grace and of truth.
John witnesses concerning Him, and has cried out, saying, This One was He of whom I said, He coming after me has been before me, for He was preceding me.
And out of His fullness we all received, and grace on top of grace.
For the Law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
No one has seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, that One reveals Him .
And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites that they might ask him, Who are you?
And he acknowledged and did not deny; yea, he acknowledged, I am not the Christ.
And they asked him, What, then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the Prophet? And he answered, No.
Then they said to him, Who are you, that we may give an answer to those sending us? What do you say about yourself?
He said, "I am a voice crying in the wilderness:" "Make straight" "the way of the Lord," as Isaiah the prophet said. Isa. 40:3
And those who had been sent were of the Pharisees.
And they asked him and said to him, Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?
John answered them, saying, I baptize in water, but One stands in your midst whom you do not know;
This One it is who has come after me, who has been before me, of whom I am not worthy that I should loose the thong of His sandal.
These things took place in Bethabara beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
On the morrow, John sees Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold! The Lamb of God, taking away the sin of the world!
This is He about whom I said, After me comes a Man who has been before me, for He was preceding me.
And I did not know Him; but that He be revealed to Israel, for this reason I came baptizing in water.
And John witnessed, saying, I have seen the Spirit coming down as a dove out of Heaven, and He abode on Him.
And I did not know Him, but the One sending me to baptize in water, that One said to me, On whomever you see the Spirit coming down and abiding on Him, this is the One baptizing in the Holy Spirit.
And I have seen and have witnessed that this One is the Son of God.
Again on the morrow, John and two from his disciples stood.
And looking at Jesus walking, he said, Behold, the Lamb of God!
And the two disciples heard him speaking, and they followed Jesus.
But having seen them following, Jesus said to them, What do you seek? And they said to Him, Rabbi (which being translated is called Teacher), where do You stay?
He said to them, Come and see. They went and saw where He stayed, and they remained with Him that day. And the hour was about the tenth.
Andrew the brother of Simon Peter was one of the two who heard from John and was following Him.
This one first found his own brother Simon and tells him, We have found the Messiah (which being translated is, the Christ).
And he led him to Jesus. And looking at him, Jesus said, You are Simon the son of Jonah; you shall be called Cephas (which translated is Peter).
And on the morrow, Jesus desired to go out into Galilee. And He found Philip, and says to him, Follow me!
And Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip finds Nathanael and said to him, We have found the One of whom Moses wrote in the Law and the Prophets, Jesus the son of Joseph, from Nazareth.
And Nathanael said to him, Can any good thing be out of Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see.
Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward Him and said concerning him, Behold, truly an Israelite in whom is no guile!
Nathanael said to Him, From where do You know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called, you being under the fig tree, I saw you.
Nathanael answered and said to Him, Rabbi, You are the Son of God; You are the King of Israel.
Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to you I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these.
And He says to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, from now on you will see Heaven opened, and "the angels of God ascending and descending" on the Son of man. Gen. 28:12