After these things, Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth;
and finding a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, who had lately come from Italy, with Priscilla his wife, because Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome, he went to them;
and because he was of the same trade, he made his home with them, and worked: for by trade they were tent-makers.
But on every sabbath, he reasoned in the synagogue, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks.
And when Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul was roused in spirit, and earnestly testified to the Jews, that the Christ was Jesus.
But when they set themselves in opposition, and reviled, he shook his clothing, and said to them: Your blood be upon your own head; I am clean. Henceforth I will go to the Gentiles.
And he departed thence, and went into the house of a certain man named Justus, who worshiped God, and whose house joined the synagogue.
But Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord, with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing, believed, and were immersed.
And the Lord spoke to Paul by a vision in the night: Fear not; but speak, and be not silent;
for I am with you, and no one shall make an assault upon you, to injure you; for I have many people in this city.
And he remained there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them
But while Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews, with one mind, suddenly came upon Paul, and brought him to the judgment-seat,
saying: This man persuades men to worship God contrary to the law.
But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: If it were a matter of injustice, or of wicked mischief, O Jews, I would, with reason, bear with you:
but if it is a question about a word, and names, and your law, see to it yourselves: for I will not be a judge of these tilings.
And he drove them from the judgment-seat.
And all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment-seat. And Gallio cared for none of these things.
And Paul, having remained many days longer, took leave of the brethren, and sailed to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila, having shorn his head in Cenchrea; for he had a vow.
And he came to Ephesus, and left them there; but he himself went into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.
And though they besought him to remain with them a longer time, he did not consent,
but took leave of them, saying: I must, by all means, keep this coming feast in Jerusalem: but I will return to you, if God be willing. And he sailed from Ephesus,
and having landed at Cæsarea, and gone up and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch.
And having spent some time there, he departed, and went through the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
And a certain Jew, named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, an eloquent man, and mighty in the Scriptures, came to Ephesus.
He was instructed in the way of the Lord; and, being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things of the Lord, knowing only the immersion of John.
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. But when Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him, and taught him the way of God more accurately.
And when he wished to pass into Achaia, the brethren, exhorting him, wrote to the disciples to receive him. And when he had come, he gave much help to the believers, through the grace conferred on him.
For, with great strength, he utterly confounded the Jews publicly, showing, by the Scriptures, that the Christ was Jesus.