Behold, the day of the LORD comes, and your spoil shall be divided in your midst.
For I will gather all nations to battle against Jerusalem; and the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped. And half of the city shall go into exile, and the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city.
And the LORD shall go out and fight against those nations, like the day He fought in the day of battle.
And His feet shall stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall divide from its middle, from the east and to the west, a very great valley. And half of the mountain shall move toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
And you shall flee to the valley of My mountains; for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal. And you shall flee as you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. And the LORD my God shall come, and all the saints with you.
And it will be in that day, there shall not be light; the glorious ones shall shrink.
And it will be one day which shall be known to the LORD, neither day nor night; but it will happen that at evening time it shall be light.
And it shall be in that day, living waters shall go out from Jerusalem; half of them shall go toward the eastern sea, and half of them toward the western sea. In summer and in winter it shall be.
And the LORD shall be King over all the earth; in that day there shall be one LORD, and His name shall be one.
All the land shall be turned as a plain from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem. And it shall rise and dwell in its place, from Benjamin's Gate to the place of the First Gate; to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananeel to the king's winepresses.
And they shall dwell in it, and there shall never again be a shutting in, but Jerusalem shall dwell safely.
And this shall be the plague with which the LORD will strike all the peoples who have fought against Jerusalem. Their flesh shall rot while they stand on their feet, and their eyes shall rot in their sockets. And their tongue shall rot in their mouth.
And it shall be in that day a great panic of the LORD shall be among them And they shall each one lay hold of his neighbor, and his hand shall rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the nations all around shall be gathered, gold, and silver, and clothing in great abundance.
And so shall be the plague of the horse, the mule, the camel, and the ass, and of all the beasts which shall be in these tents, like this plague.
And it shall be, everyone who is left of all the nations which came up against Jerusalem shall go up from year to year to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, and to keep the Feast of Tabernacles.
And it shall be, whoever will not come up from all the families of the earth to Jerusalem to worship the King, Jehovah of hosts, even on them shall be no rain.
And if the family of Egypt does not go up, and nor come in, they shall have no rain, but the plague with which the LORD shall strike the nations who do not come up to keep the Feast of Tabernacles.
This shall be Egypt's offense, and the offense of all the nations who do not come up to keep the Feast of Tabernacles.
In that day there shall be on the bells of the horses, HOLY TO THE LORD. And the pots in the LORD's house shall be like the bowls before the altar.
Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holy to the LORD of hosts. And all those who sacrifice shall come and take of them, and boil in them. And in that day there shall no longer be a trader in the house of the LORD of hosts.