But concerning the spiritual things, brothers, I do not wish you to be ignorant.
You know that being led away, you nations were led to dumb idols.
Because of this I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, Jesus is a curse. And no one is able to say Jesus is Lord, except by the Holy Spirit.
And there are differences of gifts, but the same Spirit;
and there are differences of ministries, yet the same Lord.
And there are differences of workings, but the same God is working all things in all.
And to each one is given the showing forth of the Spirit to our profit.
For through the Spirit is given to one a word of wisdom, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
and to another, faith by the same Spirit, and to another, gifts of healing by the same Spirit,
and to another, workings of powers, and to another, prophecy, and to another, discerning of spirits, and to another, kinds of languages, and to another, interpretation of languages.
But the one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing separately to each as He wills.
Even as the body is one, and has many members, but all the members of the one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ.
For also we all were baptized by one Spirit into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, even all were given to drink into one Spirit.
For also the body is not one member, but many.
If the foot says, Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body, on account of this, is it not of the body?
And if the ear says, Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, on account of this, is it not of the body?
If all the body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If all hearing, where the smelling?
But now God set the members, each one of them, in the body, even as He desired.
But if all was one member, where would the body be ?
But now, indeed, many are the members, but one body.
And the eye is not able to say to the hand, I have no need of you; or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
But much rather the members of the body seeming to be weaker are necessary.
And those of the body we think to be less honorable, to these we put more abundant honor around them . And our unpresentable members have more abundant propriety.
But our presentable members have no need. But God tempered the body together, giving more abundant honor to the member having need,
that there not be division in the body, but that the members might have the same care for one another.
And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it . If one member is glorified, all the members rejoice with it .
And you are Christ's body, and members in part.
And God placed some in the church: firstly apostles; secondly, prophets; thirdly, teachers; then works of power; then gifts of healing, helps, governings, kinds of languages.
Are all apostles? All prophets? All teachers? All workers of power?
Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak languages? Do all interpret?
But zealously strive after the better gifts. And yet I show you a way according to excellence: