It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom a hundred and twenty satraps, who should be throughout the whole kingdom,
and over them three presidents, of whom Daniel was one, that these satraps might give account to them, and that the king should have no damage.
Then this Daniel was distinguished above the presidents and the satraps, because an excellent spirit was in him, and the king thought to set him over the whole realm.
Then the presidents and the satraps sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find no occasion nor fault, inasmuch as he was faithful, nor was there any error or fault found in him.
Then these men said, We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel unless we find it against him concerning the law of his God.
Then these presidents and satraps assembled together to the king, and said thus to him: King Darius, live forever.
All the presidents of the kingdom, the deputies and the satraps, the counselors and the governors, have consulted together to establish a royal statute, and to make a strong interdict, that whoever shall ask a petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.
Now, O king, establish the interdict, and sign the writing, that it be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which does not alter.
Therefore king Darius signed the writing and the interdict.
And when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house (now his windows were open in his chamber toward Jerusalem) and he knelt upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did formerly.
Then these men assembled together, and found Daniel making petition and supplication before his God.
Then they came near, and spoke before the king concerning the king's interdict. Have thou not signed an interdict, that every man who shall make petition to any god or man within thirty days, except to thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered and said, The thing is true according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which does not alter.
Then they answered and said before the king, That Daniel, who is of the sons of the captivity of Judah, does not regard thee, O king, nor the interdict that thou have signed, but makes his petition three times a day.
Then the king, when he heard these words, was very displeased, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him. And he labored till the going down of the sun to rescue him.
Then these men assembled together to the king, and said to the king, Know, O king, that it is a law of the Medes and Persians, that no interdict nor statute which the king establishes may be changed.
Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. Now the king spoke and said to Daniel, Thy God whom thou serve continually, he will deliver thee.
And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den. And the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his lords, that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel.
Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting, nor were instruments of music brought before him. And his sleep fled from him.
Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste to the den of lions.
And when he came near to the den to Daniel, he cried with a lamentable voice. The king spoke and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou serve continually, able to deliver thee from the lions?
Then Daniel said to the king, O king, live forever.
My God has sent his agent, and has shut the lions' mouths, and they have not hurt me, inasmuch as before him innocence was found in me. And also before thee, O king, I have done no harm.
Then the king was exceedingly glad, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of harm was found upon him, because he had trusted in his God.
And the king commanded, and they brought those men who had accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their sons, and their wives. And the lions had the mastery of them, and broke all their bones in pieces, before they came to the bottom of the den.
Then king Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages, who dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied to you.
I make a decree, that in all the dominion of my kingdom men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel, for he is the living God, and steadfast forever. And his kingdom is that which shall not be destroyed, and his dominion shall be even to the end.
He delivers and rescues, and he works signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions.
So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian.