And going on board a boat, he crossed over, and came to his own city.
And lo! they brought to him a man that was palsied, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the palsied man, Be of good cheer, son; thy sins are forgiven.
And lo! some of the scribes said within themselves, This man is blaspheming.
And Jesus seeing their thoughts, said, Wherefore have ye evil thoughts in your hearts?
For which is easier? to say, Thy sins are forgiven? or to say, Arise, and walk?
But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath authority on earth to forgive sins,—then he saith to the palsied man,—Arise, take up thy bed, and go to thy house.
And he arose, and went away to his house.
And when the multitudes saw it, they were struck with fear, and gave glory to God, who had given such power to men.
And as Jesus passed on from thence, he saw a man, named Matthew, sitting at the custom-house; and he saith to him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him.
And it came to pass, as he was reclining at table in the house, lo! many publicans and sinners came and reclined with Jesus and his disciples.
And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to his disciples, Why doth your teacher eat with the publicans and sinners?
But when he heard that, he said, They who are well do not need a physician, but they who are sick.
But go ye and learn what this meaneth: "I desire mercy, and not sacrifice." For I came not to call righteous men, but sinners.
Then came to him the disciples of John, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast, and thy disciples fast not?
And Jesus said to them, Can the companions of the bridegroom mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come, when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then will they fast.
No one putteth a patch of undressed cloth on an old garment; for the piece that filleth in teareth away from the garment, and a worse rent is made.
Nor do men put new wine into old skins; else the skins burst, and the wine runneth out, and the skins are spoilt. But they put new wine into new skins, and both are preserved together.
While he was thus speaking to them, lo! a certain ruler came in and bowed down before him, saying, My daughter just now died; but come and lay thy hand upon her, and she will live.
And Jesus arose and followed him, with his disciples.
And, lo! a woman, who had had an issue of blood for twelve years, came up behind, and touched the fringe of his garment.
For she said within herself, If I only touch his garment, I shall be made well.
And he turned round, and seeing her, said, Be of good cheer, daughter; thy faith hath made thee well. And the woman was made well from that hour.
And Jesus coming into the ruler’s house, and seeing the minstrels, and the crowd making a noise,
said, Withdraw; for the girl is not dead, but is sleeping. And they laughed him to scorn.
But when the crowd had been put out, he went in, and took hold of her hand; and the girl arose.
And the report of this went abroad into all that country.
And as Jesus passed on from thence, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, Have pity on us, Son of David!
And when he had come into the house, the blind men came to him; and Jesus saith to them, Do ye believe that I am able to do this? They say to him, Yea, Lord.
Then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it done to you.
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly charged them, saying, See that no one know it.
But they went out, and spread abroad his fame in all that country.
And as they were going out, lo! they brought to him a dumb man, possessed by a demon.
And when the demon was cash out, the dumb man spoke. And the multitudes marveled, saying, Never was the like seen in Israel.
But the Pharisees said, He casteth out the demons through the prince of the demons.
And Jesus went round all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the glad tidings of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease.
And seeing the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were harassed and scattered about, as sheep having no shepherd.
Then he saith to his disciples, The harvest indeed is great, but the laborers are few.
Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send forth laborers for his harvest.