A Psalme of Asaph. The God of Gods, euen the Lord hath spoken and called the earth from the rising vp of the sunne vnto the going downe thereof.
Out of Zion, which is the perfection of beautie, hath God shined.
Our God shall come and shall not keepe silence: a fire shall deuoure before him, and a mightie tempest shall be mooued round about him.
Hee shall call the heauen aboue, and the earth to iudge his people.
Gather my Saints together vnto me, those that make a couenant with me with sacrifice.
And the heauens shall declare his righteousnes: for God is iudge himselfe. Selah.
Heare, O my people, and I wil speake: heare, O Israel, and I wil testifie vnto thee: for I am God, euen thy God.
I wil not reproue thee for thy sacrifices, or thy burnt offerings, that haue not bene continually before me.
I will take no bullocke out of thine house, nor goates out of thy foldes.
For all the beastes of the forest are mine, and the beastes on a thousand mountaines.
I knowe all the foules on the mountaines: and the wilde beastes of the fielde are mine.
If I bee hungry, I will not tell thee: for the world is mine, and all that therein is.
Will I eate the flesh of bulles? or drinke the blood of goates?
Offer vnto God praise, and pay thy vowes vnto the most High,
And call vpon me in the day of trouble: so will I deliuer thee, and thou shalt glorifie me.
But vnto the wicked said God, What hast thou to doe to declare mine ordinances, that thou shouldest take my couenant in thy mouth,
Seeing thou hatest to bee reformed, and hast cast my wordes behinde thee?
For when thou seest a thiefe, thou runnest with him, and thou art partaker with the adulterers.
Thou giuest thy mouth to euill, and with thy tongue thou forgest deceit.
Thou sittest, and speakest against thy brother, and slanderest thy mothers sonne.
These things hast thou done, and I held my tongue: therefore thou thoughtest that I was like thee: but I will reproue thee, and set them in order before thee.
Oh cosider this, ye that forget God, least I teare you in pieces, and there be none that can deliuer you.
He that offereth praise, shall glorifie mee: and to him, that disposeth his way aright, will I shew the saluation of God.