And on the first day of the week, very early morning, they came to the sepulcher bringing the spices that they prepared, and some women with them.
And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher.
And having entered in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass while they were bewildered about this, that behold, two men stood near them in shining apparel.
And since they became frightened and bowing down their face to the ground, they said to them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?
He is not here, but was raised. Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee,
saying that the Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day to rise.
And they remembered his sayings.
And having returned from the sepulcher, they reported all these things to the eleven, and to all the others.
Now they were Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles.
And their sayings appeared before them as idle talk, and they disbelieved them.
But having risen, Peter ran to the sepulcher. And having stooped down, he sees the linen cloths laying alone. And he departed, wondering to himself at that which happened.
And behold, two of them were going the same day to a village that was sixty furlongs away from Jerusalem, which name was Emmaus.
And they conversed with each other about all these things that happened.
And it came to pass, while they conversed and discussed, that Jesus himself also having approached, went along with them.
But their eyes were held, not to recognize him.
And he said to them, What are these words that ye toss back to each other, while walking and are looking sad.
And one, whose name was Cleopas, having answered, said to him, Thou only visit Jerusalem and do not know the things that happened in it during these days?
And he said to them, What? And they said to him, The things about Jesus the Nazarene, who became a prophet, a mighty man in work and word before God and all the people,
and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up for condemnation of death, and crucified him.
But we hoped that he is the man who is going to redeem Israel. But even with all these things, it brings this third day today from which time these things happened.
But also some of our women astonished us, having come to be at the sepulcher early morning.
And not having found his body, they came, saying also to have seen a vision of agents who say he is alive.
And some of those with us went to the sepulcher, and found it this way, just as also the women said, but they did not see him.
And he said to them, O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets spoke.
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory?
And having begun from Moses and from all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things about himself.
And they came near to the village where they were going, and he pretended to go further.
And they constrained him, saying, Remain with us, because it is toward evening, and the day has declined. And he went in to remain with them.
And it came to pass during his dining with them, that, having taken the bread, he blessed, and having broken in pieces he gave to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he became invisible from them.
And they said to each other, Was not our heart burning within us while he spoke to us on the way, while he opened to us the scriptures?
And having risen up the same hour, they returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven gathered together,
and those who were with them who said, The Lord really was raised, and was seen by Simon.
And they reported the things on the road, and how he was made known to them during the breaking of the bread.
And as they spoke these things, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and says to them, Peace to you.
But having been startled, and having become frightened, they presumed to see a spirit.
And he said to them, Why are ye troubled, and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?
See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, because a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as ye see me having.
And having said this, he displayed to them his hands and feet.
And while they still disbelieved from joy and wondering, he said to them, Have ye anything to eat here?
And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish and from a bees honeycomb.
And having taken it, he ate before them.
And he said to them, These are the words that I spoke to you while still being with you, that it is necessary for all things that are written in the law of Moses, and the prophets, and the psalms about me to be fulfilled.
Then he opened their mind to understand the scriptures.
And he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day,
and to proclaim in his name repentance and remission of sins for all the nations, having begun from Jerusalem.
And ye are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I send forth the promise of my Father upon you. But stay ye in the city until ye are clothed with power from on high.
And he led them outside as far as to Bethany, and having lifted up his hands, he blessed them.
And it came to pass while he blessed them, he parted from them, and was brought up into heaven.
And having worshiping him, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
and they were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Truly.