Beginning of the glad-message of Jesus Christ.
According as it is written in Isaiah the prophet—Lo! I send my messenger before thy face, Who shall prepare thy way,—
A voice of one crying aloud—In the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, straight, be making his paths.
John the Immerser came, in the wilderness, proclaiming an immersion of repentance for remission of sins;
and there were going out unto him all the Judaea country and all they of Jerusalem, and were being immersed by him in the Jordan river, openly confessing their sins;
and John was clothed with camel’s-hair and a leathern girdle about his loins, and was eating locusts and wild honey;
and he proclaimed, saying—He that is mightier than I cometh after [me], of whom I am not worthy to stoop and unloose the strap of his sandals:
I, have immersed you, with water,—He, will immerse you, with the Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass, in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was immersed into the Jordan by John;
And, straightway, as he was coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens rending asunder, and, the Spirit, as a dove, descending unto him;
and a voice [came] out of the heavens—Thou, art my Son, the Beloved,—In thee, I delight.
And, straightway, the Spirit urgeth him forth into the wilderness;
and he was in the wilderness, forty days, tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts,—and, the messengers, were ministering unto him.
And after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the glad-message of God,
[and saying]—The season is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God hath drawn near,—Repent ye, and have faith in the glad-message.
And, passing by near the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon, and Andrew the brother of Simon, casting a net in the sea,—for they were fishers;
and Jesus said unto them—Come after me, and I will make you become fishers of men;
and, straightway, leaving the nets, they followed him.
And, going forward a little, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, and them who were in the boat putting in order the nets;
and, straightway, he called them,—and, leaving their father Zebedee in the boat, with the hired men, they came away after him.
And they journey into Capernaum. And, straightway, on the Sabbath, entering into the synagogue, he began teaching;
and they were being struck with astonishment at his teaching,—for he was teaching them as one having authority, and, not as the Scribes.
And, straightway, there was in their synagogue, a man in an impure spirit,—and he cried out aloud,
saying—What have we in common with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? Hast thou come to destroy us? I know thee, who thou art, The Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, [saying]—Be silenced, and come forth out of him!
And the impure spirit, tearing him, and calling out with a loud voice, came forth out of him;
and they were amazed, one and all, so that they began to discuss among themselves, saying—What is this? New teaching! With authority, to the impure spirits also, he giveth orders, and they obey him!
And forth went the report of him, straightway, on every hand, into the surrounding country of Galilee.
And, straightway, out of the synagogue, going forth, he went unto the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Now, the mother-in-law of Simon, was lying in a fever, and, straightway, they speak to him concerning her;
and, coming near, he raised her up, grasping her hand,—and the fever left her, and she began ministering unto them.
And, evening arriving, when the sun went in, they were bearing unto him all who were sick, and them who were demonized;
and all the city was gathered unto the door;
and he cured many that were sick with divers diseases, and, many demons, he cast out, and suffered not the demons to be talking,—because they knew him [to be Christ].
And, very early by night arising, he went out [and departed] into a desert place, and, there, was praying;
and Simon, and they who were with him, went in quest of him,
and found him, and say unto him—All, are seeking thee;
and he saith unto them—Let us be going elsewhere, into the neighbouring country-towns, in order that, there also, I may be making proclamation,—for, to this end, came I forth;
and he came, making proclamation, into their synagogues, throughout the whole of Galilee,—and, was casting the demons out.
And there cometh unto him, a leper, beseeching him and [kneeling],—saying unto him—If thou be willing, thou canst cleanse me;
and, moved with compassion, he stretched forth the hand, and touched him, and saith unto him—I am willing, Be cleansed!
and, straightway, the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed;
and, strictly charging him, straightway, he urged him forth;
and saith unto him—Mind! unto no one, say aught,—but withdraw, thyself, show unto the priest, and offer for thy cleansing what things Moses enjoined, for a witness unto them.
But, he, going forth, began to be proclaiming many things, and blazing abroad the story, so that, no longer, was it possible for him, openly, into a city, to enter,—but, outside, in desert places, [was he], and they were coming unto him from every quarter.