Lo, Jehovah empties the land and makes it bare, and distorts its face, and scatters its inhabitants.
And as it is with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with the master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the creditor, so with the debtor.
The land shall completely be emptied and utterly stripped, for Jehovah has spoken this word.
The land mourns and languishes; the world droops and languishes; the proud people of the earth droop.
And the earth is profaned under its inhabitants, because they transgress laws and violate a statute, and break the everlasting covenant.
On account of this a curse has devoured the land; and they who live in it are held guilty. For this the dwellers of the land are consumed, and few men are left.
The new wine has failed; the vine droops; all the merry-hearted sigh.
The joy of timbrels ceases; the noise of those who revel ends; the joy of the harp ceases.
They shall not drink wine with a song; fermented drink shall be bitter to those who drink it.
The city of shame is broken down; every house is shut, that no one may enter.
A crying over the wine is in the streets; all joy is darkened; the gladness in the land is carried away.
Desolation is remaining in the city, and a ruin; the gate is battered.
For it is thus in the midst of the land, among the peoples, it shall be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as gleanings when the grape harvest is completed.
They lift up their voice; they sing for the majesty of Jehovah; they cry aloud from the sea.
On account of this, glorify Jehovah in the flames, the name of Jehovah God of Israel, in the coasts of the sea.
We have heard songs from the end of the earth, Honor to the Righteous. But I said, Leanness to me! Leanness to me! Woe to me! Traitors betray, even perfidy; traitors betray!
Dread, and the pit, and a snare are upon you, dweller of the earth.
And it shall be, he who flees from the sound of dread shall fall into the pit. And he who comes up out of the middle of the pit shall be taken in the snare. For the windows from on high are opened, and the earth's foundations quake.
The earth is breaking, breaking! The earth is crashing, crashing! The earth is tottering, tottering.
Like a drunkard, the earth is staggering, staggering! And it rocks to and fro like a hut. And its trespass is heavy on it; and it shall fall, and not rise again.
And it shall be in that day, Jehovah shall punish the army of the high place on high, and on the kings of the land on the land.
And they will be gathered, a gathering of prisoners in a dungeon. And they shall be shut up in a prison; and after many days they will be visited.
Then the moon shall blush, and the sun shall be ashamed, when Jehovah of Hosts shall reign in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem; and before His elders is His glory .