Then came David to Nob, unto Ahimelech, the priest,—and Ahimelech trembled when he met David, and said unto him—Why art thou, alone, and, no man, with thee?
And David said unto Ahimelech the priest—The king, hath charged me with a matter, and hath said unto me—Let, no man, know aught of the business on which I am sending thee, and with which I have charged thee,—But, unto the young men, have I appointed, such and such a place.
Now, therefore, what is there under thy hand? Five loaves, give thou into my hand,—or, whatever can be found.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand,—but, hallowed bread, there is, if the young men have kept themselves, at least from women.
And David answered the priest and said to him—Of a truth, women, have been withheld from us, of late, through my coming out, and the wallets of the young men have become hallowed,—while [the bread], itself, is in a manner common, and the more so since, to-day, [there are other loaves] to be hallowed, in the vessel.
So the priest gave him hallowed [bread],—because there was there no bread, save the Presence-Bread, which had to be removed from before Yahweh, to put hot bread, on the day when it should be taken away.
Now, in that very place, was a man of the servants of Saul, on that day, detained before Yahweh, whose name, was Doeg the Edomite,—chief of the shepherds that belonged unto Saul.
Then said David to Ahimelech, See whether there is here, under thy hand, a spear or a sword? for, neither my sword, nor my other weapons, did I take in my hand, for, the king’s business, was, urgent.
And the priest said: The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou didst smite in the vale of Elah, lo! that, is wrapped up in a cloth, behind the ephod, if, that, thou wilt take to thee, take it, for there is no other, save that, here. And David said—There is none, like it, give it me.
Then arose David, and fled, that day, from the face of Saul,—and came in unto Achish, king of Gath.
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not, this, David, king of the land? Was it not, of this man, that they kept responding in the dances, saying, Saul, hath smitten his, thousands, but, David, his, tens of thousands?
And David laid up these words in his heart,—and feared greatly, because of Achish king of Gath.
So he feigned himself mad, in their sight, and raged in their hand,—and struck against the doors of the gate, and let his spittle run down upon his beard.
Then said Achish unto his servants,—Lo! ye can see, a madman playing his pranks, wherefore should ye bring him in, unto me?
Lacking of madmen, am I that ye should bring in this one to play his mad pranks, unto me? Shall, this, one enter my household?