Hear the word of Jehovah, ye sons of Israel, for Jehovah has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God in the land.
There is nothing but swearing and breaking faith, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery. They break out, and blood touches blood.
Therefore the land shall mourn, and everyone who dwells in it shall languish with the beasts of the field and the birds of the heavens. Yea, the fishes of the sea shall also be taken away.
Yet, let no man strive, nor let any man reprove, for thy people are as those who strive with the priest.
And thou shall stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with thee in the night. And I will destroy thy mother.
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Because thou have rejected knowledge, I also will reject thee, that thou shall be no priest to me. Since thou have forgotten the law of thy God, I also will forget thy sons.
As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me. I will change their glory into shame.
They feed on the sin of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity.
And it shall be, like people, like priest. And I will punish them for their ways, and will requite them their doings.
And they shall eat, and not have enough. They shall play the harlot, and shall not increase, because they have left off taking heed to Jehovah.
Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the understanding.
My people ask counsel at their stock, and their staff declares to them, for the spirit of whoredom has caused them to err, and they have played the harlot, departing from under their God.
They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, because the shadow of it is good. Therefore your daughters play the harlot, and your brides commit adultery.
I will not punish your daughters when they play the harlot, nor your brides when they commit adultery. For themselves go apart with harlots, and they sacrifice with the prostitutes. And the people who do not understand shall be overthrown.
Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend, and come not ye to Gilgal, nor go ye up to Beth-aven, nor swear, As Jehovah lives.
For Israel has behaved himself stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer. Now Jehovah will feed them as a lamb in a large place.
Ephraim is joined to idols, let him alone.
Their drink has become sour. They play the harlot continually. Her rulers dearly love shame.
The wind has wrapped her up in its wings, and they shall be put to shame because of their sacrifices.