O foolish Galatians, who bewitched you not to obey the truth, to whom before your eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed among you, crucified?
This only I desire to learn from you: Did you receive the Spirit by works of law or by hearing of faith?
Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, do you now perfect yourself in the flesh?
Did you suffer so much vainly, if indeed it also was vainly?
Then He supplying the Spirit to you and working works of power in you, is it by works of law or by hearing of faith?
Even "as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness." Gen 15:6
Know, then, that those of faith, these are sons of Abraham.
And the Scripture foreseeing that God would justify the nations by faith, preached the gospel before to Abraham: "All the nations will be blessed" "in you." Gen. 12:3
So that those of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham.
For as many as are out of works of law, these are under a curse. For it has been written, "Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things having been written in the book of the Law, to do them." Deut. 27:26
And that no one is justified by law before God is clear because, "The just shall live by faith." Hab. 2:4
But the Law is not of faith, but, "The man doing these things shall live in them." Lev. 18:5
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us; for it has been written, "Cursed is everyone having been hung on a tree;" Deut. 21:23
that the blessing of Abraham might be to the nations in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Brothers, I speak according to man, a covenant having been ratified, even among mankind, no one sets aside or adds to it .
But the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his Seed (it does not say, And to seeds, as of many, but as of one, "And to your Seed," which is Christ). Gen. 12:7, 13:15; 17:7, 8; 24:7
And I say this, A covenant having been ratified before to Christ by God, the Law coming into being four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul the promise, so as to abolish it .
For if the inheritance is of law, it is no more of promise; but God has given it to Abraham through promise.
Why the Law then? It was added because of transgressions, until the Seed should come, to whom it had been promised, being ordained through angels in a mediator's hand.
But the Mediator is not of one, but God is one.
Then is the Law against the promises of God? Let it not be! For if a law had been given which had been able to make alive, indeed righteousness would have been out of law.
But the Scripture locked up all under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to the ones believing.
But before the coming of faith, we were guarded under law, having been locked up to the faith being about to be revealed.
So that the Law has become a trainer of us until Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
But faith coming, we are no longer under a trainer;
for you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For as many as were baptized into Christ, you put on Christ.
There cannot be Jew nor Greek, there is no slave nor freeman, there is no male and female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if you are of Christ, then you are a seed of Abraham, even heirs according to promise.