The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
So speaks Jehovah, God of Israel, saying, Write for yourself all the words that I have spoken to you in a book.
For, lo, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will turn the captivity of My people Israel and Judah, says Jehovah; and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it.
And these are the words that Jehovah spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah:
For so says Jehovah, We have heard a sound of trembling, of dread, and not of peace.
Ask now and see whether a man is giving birth? Why do I see every man with his hands on his loins, like a woman in travail, and all faces are turned to paleness?
Alas! For that day is great, for none is like it. And it is a time of Jacob's trouble, but he will be saved out of it.
For it shall be in that day, says Jehovah of Hosts, I will break his yoke from your neck, and I will burst your bonds. And strangers will not again enslave him;
but they shall serve Jehovah their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up to them.
And you, O My servant Jacob, do not fear, says Jehovah. Do not be terrified, O Israel. For, lo, I will save you from afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity. And Jacob shall return, and have quiet, and be untroubled, and no one will make him afraid.
For I am with you, says Jehovah, to save you. Though I make a full end among all nations where I have scattered you, yet I will not make a full end with you. But I will correct you justly, and I will not leave you unpunished.
For so says Jehovah, Your break cannot be cured; your wound is grievous.
There is no one to plead your cause; for your ulcer there are no healing medicines for you.
All your lovers have forgotten you; they do not seek you. For I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, because of the greatness of your iniquity. Your sins are many.
Why do you cry out over your crushing? Your pain is incurable, for the greatness of your iniquity; your sins are many, so I have done these things to you.
Therefore, all those who devour you shall be devoured. And all your enemies, every one of them, shall go into captivity. And they who rob you shall be given for plunder; and all who strip you, I will give to be stripped.
For I will give health back to you, and I will heal you of your wounds, says Jehovah, because they called you, Outcast; saying , This is Zion; no one is seeking for her.
So says Jehovah, Behold I will turn the captivity of Jacob's tents and will have mercy on his dwelling places. And the city shall be built on her ruin heap; and the palace shall remain on its own place.
And out of them shall come thanksgiving and the voice of those who are merry. And I will multiply them, and they shall not be few. I also will honor them, and they shall not be small.
Also, his sons shall be as before, and his assembly shall be established before Me; and I will punish all who oppress them.
And his leader shall be from him, and his ruler shall come from among him. And I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach Me. For who is he who pledged his heart to come near to Me, says Jehovah?
And you shall be My people, and I will be your God.
Behold, the tempest of Jehovah: fury goes forth, a sweeping tempest; it shall swirl on the head of the wicked.
The fierce anger of Jehovah shall not turn back until He has finished, and until He has fulfilled the intentions of His heart. In latter days you will understand it.