And it happened, on the eighth day, Moses called for Aaron and for his sons, and for the elders of Israel.
And he said to Aaron, Take a calf to yourself, a son of the herd, for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, perfect ones, and bring near before Jehovah.
And speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Take a kid of the goats for a sin offering, and a calf, and a lamb, sons of a year, perfect ones, for a burnt offering;
and a bullock and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a food offering mixed with oil; for today Jehovah will appear to you.
And they took that which Moses had commanded to the front of the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the congregation drew near and stood before Jehovah.
And Moses said, This is the thing that Jehovah has commanded; do it , and the glory of Jehovah shall appear to you.
And Moses said to Aaron, Draw near to the altar and make your sin offering, and your burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself, and for the people, and make the offering of the people, and atone for them, as Jehovah has commanded.
And Aaron drew near to the altar and killed the calf of the sin offering, which is for himself;
and Aaron's sons brought the blood near to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar. And he poured out the blood at the base of the altar;
and the fat, and the kidneys, and the fold of the liver, of the sin offering, he burned with incense on the altar, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And he burned the flesh and the skin with fire, at the outside of the camp.
And he killed the burnt offering. And Aaron's sons presented the blood to him and he sprinkled it on the altar all around;
and they presented to him the burnt offering, by its pieces, and the head, and he burned them with incense on the altar.
And he washed the inward parts and the legs, and burned them as incense for the burnt offering on the altar.
And he brought the offering of the people, and took the goat of the sin offering which is for the people, and killed it, and made it a sin offering like the first.
And he brought the burnt offering, and offered it, according to the ordinance.
And he brought the food offering and filled his palm from it, and burned it as incense on the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning.
And he killed the bullock and the ram, a sacrifice of the peace offerings, which are for the people, and Aaron's sons presented the blood to him, and he sprinkled it on the altar all around;
and the fat of the bullock, and of the ram, the fat tail, and the covering, and the kidneys, and the fold above the liver.
And they set the fat on the breasts, and he burned as incense the fat on the altar.
And Aaron waved the breasts, and the right leg as a wave offering before Jehovah, as Moses commanded
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them, and came down from offering the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings.
And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation. And they came out and blessed the people; and the glory of Jehovah appeared to all the people.
And fire came out from before Jehovah and consumed the burnt offering and the fat on the altar. And all the people saw, and cried aloud, and fell on their faces.