As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not suitable for a fool.
As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse causeless shall not come.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool's back.
Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like unto him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
He that sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off the feet, and drinks damage.
The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
As he that binds a stone in a sling, so is he that gives honour to a fool.
As a thorn goes up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouths of fools.
The great God that formed all things both rewards the fool, and rewards transgressors.
As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool returns to his folly.
See you a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
The slothful man says, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.
As the door turns upon his hinges, so does the slothful upon his bed.
The slothful hides his hand in his bosom; it grieves him to bring it again to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.
He that passes by, and meddles with strife belonging not to him, is like one that takes a dog by the ears.
As a mad man who casts firebrands, arrows, and death,
So is the man that deceives his neighbour, and says, Am not I in sport?
Where no wood is, there the fire goes out: so where there is no talebearer, the strife ceases.
As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife.
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross.
He that hates dissembles with his lips, and lays up deceit within him;
When he speaks fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart.
Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be showed before the whole congregation.
Whoso digs a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolls a stone, it will return upon him.
A lying tongue hates those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth works ruin.