And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Command the sons of Israel and say unto them, When ye have entered into the land of Canaan (this [is] the land that shall fall unto you for an inheritance, [even] the land of Canaan according to its borders),
you shall have on the side of the Negev from the wilderness of Zin unto the borders of Edom, and your border towards the Negev shall be the outmost coast of the salt sea eastward.
And this border shall turn from the Negev to the ascent of Akrabbim and pass on to Zin, and the going forth thereof shall be from the Negev to Kadeshbarnea and shall go on to Hazaraddar and pass on to Azmon;
and the border shall fetch a compass from Azmon unto the river of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the [western] sea.
And [as for] the western border, ye shall even have the great sea for a border; this shall be your west border.
And this shall be your north border: from the great sea ye shall point out for you mount Hor.
From mount Hor ye shall point out [your border] unto the entrance of Hamath, and the goings forth of the border shall be to Zedad,
and the border shall go on to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be at Hazarenan; this shall be your north border.
And ye shall point out your east border from Hazarenan to Shepham,
and the border shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain, and the border shall descend and shall reach unto the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward.
And the border shall go down to the Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the salt sea; this shall be your land with the borders thereof round about.
And Moses commanded the sons of Israel, saying, This is the land which ye shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to give unto the nine tribes and to the half tribe,
because the tribe of the sons of Reuben, according to the houses of their fathers, and the tribe of the sons of Gad, according to the houses of their fathers, and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance.
The two tribes and the half tribe have received their inheritance on this side of the Jordan of Jericho eastward, toward the sunrising.
And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
These [are] the names of the men who shall divide the possession of the land for you: Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun.
And ye shall take one prince of every tribe to divide the possession of the land.
And the names of the men [are] these: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb, the son of Jephunneh.
And of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemuel, the son of Ammihud.
Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad, the son of Chislon.
And the of the tribe of the sons of Dan, the prince Bukki, the son of Jogli.
Of the sons of Joseph: of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, the prince Hanniel, the son of Ephod.
And of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim, the prince Kemuel, the son of Shiphtan.
And of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, the prince Elizaphan, the son of Parnach.
And of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, the prince Paltiel, the son of Azzan.
And of the tribe of the sons of Asher, the prince Ahihud, the son of Shelomi.
And of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, the prince Pedahel, the son of Ammihud.
These [are those] whom the LORD commanded to cause the sons of Israel to inherit the land of Canaan.: