Now, these, are the priests and the Levites, who came up with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua,—Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra;
Amariah, Malluch, Hattush;
Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth;
Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah;
Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah;
Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah;
Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah,—these, were the chiefs of the priests and their brethren, in the days of Jeshua.
And, the Levites, Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, Mattaniah,—over the choirs, he and his brethren;
and Bakbukiah and Unno their brethren, were over against them, in wards.
And Jeshua, begat Joiakim,—and Joiakim, begat Eliashib, and, Eliashib, [begat] Joiada;
and, Joiada, begat Jonathan,—and, Jonathan, begat Jaddua.
And, in the days of Joiakim, were priests, ancestral chiefs,—of Seraiah, Meraiah, of Jeremiah, Hananiah;
of Ezra, Meshullam,—of Amariah, Jehohanan;
of Malluchi, Jonathan,—of Shebaniah, Joseph;
of Harim, Adna,—of Meraioth, Helkai;
of Iddo, Zechariah,—of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
of Abijah, Zichri,—of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;
of Bilgah, Shammua,—of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
and, of Joiarib, Mattenai,—of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
of Sallai, Kallai,—of Amok, Eber;
of Hilkiah, Hashabiah,—of Jedaiah, Nethanel.
The Levites—in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, were recorded as ancestral chiefs,—also the priests, unto the reign of Darius the Persian.
the sons of Levi, ancestral heads, were written in the book of Chronicles,—even until the days of Johanan, son of Eliashib.
And, the chiefs of the Levites, Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua son of Kadmiel, with their brethren over against them, to praise—to give thanks, by the commandment of David the man of God,—ward joined to ward.
Mattaniah and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were watchers, doorkeepers of the ward, in the storehouses of the gates.
These, were in the days of Joiakim, son of Jeshua, son of Jozadak,—and in the days of Nehemiah the pasha, and Ezra the priest the scribe.
And, at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites, out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem,—to keep the dedication and the rejoicing, both with thanksgiving and with music, cymbals, harps, and with lyres.
So the sons of the singers gathered themselves together,—both out of the circuit round about Jerusalem, and out of the villages of the Netophathites;
also out of Beth-gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba, and Azmaveth,—for, villages, had the singers builded for themselves, round about Jerusalem.
And the priests and the Levites purified themselves,—and purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.
Then brought I up the rulers of Judah upon the wall,—and I appointed two large choirs, even to go in procession to the right, upon the wall, towards the dung-gate;
and after them went Hoshaiah, and half the rulers of Judah;
then Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam;
Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah;
and, of the sons of the priests, with trumpets, Zechariah—son of Jonathan—son of Shemaiah—son of Mattaniah, son of Micaiah, son of Zaccur, son of Asaph;
and his brethren—Shemaiah and Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, and Judah, Hanani, with the instruments of music of David, the man of God,—with Ezra the scribe before them;
and, over they fountain gate and straight before them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall,—above the house of David, even as far as the water-gate, eastward.
And, the second choir, was going over against them, I, following it,—with the half of the people upon the wall, above the tower of the ovens, even as far as the broad wall;
and above the gate of Ephraim, and upon the old gate, and upon the fish-gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, even as far as the sheep-gate,—and they came to a stand, at the gate of the guard.
So the two choirs, came to a stand, at the house of God,—and I, and half the deputies with me;
and, the priests—Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;
and Maaseiah and Shemaiah and Eleazar and Uzzi and Jehohanan and Malchijah and Elam and Ezer,—and the musicians sounded, aloud with Jezrahiah who was over them.
And they sacrificed, on that day, great sacrifices, and rejoiced, for, God, had caused them to rejoice with great joy, moreover also, the women and children, rejoiced,—so that the rejoicing of Jerusalem was heard afar off.
And there were set in charge, on that day, certain men, over the chambers for the treasures, for the heave-offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes, to gather into them, out of the fields of the cities, the portions appointed by the law, for the priests, and for the Levites,—for, the joy of Judah, was over the priests and over the Levites, who were remaining.
So they kept the charge of their God, and the charge of the purification, and [so did] the singers and the doorkeepers,—according to the commandment of David and of Solomon his son.
For, in the days of David and Asaph, of old, there were chiefs of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving, unto God.
Now, all Israel—in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, used to give the portions of the singers and the doorkeepers, the need of a day upon its day,—and they hallowed them unto the Levites, and, the Levites, hallowed them unto the sons of Aaron.