My son, if thou have become surety for thy neighbor, if thou have struck thy hands for a stranger,
thou are snared with the words of thy mouth, thou are taken with the words of thy mouth.
Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, since thou have come into the hand of thy neighbor. Go, humble thyself, and importune thy neighbor.
Do not give sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.
Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.
Go to the ant, thou sluggard. Consider her ways, and be wise.
Which, having no chief, overseer, or ruler,
provides her bread in the summer, and gathers her food in the harvest.
How long will thou sleep, O sluggard? When will thou arise out of thy sleep?
A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep,
so thy poverty shall come as a robber, and thy want as an armed man.
A worthless person, a man of iniquity, is he who walks with a perverse mouth,
who winks with his eyes, who speaks with his feet, who makes signs with his fingers,
in whose heart is perverseness, who devises evil continually, who sows discord.
Therefore his calamity shall come suddenly. Suddenly he shall be broken, and that without remedy.
There are six things which Jehovah hates, yea, seven which are an abomination to him:
haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,
a heart that devises wicked purposes, feet that are swift in running to mischief,
a false witness who utters lies, and he who sows discord among brothers.
My son, keep the commandment of thy father, and do not forsake the law of thy mother.
Bind them continually upon thy heart. Tie them about thy neck.
When thou walk, it shall lead thee. When thou sleep, it shall watch over thee. And when thou awake, it shall talk with thee.
For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is light, and reproofs of instruction are the way of life,
to keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the stranger's tongue.
Do not lust after her beauty in thy heart, nor let her take thee with her eyelids.
For the price of a harlot is as much as a piece of bread, but the adulteress hunts for the precious life.
Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
Or can a man walk upon hot coals, and his feet not be scorched?
So is he who goes in to his neighbor's wife. Whoever touches her shall not be unpunished.
Men do not despise a thief, if he steals to satisfy himself when he is hungry.
Yet if he is found, he shall restore sevenfold. He shall give all the substance of his house.
He who commits adultery with a woman is void of understanding. He who would destroy his own soul does it.
Wounds and dishonor he shall get, and his reproach shall not be wiped away.
For jealousy is a man's fury, and he will not spare in the day of vengeance.
He will not regard any ransom, nor will he be satisfied, though thou give many gifts.