If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God.
Be mindful of things above, not on things on the earth.
For you died, and your life has been hidden with Christ in God.
When Christ our Life is revealed, then you also will be revealed with Him in glory.
Therefore put to death your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness (which is idolatry),
on account of which things' sake the wrath of God is coming on the sons of disobedience,
among whom you also once walked, when you lived in these.
But now also put off all these things: anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, shameful speech out of your mouth.
Do not lie to one another, having put off the old man with his deeds
and having put on the new, having been renewed in knowledge according to the image of Him who created him,
where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, foreigner, Scythian, slave or freeman, but Christ is all things in all.
Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender feelings of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering,
forbearing one another and forgiving yourselves, if anyone has a complaint against any. As Christ forgave you, so also you do.
And above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfectness.
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which you also are called in one body, and be thankful.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.
And everything, whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him.
Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as is becoming in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives, and do not be bitter against them.
Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing to the Lord.
Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they be discouraged.
Slaves, obey your masters according to the flesh in all things; not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
And whatever you do, do it heartily, as to the Lord and not to men;
knowing that from the Lord you shall receive the reward of the inheritance. For you serve the Lord Christ.
But he who does wrong shall receive justice for the wrong which he did, and there is no respect of persons.