As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so, unbecoming to a dullard is honour.
As a sparrow in wandering, as a swallow in flying, so, a causeless curse, shall not alight.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the back of dullards.
Do not answer a dullard, according to his folly, lest, even thou thyself, become like him;
Answer a dullard according to his folly, lest he become wise in his own eyes.
One who cutteth off feet, one who drinketh down wrong, is he who sendeth a message by the hand of a dullard.
Useless are the legs of the lame, and a proverb, in the mouth of a dullard.
Like tying a stone to a sling, so, is he that giveth honour, to a dullard.
A brier cometh into the hand of a drunken-man, a proverb into the mouth of dullards.
[As] an archer who woundeth every thing, [so] one who hireth a dullard, and a drunkard crossing the sea.
As, a dog, returneth onto his own vomit, a dullard, repeateth his folly.
Thou hast seen a man wise in his own eye,—more hope of a dullard, than of him!
Saith the sluggard, A roaring lion in the road! A tearing lion in the midst of the broadways.
The door, turneth on its hinges, and, the sluggard, upon his bed.
The sluggard burieth his hand in the dish, he is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.
Wiser is the sluggard in his own eyes, than, seven persons, who can answer with judgment.
As he who layeth hold of the ears of a dog, is a passer-by, who giveth vent to his wrath over a quarrel, not his!
As a madman throwing firebrands, arrows and death,
So, is a man who deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Was not, I, in sport?
Without wood a fire is quenched, and, where there is no tattler, strife is hushed.
Black coal to burning blocks, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man, for kindling strife.
the words of a tattler, are dainties, they, therefore go down into the chambers of the inner man.
Dross silver overlaid upon earthenware, so are burning lips, with a mischievous heart:
With his lips, the hater dissembleth, but, within himself, he layeth up deceit:
Though he make gracious his voice, do not trust him, for, seven abominations, are in his heart:
Hatred may clothe itself with guile, his wickedness shall be disclosed in the convocation.
He that diggeth a pit, thereinto, shall fall, and, he that rolleth a stone, upon himself, shall it return.
A false tongue, hateth them who are crushed by it, and, a flattering mouth, worketh occasion of stumbling.