Now the leaders of the people lived in Jerusalem. Yet truly, the remainder of the people cast lots, so that they might choose one part in ten who were to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts for the other cities.
Then the people blessed all the men who freely offered themselves to live in Jerusalem.
And so these are the leaders of the province, who were living in Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah. Now each one lived in his possession, in their cities: Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the sons of the servants of Solomon.
And in Jerusalem, there lived some of the sons of Judah, and some of the sons of Benjamin: of the sons of Judah, Athaiah, the son of Aziam, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez;
Maaseiah, the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of a Silonite.
All these sons of Perez lived in Jerusalem, four hundred sixty-eight strong men.
Now these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah;
and after him Gabbai, Sallai. These were nine hundred twenty-eight.
And Joel, the son of Zichri, was their foremost leader. And Judah, the son of Hassenuah, was second over the city.
And from the priests, there were Jedaiah, the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
Seraiah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God,
and their brothers, who were doing the works of the temple: eight hundred twenty-two. And Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zachariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah,
and his brothers, the leaders among the fathers: two hundred forty-two. And Amassai, the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
and their brothers, who were very powerful: one hundred twenty-eight. And their foremost leader was Zabdiel, the son of the powerful.
And from the Levites, there were Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni,
and Shabbethai and Jozabad, who were over all the works which were exterior to the house of God, from among the leaders of the Levites.
And Mattaniah, the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, was the leader of praise and confession in prayer, with Bakbukiah, second among his brothers, and Abda, the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred eighty-four.
And the gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers, who guarded the doorways, were one hundred seventy-two.
And the remainder of Israel, the priests and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, each one in his own possession.
And the temple servants were living at Ophel, with Ziha and Gishpa, of the temple servants.
And the director of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi, the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica. The singing men in the ministry of the house of God were from the sons of Asaph.
In fact, there was a precept of the king about them, and an order among the singing men, throughout each day.
And Pethahiah, the son of Meshezabel, from the sons of Zerah, the son of Judah, was at the hand of the king concerning every word of the people,
and in the houses throughout all their regions. Some of the sons of Judah lived at Kiriatharba and in its daughter villages, and at Dibon and in its daughter villages, and at Jekabzeel and in its vicinity,
and at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Bethpelet,
and at Hazarshual, and at Beersheba and in its daughter villages,
and at Ziklag, and at Meconah and in its daughter villages,
and at Enrimmon, and at Zorah, and at Jarmuth,
Zanoah, Adullam, and in their villages, at Lachish and its regions, and at Azekah and in its daughter villages. And they dwelt from Beersheba as far as the valley of Hinnom.
But the sons of Benjamin lived from Geba, at Michmash, and Aija, and Bethel and in its daughter villages,
to Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
Hadid, Zeboim, and Neballat, Lod,
and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
And some of the Levites were apportioned with Judah and Benjamin.