You shall take heed to do every commandment which I am commanding you today, so that you may live and may multiply and may go in and possess the land which Jehovah has sworn to your fathers.
And you shall remember all the way which Jehovah your God has caused you to go these forty years in the wilderness, in order to humble you, to try you, to know that which is in your heart, whether you will keep His commandments or not.
And He has humbled you, and caused you to hunger, and caused you to eat the manna, which you had not known, and your fathers had not known, in order to cause you to know that man shall not live by bread alone, but man shall live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of Jehovah.
Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your foot did not swell, these forty years.
And you have known with your heart that as a man disciplines his son, Jehovah your God disciplines you.
And you shall keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, to walk in His ways, and to fear Him.
For Jehovah your God brings you into a good land, a land of streams of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills,
a land of wheat and barley and vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive oil and honey,
a land in which you shall eat bread without want; you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron; and you shall dig copper out of its mountains.
And you shall eat and be satisfied; and you shall bless Jehovah your God in the good land which He has given you.
Take heed to yourself, lest you forget Jehovah your God so as not to keep His commandments, and His ordinances, and His statutes, which I am commanding you today;
that when you have eaten and are satisfied, and have built goodly houses, and have lived in them ;
and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold have multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied,
then it rises up into your heart, and you forget Jehovah your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slaves;
who led you through the great and dreadful wilderness, with burning serpent, and scorpion, and thirsty ground where no water is ; who brought you water out of the flinty rock;
who fed you with manna in the wilderness, which your fathers did not know; that He might humble you and that He might prove you, to do you good at your latter end;
that you not say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth.
But you shall remember Jehovah your God, for it is He who gives to you power to get wealth; that He may establish His covenant which He swore to your fathers, as this day.
And it shall be, if you shall forget Jehovah your God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you today that you shall utterly perish;
as the nations that Jehovah makes to perish before you, so you shall perish; because you did not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.