And in those days it happened that the Philistines gathered their armies for warfare, to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, You shall surely go out with me in the army, you and our men.
And David said to Achish, By this you shall know that which your servant will do. And Achish said to David, Then I appoint you keeper of my head all the days.
And Samuel was dead. And all Israel had mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his city. And Saul had taken away the mediums and spiritists out of the land.
And the Philistines had gathered and had come in and camped in Shunem. And Saul gathered all Israel, and they camped in Gilboa.
And Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, and his heart trembled and he greatly feared.
And Saul asked of Jehovah, but Jehovah did not answer him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
And Saul said to his servants, Seek out for me a woman possessing a familiar spirit a medium , and I will go to her and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, a woman, a possessor of a familiar spirit, is in Endor.
And Saul disguised himself and put on other clothes. And he and two of the men with him went; and they came to the woman by night. And he said, I beg you, divine for me by the familiar spirit, calling up the dead , and bring up to me him whom I say to you.
And the woman said to him, Behold, you know that which Saul has done, that he has cut off those having familiar spirits, and the fortune-tellers, out of the land. And why are you laying a snare for my life, to kill me?
And Saul swore to her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah lives, no evil shall happen to you because of this thing.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up to you? And he said, Bring up Samuel to me.
And the woman saw Samuel, and cried out with a loud voice. And the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why have you deceived me, for you are Saul?
And the king said to her, Do not be afraid. For what have you seen? And the woman said to Saul, I have seen a god coming up out of the earth.
And he said to her, What is his appearance? And she said, An old man is coming up, and he is covered with a robe. And Saul knew that he was Samuel. And he bowed his face to the earth, and prostrated himself.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you disturbed me, to bring me up. And Saul said, I am grievously distressed. And the Philistines are fighting against me, and God has turned from me and has not answered me any more, either by the hand of the prophets, or by dreams. And I called for you to make known to me what I should do.
And Samuel said, And why do you ask me, since Jehovah has departed from you and is your foe?
And Jehovah is doing for Himself as He spoke by my hand. And Jehovah is tearing the kingdom out of your hand, and is giving it to your neighbor, to David.
Because you did not listen to the voice of Jehovah, or execute His burning anger on Amalek, on this account Jehovah is doing this thing to you today.
Yea, Jehovah is also giving Israel into the hand of the Philistines along with you. And tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. And Jehovah will give the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul hurried and fell the full length of his stature to the earth, and greatly feared from the words of Samuel. And there was no power in him, for he had not eaten food all that day, and all the night.
And the woman came to Saul. And she saw that he was greatly distressed, and said to him, Behold, your servant has listened to your voice, and I put my life in my hand, and I obeyed your words which you spoke to me.
And now I beg you, you also listen to the voice of your servant, and I will set before you a bit of bread; and eat, and there will be strength in you when you go on your way.
And he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants forced him, and the woman also. And he listened to their voices and rose from the earth and sat on the bed.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house. And she hurried and slaughtered it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened cakes of it.
And she brought it near before Saul, and before his servants. And they ate, and rose up, and went on during that night.