A soft answer turns away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger.
The tongue of the wise uses knowledge rightly, but the mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.
A wholesome tongue is a tree of life, but crookedness in it is a break in the spirit.
A fool despises his father's instruction, but he who listens to correction is wise.
In the house of the righteous is much treasure, but in the gain of the wicked is trouble.
The lips of the righteous send forth knowledge, but the heart of the foolish is not so.
The sacrifice of the wicked is a hateful thing to the LORD, but the prayer of the upright is His delight.
The way of the wicked is hateful to the LORD, but He loves him who pursues righteousness.
Correction is grievous to him who forsakes the way; he who hates reproof shall die.
Hell and destruction are before the LORD; even more the hearts of the sons of men?
A scorner does not love one who corrects him, nor will he go to the wise.
A merry heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken.
The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouth of fools feeds on foolishness.
All the days of the afflicted are evil, but gladness of heart is a continual a feast.
Better is a little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and tumult with it.
Better is a dinner of vegetables where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred with it.
A wrathful man stirs up fighting, but one slow to anger calms fighting.
The way of the lazy one is like a hedge of thorns, but the way of the righteous is made plain.
A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother.
Folly is joy to him who is without any wisdom, but a man of understanding walks uprightly.
Without wisdom, purposes are defeated, but by many wise men they are established.
A man has joy by the answer of his mouth, and a word in due season, how good it is!
The way of life is above to the wise, so that he may turn away from hell below.
The LORD will destroy the house of the proud, but He will set up the border of the widow.
The thoughts of the wicked are very hateful to the LORD, but the words of the pure are pleasant words.
He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, but he who hates bribes shall live.
The heart of the righteous studies to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
The LORD is far from the wicked, but He hears the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes rejoices the heart; a good report makes the bones fat.
The ear that hears the reproof of life shall remain among the wise.
He who refuses instruction despises his own soul, but he who hears reproof gets understanding.
The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom, and before honor is humility.