And he came to Derbe and to Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a certain faithful Jewish woman, but of a Greek father,
who was well reported of by the brothers at Lystra and Iconium.
Paul wanted this man to go forth with him. And having taken him, he circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those regions, for they had all seen that his father was a Greek.
And as they were going through the cities, they delivered to them the decrees to keep, which were determined by the apostles and elders at Jerusalem.
Indeed therefore the congregations were strengthened in the faith, and increased in number daily.
But having passed through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia,
having come toward Mysia, they attempted to go toward Bithynia. And the Spirit did not allow them.
And after passing by Mysia, they came down to Troas.
And a vision appeared to Paul during the night. A certain Macedonian man was standing, imploring him, and saying, After crossing over into Macedonia, help us.
And after he saw the vision, straightaway we sought to go forth into Macedonia, concluding that the Lord called us to preach the good news to them.
Therefore, having launched from Troas, we took a straight course to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis,
and from there to Philippi, which is a principle city of the district of Macedonia colony. And we were in the same city remaining some days.
And on the sabbath day we went outside the city beside a river, where it was customary for prayer to be. And having sat down, we spoke to the women who came together.
And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple of the city of Thyatira, a woman who worshiped God, was listening, whose heart the Lord opened to heed the things being spoken by Paul.
And when she was immersed, and her household, she urged us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, after coming into my house, remain. And she constrained us.
And it came to pass, as we were going to prayer, for a certain servant girl having a spirit of divination to meet us, who brought her masters much business by soothsaying.
This woman having followed Paul and us was crying out, saying, These men are bondmen of the Most High God, who proclaim to us the way of salvation.
And she did this on many days. But Paul, after being exasperated, and having turned, he said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out the same hour.
But when her masters saw that the hope of their business was gone, having seized Paul and Silas, they dragged them into the marketplace to the rulers.
And after bringing them to the magistrates, they said, These men, being Jews, disturb our city,
and proclaim customs that are not permitted for us to receive nor to do, being Romans.
And the multitude rose up together against them. And the magistrates, having torn off their clothes, commanded to beat them with rods.
And having laid many blows upon them, they cast them into prison, having ordered the jailor to guard them securely,
who, having received such an order, threw them into the inner prison, and fastened their feet in the stocks.
Now toward midnight Paul and Silas, while praying, were singing praises to God, and the prisoners were listening to them.
And suddenly a great earthquake occurred, so as for the foundations of the prison to shake. And immediately all the doors were opened, and the bonds of all the men were unfastened.
And the jailor, who became awake and who saw the prison doors opened, having drawn out a sword was going to kill himself, supposing the prisoners to have fled.
But Paul cried out in a great voice, saying, Do nothing harmful to thyself, for we are all here.
And having asked for lights, he rushed in, and having become trembling, he fell down before Paul and Silas.
And after bringing them outside, he said, Sirs, what must I do so that I may be saved?
And they said, Believe in the Lord Jesus, and thou will be saved, thou and thy household.
And they spoke the word of the Lord to him, and to all those in his house.
And having taken them in that hour of the night, he washed from the stripes, and was immersed, he and all those of him, immediately.
And having brought them into his house, he set out a table, and rejoiced, having believed in God with all his house.
But when it became day, the magistrates sent out the police, saying, Release those men.
And the jailor reported these words to Paul: The magistrates have sent out so that ye may be released. Now therefore after coming out, go in peace.
But Paul said to them, Having beaten us publicly, uncondemned men, being Romans, they cast us into prison, and now they thrust us out privately? Certainly not, but after coming, they shall lead us out.
And the police reported these sayings to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans.
And having come they besought them, and when they brought them out, they asked them to go out of the city.
And having departed from the prison, they came in to Lydia. And after seeing the brothers, they encouraged them, and departed.