But I, Brothers, could not speak to you as men with spiritual insight, but only as worldly-minded — mere infants in the Faith of Christ.
I fed you with milk, not with solid food, for you were not then able to take it.   No, and even now you are not able; you are still worldly.
While there exist among you jealousy and party feeling, is it not true that you are worldly, and are acting merely as other men do?
When one says ‘I follow Paul,’ and another ‘I follow Apollos,’ are not you like other men?
What, I ask, is Apollos? or what is Paul? Servants through whom you were led to accept the Faith; and that only as the Lord helped each of you.
I planted, and Apollos watered, but it was God who caused the growth.
Therefore neither the man who plants, nor the man who waters, is of any account, but only God who causes the growth.
In this the man who plants and the man who waters are one; yet each will receive his own reward in proportion to his own labour.
For we are God’s fellow workers; you are God’s harvest field, God’s building.
In fulfilment of the charge which God had entrusted to me, I laid the foundation like a skilful master-builder; but another man is now building upon it. Let every one take care how he builds;
for no man can lay any other foundation than the one already laid — Jesus Christ.
Whatever is used by those who build upon this foundation, whether gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, or straw,
the quality of each man’s work will become known, for the Day will make it plain; because that Day is to be ushered in with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of every man’s work.
If any man’s work, which he has built upon that foundation, still remains, he will gain a reward.
If any man’s work is burnt up, he will suffer loss; though he himself will escape, but only as one who has passed through fire.
Do not you know that you are God’s Temple, and that God’s Spirit has his home in you?
If any one destroys the Temple of God, God will destroy him; for the Temple of God is sacred, and so also are you.
Let no one deceive himself. If any one among you imagines that, as regards this world, he is a wise man, let him become a ‘fool,’ that he may become wise.
For in God’s sight this world’s wisdom is folly. Scripture tells of —  ‘One who catches the wise in their own craftiness,’
And it says again — ‘The Lord sees how fruitless are the deliberations of the wise.’
Therefore let no one boast about men; for all things are yours —
Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Kephas, or the world, or life, or death, or the present, or the future — all things are yours!
But you are Christ’s and Christ is God’s.