And it happened on the third day that Esther put on royal clothing and stood in the inner court of the king's house, before the king's inner house. And the king was sitting on his royal throne in the royal house, in front of the gate of the house.
And it happened, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, she rose in favor in his eyes. And the king held out the golden scepter that was in his hand to Esther. And Esther drew near and touched the top of the scepter.
And the king said to her. What shall be done to you, O queen Esther, and what is your wish? It will be given to you also, even to half of the kingdom.
And Esther answered, If it seems good to the king, let the king and Haman come today to the banquet which I have prepared for him.
And the king said, Cause Haman to hurry to do the word of Esther. And the king and Haman came to the banquet which Esther had prepared.
And the king said to Esther at the banquet of wine, What is your petition, and it shall be granted to you? And what is your wish? And it will be done, to half of the kingdom.
And Esther replied and said, As to my petition and my request,
if I have found favor in the eyes of the king, and if it pleases the king to grant my petition and to perform my request, let the king and Haman come to the banquet which I shall prepare for them, and I will do tomorrow according to the word of the king.
And Haman went out that day joyful and good of heart. But when Haman saw Mordecai in the gate of the king, that he did not stand up or move for him, he was full of fury against Mordecai.
But Haman held himself in. and came to his house, and sent for and brought in his friends, and his wife Zeresh.
And Haman told them of the glory of his riches, and his many sons, and all to which the king had promoted him, and how he lifted him up above the princes and the servants of the king.
And Haman said, Also, Esther the queen did not let anyone come in with the king to the banquet that she had prepared, except me And also tomorrow I am called to it with the king.
Yet all this is no gain to me as long as I am seeing Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate.
And his wife Zeresh and all his friends said to him, Make a wooden gallows fifty cubits high, and tomorrow speak to the king and let them hang Mordecai on it; and go rejoicing in with the king to the banquet. And the thing was good in Haman's eyes. And he caused the wooden gallows to be made.