A soft answer turns away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.
The tongue of the wise uses knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.
A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit.
A fool despises his father's instruction: but he that regards reproof is prudent.
In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.
The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish does not so.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he loves him that follows after righteousness.
Correction is grievous unto him that forsakes the way: and he that hates reproof shall die.
Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the hearts of the children of men?
A scorner loves not one that reproves him: neither will he go unto the wise.
A merry heart makes a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.
The heart of him that has understanding seeks knowledge: but the mouth of fools feeds on foolishness.
All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart has a continual feast.
Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble therewith.
Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
A wrathful man stirs up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeases strife.
The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain.
A wise son makes a glad father: but a foolish man despises his mother.
Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walks uprightly.
Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.
A man has joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it!
The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.
The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow.
The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but the words of the pure are pleasant words.
He that is greedy of gain troubles his own house; but he that hates gifts shall live.
The heart of the righteous studies to answer: but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
The LORD is far from the wicked: but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes rejoices the heart: and a good report makes the bones fat.
The ear that hears the reproof of life abides among the wise.
He that refuses instruction despises his own soul: but he that hears reproof gets understanding.
The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility.