The burden of Nineveh: The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
God is jealous, and Jehovah is avenging, Jehovah is avenging and is a possessor of wrath. Jehovah takes vengeance against His foes, and He keeps wrath against His enemies.
Jehovah takes long to anger, and is great of power, and He does not by any means acquit the guilty . Jehovah has His way in the tempest and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of His feet.
He rebukes the sea and makes it dry, and dries up the rivers. Bashan and Carmel wither, and the flower of Lebanon withers.
The mountains quake from Him, and the hills melt; and the earth is lifted up from before Him, even the world and all who dwell in it.
Who can stand before His fury? And who can rise against the heat of His anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken down because of Him.
Jehovah is good for a stronghold in the day of distress; and He knows those who trust in Him.
But with a flood passing through, He will make a complete end of its place, and darkness shall pursue His enemies.
What are you plotting against Jehovah? He will make an utter end; distress shall not rise up a second time.
For as thorns are woven together, and as their drunkards are drunken, they shall be devoured like fully dried straw.
One who devises evil against Jehovah has come forth from you, one counseling worthlessness.
So says Jehovah, Though secure, and so many, yet they will be cut off and will vanish. And though I have afflicted you, I will not afflict you any more.
And now I will break his yoke from on you and will tear away your bonds.
And Jehovah has commanded concerning you. Not one of your name shall be sown any more; I will cut off the carved image and the molten image out of the house of your gods; I will appoint your grave, for you are despised.
Behold! The feet of Him bearing good news is on the mountains, making heard, Peace! O Judah, celebrate your feasts; fulfill your vows; for the worthless will not continue to pass through among you; he is completely cut off.