And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it, and put incense on it, and offered strange fire before the LORD, which He had not commanded them not to do.
And there went out fire from the LORD and devoured them, and they died before the LORD.
Then Moses said to Aaron, It is that which the LORD spoke, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come near me, and before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace.
And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel, the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near, carry your brothers from before the sanctuary out of the camp.
And they came near and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said.
And Moses said to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar his sons, Do not uncover your heads nor tear your clothes, lest you die, and lest He be angry on all the people. But let your brothers, the whole of Israel, mourn the burning which the LORD has kindled.
And you shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, lest you die. For the anointing oil of the LORD is on you. And they did according to the word of Moses.
And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying,
Do not drink wine nor strong drink, neither you nor your sons with you, when you go into the tabernacle of the congregation, lest you die, a statute forever throughout your generations.
Even for a distinction between the holy and unholy, and between the unclean and clean
and so that you may teach the sons of Israel all the statutes which the LORD has spoken to them by the hand of Moses.
And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons that were left, Take the food offering that remains of the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and eat it without leaven beside the altar. For it is most holy.
And you shall eat in the holy place, because it is your due, and your sons' due, of the fire offerings of the LORD made by fire. For so I am commanded.
And the wave breast and heave shoulder you shall eat in a clean place, you, and your sons and your daughters with you. For they have been given for your portion and the portion of your sons out of the sacrifices of peace offerings of the sons of Israel.
The heave shoulder and the wave breast they shall bring with the fire offerings of the fat, to wave for a wave offering before the LORD. And it shall be yours, and your sons' with you, by a statute forever, even as the LORD has commanded.
And Moses carefully looked for the goat of the sin offering. And behold, it was burned! And he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron left alive, saying,
Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the holy place, since it is most holy, and He has given it to you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the LORD?
Behold! The blood of it was not brought within the holy place! You should indeed have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I commanded.
And Aaron said to Moses, Behold, this day they have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before the LORD. And such things have happened to me. And if I had eaten the sin offering today, should it have been accepted in the sight of the LORD?
And Moses heard, and it was good in his eyes.