After these things the word of Jehovah came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not fear, Abram; I am your shield, your reward will increase greatly.
And Abram said, Lord Jehovah, what will You give to me since I am going childless and the son of the inheritance of my house is Eleazar of Damascus?
And Abram said, Behold! You have given no seed to me; and lo, the son of my house is inheriting of me! And behold!
And behold! The word of Jehovah came to him saying, This one shall not be your heir. But he that shall come forth out of your own bowels shall be your heir.
And He brought him outside and said, Look now at the heavens and count the stars, if you are able to count them. And He said to him, So shall your seed be.
And he believed in Jehovah. And He counted it to him for righteousness.
And He said to him, I am Jehovah who caused you to come out of Ur of the Chaldeans, to give you this land to inherit it.
And he said, My Lord Jehovah, by what shall I know that I shall inherit it?
And He said to him, Take for Me a heifer three years old, and a she-goat three years old, and a ram three years old, and a turtledove, even a nestling.
And he took all these for Him, and he divided them in the middle; and he laid each piece against one another, but he did not divide the bird.
And the birds of prey came down on the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.
And it happened, the sun was setting, and a deep sleep fell on Abram; ant behold, a terror of great darkness falling on him!
And He said to Abram, You must surely know that your seed shall be an alien in a land not theirs; and they shall serve them. And they shall afflict then four hundred years;
and I also will judge that nation whom they shall serve; and afterward they shall come out with great substance.
And you shall come to you fathers in peace. You shall be buried in good old age.
And in the fourth generation they shall come here again; for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full
And it happened, the sun had gone down, and it was dark. Behold! A smoking furnace and a torch of fire that passed between those pieces!
On that day Jehovah made a covenant with Abram, saying, I have given this land to your seed, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates,
the Kenite, and the Kenizzite, and the Kadmonite,
and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the giants,
and the Amorite and the Canaanite, and the Girgashite, and the Jebusite.