Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God, and his teaching, be not reviled.
And those who have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren: but rather let them serve them, because they who partake of the benefit of their service, are believers and beloved brethren. These things enforce in your teaching and exhortation.
If any one teaches other things, and does not assent to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the teaching which is according to godliness,
he is mad with conceit, knowing nothing, but has a morbid fondness for questions and contentions about words, out of which come envy, strife, railing, evil suspicions,
and wranglings, on the part of men who are corrupt in mind, and destitute of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a source of gain. From such withdraw yourself.
But godliness, with a contented disposition, is great gain.
For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out.
And having food and raiment, with these let us be content.
But those who will be rich fail into temptation and a snare, and many foolish and hurtful desires, which drown men in destruction and perdition.
For the love of money is the root of all evil; through the desire of which, some have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
But do you, O man of God, shun these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faithfulness, love, patience, meekness.
Fight the good fight of the faith; lay hold on eternal life, to which you have been called, and for which you confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
I charge you, in the sight of God, who makes all things alive, and before Christ Jesus, who, before Pontius Pilate, confessed a good confession,
that you keep this commandment, so that you may be spotless and blameless till the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which, in his own times, he will show, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;
who alone has immortality, dwelling in light unapproachable, whom no man has seen, nor can see, to whom be honor and power eternal. Amen.
Charge those who are rich in this age, that they be not proud, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who gives us all things richly for our enjoyment,
that they do good, that they be rich in good works, that they be ready to distribute, liberal,
treasuring up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.
O Timothy, keep that which is committed to your charge, avoiding those profane and empty babblings, and disputations about knowledge falsely so called;
by making a profession of this knowledge, some have erred as it respects the faith. Grace be with you. Amen.