When a man taketh a woman, and marrieth her, then shall it be, if she find not favour in his eyes, because he hath found in her some matter of shame, that he shall write her a scroll of divorcement, and put it into her hand, and shall send her forth, out of his house.
And, when she cometh forth out of his house, then may she go her way, and become another man’s.
But if the latter husband hate her, and write her a scroll of divorcement and put it into her hand, and send her away out of his house,—or, if the latter husband die, who had taken her to him to wife,
then may her first husband who sent her away not again take her to become his wife after that she hath been defiled, for that were an abomination, before Yahweh,—lest thou bring sin upon the land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee for an inheritance.
When a man taketh a new wife, he shall not go forth to war, neither shall he be charged with any business,—free, shall he be for his own house one year, and shall rejoice with his wife whom he hath taken.
No man shall take in pledge a handmill, or an upper millstone,—for he would be taking life, in pledge.
When a man is found stealing any person from among his brethren of the sons of Israel, and making merchandise of him, or selling him, then shall that thief die, so shalt thou consume the wicked thing out of thy midst.
Take heed, in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, and do,—according to all that the priests the Levites shall direct you, as I have commanded them, so shall ye observe to do.
Remember that which Yahweh thy God did to Miriam,—by the way, as ye came forth out of Egypt.
When thou lendest thy neighbour a loan of anything, thou shalt not enter into his house to secure his pledge:
outside, shalt thou stand, and the man to whom thou art lending, shall bring forth unto thee his pledge outside,
And, if he be a poor man, thou shalt not sleep in his pledge:
thou shalt, restore, to him the pledge at the going in of the sun, so shall he sleep in his own mantle, and bless thee,—and, unto thee, shall it be righteousness before Yahweh thy God.
Thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is poor and needy,—of thy brethren or of thy sojourners that are in thy land, within thy gates;
for his day, shalt thou give his hire neither shall the sun, go in upon it, for, poor, he is, and, unto it, is he lifting up his soul,—lest he cry out against thee, unto Yahweh, and it be, in thee a sin.
Fathers shall not be put to death for sons, nor shall sons, be put to death for fathers,—every man, for his own sin, shall he put to death.
Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the sojourner [or] the fatherless,—neither shalt thou take in pledge the garment of a widow;
so shalt thou remember that, a servant, becamest thou in Egypt, and that Yahweh thy God, redeemed thee, from thence,—therefore, am I commanding thee to do this thing.
When thou cuttest down thy harvest in thy field and forgettest a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not turn back to fetch it, to the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, shall it belong,—that Yahweh thy God, may bless thee, in all the Work of thy hands.
When thou beatest thine olive-tree, thou shalt not glean after thee,—to the sojourner to the fatherless and to the widow, shall it belong,
When thou cuttest off the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt not go about picking after thee,—to the sojourner to the fatherless and to the widow, shall it belong:
so shalt thou remember that a servant, becamest thou in the land of Egypt,—therefore, am I commending thee to do this thing.