And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it.
And it was told the house of David, saying, Syria is allied with Ephraim. And his heart trembled, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the forest tremble with the wind.
Then Jehovah said to Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou, and Shear-jashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool, in the highway of the fuller's field.
And say to him, Take heed, and be quiet. Fear not, nor let thy heart be faint, because of these two tails of smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria, and of the son of Remaliah.
Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have purposed evil against thee, saying,
Let us go up against Judah, and vex it, and let us make a breach in it for us, and set up a king in the midst of it, even the son of Tabeel,
thus says the lord Jehovah: It shall not stand, nor shall it come to pass.
For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin. And within sixty-five years Ephraim shall be broken in pieces, so that is shall not be a people.
And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah's son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established.
And Jehovah spoke again to Ahaz, saying,
Ask thee a sign of Jehovah thy God, ask it either in the depth, or in the height above.
But Ahaz said, I will not ask, nor will I test Jehovah.
And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David. Is it a small thing for you to weary men, that ye will weary my God also?
Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign: Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
Butter and honey shall he eat, when he knows to refuse the evil, and choose the good.
For before the child shall know to refuse the evil, and choose the good, the land whose two kings thou abhor shall be forsaken.
Jehovah will bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thy father's house, days that have not come, from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah-even the king of Assyria.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah will whistle for the fly that is in the outermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate valleys, and in the clefts of the rocks, and upon all thorn-hedges, and upon all pastures.
In that day the Lord will shave with a razor what is hired in the parts beyond the River, even with the king of Assyria, the head and the hair of the feet, and it shall also consume the beard.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall keep alive a young cow and two sheep.
And it shall come to pass, that because of the abundance of milk which they shall give he shall eat butter. For everyone who is left in the midst of the land shall eat butter and honey.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silver coins, shall be for briers and thorns.
Men shall come there with arrows and with bow, because all the land shall be briers and thorns.
And all the hills that were dug with the mattock, thou shall not come there for fear of briers and thorns, but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of sheep.