The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Abraham begot Isaac: Isaac begot Jacob: Jacob begot Judah and his brothers:
Judah begot Phares and Zarah of Thamar: Phares begot Hezron: Hezron begot Aram:
Aram begot Aminidab: Aminidab begot Nahshon: Nahshon begot Salmon:
Salmon begot Boa of Rachab: Boaz begot Obed of Ruth: Obed begot Jesse:
Jesse begot David the king: David the king begot Solomon of her who had been the wife of Uriah:
Solomon begot Rehoboam: Rehoboam begot Abia: Abia begot Asa:
Asa begot Jehosaphat: Jehosaphat begot Jehoram: Jehoram begot Uzziah:
Uzziah begot Jotham: Jotham begot Ahaz: Ahaz begot Hezekiah:
Hezekiah begot Manasseh: Manasseh begot Amon: Amon begot Josiah:
Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers, about the time of the removal to Babylon.
And after the removal to Babylon, Jeconiah begot Shealtiel: Shealtiel begot Zerubbabel:
Zerubbabel begot Abiud: Abiud begot Eliakim: Eliakim begot Azor:
Azor begot Sadok: Sadok begot Achim: Achim begot Eliud:
Eliud begot Eleazar: Eleazar begot Matthan: Matthan begot Jacob:
Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
So all the generations from Abraham till David are fourteen generations: and from David till the removal to Babylon are fourteen generations: and from the removal to Babylon till the Christ are fourteen generations.
But Jesus Christ was begotten thus: After his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they had come together, she was found to be with child of the Holy Spirit.
Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not choosing to make an example of her, intended to put her away privately.
But while he was thinking of these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying: Joseph, son of David, fear not to take home Mary your wife; for that which is begotten in her is of the Holy Spirit.
And she will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus; for he will save his people from their sins.
Now all this was done, that the word might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying:
Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bear a son, and his name shall be called Immanuel, which, when translated, is, God with us.
And Joseph awoke from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord had commanded him; and he took home his wife,
and knew her not till she had brought forth her first-born son. And he called his name Jesus.