For, behold, the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts, takes away the stay and the staff from Jerusalem and from Judah; the whole stay of bread and the whole stay of water;
the mighty man, and the man of war; the judge and the prophet; and the diviner and the elder;
the commander of fifty and the exalted of face; the counselor and the skilled craftsman; and the expert enchanter.
And I will give young boys to be their rulers, and caprices shall rule over them.
And the people shall be crushed, man against man, and a man on his neighbor. The boy will be insolent against the elder, and the despised against the honorable.
When a man shall take hold of his brother, at his father's house, saying , A cloak! Come, you be a ruler for is; let this ruin be under your hand.
In that day he shall swear, saying, I will not be one who binds up; for there is no bread nor a cloak in my house; you shall not make me a ruler of the people.
For Jerusalem has stumbled, and Judah has fallen; because their tongue and their deeds toward Jehovah are to rebel against the eyes of His glory.
The look of their faces witnesses against them; they have declared their sin like Sodom; they do not hide it . Woe to their soul! For they have dealt evil to themselves.
Say to the righteous that it is well; for they shall eat of the fruit of their doings.
Woe to the wicked! For the evil, the doing of his hand will be done to him.
As for My people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over him. Oh My people, your rulers cause you to go astray, and they swallow the way of your paths.
Jehovah stands up to plead His cause, and stands up to judge the peoples.
Jehovah will enter into judgment with the elders of His people, and their kings. For you have eaten up the vineyard, the plunder of the poor is in your houses.
What do you mean that you crush My people, and grind the faces of the poor, says the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts?
And Jehovah says, Because the daughters of Zion are proud, and walk with stretched out necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and make a tinkling with their feet;
So Jehovah will make the crown of the daughter of Zion scabby; and Jehovah will lay their secret parts bare.
In that day the Lord will take away the beauty of the ankle bracelets, and the headbands, and the crescents,
the pendants, and the bracelets, and the veils;
the headdresses, and the leg ornaments, and the sashes, and the houses of the soul, and the amulets;
the rings and nose jewels;
the festal apparel and the outer garments; and the mantles, and the purses;
the mirrors and the fine linen; and the turbans and the veils.
And it shall be, instead of a smell of perfume, there shall be an odor of decay. And instead of a sash, a rope. And instead of well set hair, baldness. And instead of a rich robe, a girding of sackcloth; burning instead of beauty.
Your men shall fall by the sword, and your mighty in the war.
And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she shall sit bare on the ground.