IF ye then be risen with Christ, seek the things which are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.
Fix your minds on things above, not on things on the earth.
For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.
When Christ shall appear, who is our life, then shall you also with him be manifested in glory.
Mortify therefore your members which are on the earth, fornication, impurity, the vile passion, evil concupiscence, and insatiable desire, which is idolatry:
for which things the wrath of God cometh upon the children of disobedience;
in which ye also walked formerly when ye lived among them:
but now ye have put away all these things, anger, asperity, malice, scandal, obscenity, out of your mouth.
Lie not one to another, seeing ye have put off the old man with his practices;
and have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him.
Where there is no difference whether a man be Greek or Jew, circumcised or uncircumcised, barbarian or Scythian, slave or freeman: but Christ is all and in all.
Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering;
forbearing one another, and freely forgiving one another, if any man hath a complaint against another: even as Christ hath freely forgiven you, so also do ye.
But above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection.
And let the peace of God set up its throne in your hearts, whereunto also ye have been called in one body; and be ye thankful.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing yourselves in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual canticles, singing with grace in your heart unto the Lord.
And everything that ye do in word or in work, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.
Wives be subject to your own husbands, as is fit in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives, and use no asperity against them.
Children, be obedient to your parents in all things; for this is well-pleasing to the Lord.
Parents, irritate not your children, lest their spirit be broken.
Servants, obey in all things your masters after the flesh, not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but, in simplicity of heart, fearing God.
And in every thing that ye do, labour from the soul, as for the Lord, and not man;
knowing that from the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye are servants to the Lord Christ.
But he that is guilty of injustice shall receive punishment for the wrong he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.