This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;
Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and brings forth a son in his own likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth:
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.
And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and brings forth Enos:
And Seth lived after he brings forth Enos eight hundred and seven years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died.
And Enos lived ninety years, and brings forth Cainan:
And Enos lived after he brings forth Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died.
And Cainan lived seventy years and brings forth Mahalaleel:
And Cainan lived after he brings forth Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died.
And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and brings forth Jared:
And Mahalaleel lived after he brings forth Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he brings forth Enoch:
And Jared lived after he brings forth Enoch eight hundred years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he died.
And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and brings forth Methuselah:
And Enoch walked with God after he brings forth Methuselah three hundred years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years:
And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.
And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and brings forth Lamech.
And Methuselah lived after he brings forth Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.
And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and brings forth a son:
And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD has cursed.
And Lamech lived after he brings forth Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and brings forth sons and daughters:
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.
And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah brings forth Shem, Ham, and Japheth.