Now these [are] the commandments, the statutes, and the rights, which the LORD your God commanded to teach you that ye might do [them] in the land into which ye go to inherit it
that thou might fear the LORD thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou and thy son and thy son's son, all the days of thy life and that thy days may be prolonged.
Hear, therefore, O Israel, and observe to do [it] that it may be well with thee and that ye may be multiplied exceedingly (as the LORD God of thy fathers has said unto thee) in the land that flows with milk and honey.
Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God [is] one LORD.
And thou shalt love the LORD thy God with all thine heart and with all thy soul and with all thy might.
And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be upon thy heart,
and thou shalt repeat them diligently unto thy sons and shalt talk of them being in thy house and walking by the way, lying down in bed, and rising up;
and thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thy eyes;
and thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house and on thy gates.
And it shall be, when the LORD thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he swore unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give it unto thee: great and goodly cities, which thou didst not build,
and houses full of all good [things], which thou didst not fill, and hewn out wells, which thou didst not dig, vineyards and olive trees, which thou didst not plant; when thou shalt have eaten and be full,
[then] beware lest thou forget the LORD, who brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God and serve him and shalt swear by his name.
Ye shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the peoples who [are] round about you
(for the LORD thy God [is] a jealous God among you) lest peradventure the anger of the LORD thy God be kindled against thee and destroy thee from off the face of the earth.
Ye shall not tempt the LORD your God, as ye tempted [him] in Massah.
Ye shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God and his testimonies and his statutes, which he has commanded thee.
And thou shalt do [that which is] right and good in the sight of the LORD that it may be well with thee and that thou may enter in and inherit the good land which the LORD swore unto thy fathers
so that he will cast out all thine enemies from before thy presence, as the LORD has spoken.
[And] when tomorrow thy son asks thee, saying, What [are] the testimonies and the statutes and the rights, which the LORD our God has commanded you?
Then thou shalt say unto thy son, We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt, and the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand;
and the LORD showed signs and wonders, great and sore, in Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his household, before our eyes;
and he brought us out from there that he might bring us in, to give us the land which he swore unto our fathers.
And the LORD commanded us to do all these statutes that we might fear the LORD our God for our good always that he might give us life, as [it is] at this day.
And we shall have justice when we keep ourselves [by] doing all these commandments before the LORD our God, as he has commanded us.: