And I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and behold four horns.
And I said unto the angel that spoke with me: 'What are these?' And he said unto me: 'These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.'
And HaShem showed me four craftsmen.
Then said I: 'What come these to do?' And he spoke, saying: 'These--the horns which scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up his head--these then are come to frighten them, to cast down the horns of the nations, which lifted up their horn against the land of Judah to scatter it.'
And I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand.
Then said I: 'Whither goest thou?' And he said unto me: 'To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof.'
And, behold, the angel that spoke with me went forth, and another angel went out to meet him,
and said unto him: 'Run, speak to this young man, saying: 'Jerusalem shall be inhabited without walls for the multitude of men and cattle therein.
For I, saith HaShem, will be unto her a wall of fire round about, and I will be the glory in the midst of her.
Ho, ho, flee then from the land of the north, saith HaShem; for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heaven, saith HaShem.
Ho, Zion, escape, thou that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon.'
For thus saith HaShem of hosts who sent me after glory unto the nations which spoiled you: 'Surely, he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye.
For, behold, I will shake My hand over them, and they shall be a spoil to those that served them'; and ye shall know that HaShem of hosts hath sent me.
'Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion; for, lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith HaShem.
And many nations shall join themselves to HaShem in that day, and shall be My people, and I will dwell in the midst of thee'; and thou shalt know that HaShem of hosts hath sent me unto thee.
And HaShem shall inherit Judah as His portion in the holy land, and shall choose Jerusalem again.
Be silent, all flesh, before HaShem; for He is aroused out of His holy habitation.