Let as many slaves as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, so that the name and doctrine of God may not be blasphemed.
And those who have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brothers. But rather let them serve, because they are faithful and beloved, those of the good service receiving in return. Teach and exhort these things.
If anyone teaches otherwise, and does not consent to wholesome words (those of our Lord Jesus Christ), and to the doctrine according to godliness,
he is proud, knowing nothing. He is sick concerning doubts and arguments, from which comes envy, strife, evil speakings, evil suspicions,
meddling, of men whose minds have been corrupted and deprived of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. Withdraw from such.
But godliness with contentment is great gain.
For we brought nothing into the world, and it is clear that we can carry nothing out.
But having food and clothing, we will be content.
But they who will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts which plunge men into death and destruction.
For the love of money is a root of all evils, of which some having lusted after, they were seduced from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
But you, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and meekness.
Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, to which you are also called and have professed a good profession before many witnesses.
I charge you before God (who makes all things alive) and in the sight of Christ Jesus (who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate),
that you keep the commandment without spot and without blame until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ.
For He in His own time will reveal who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings and Lord of lords,
who alone has immortality, dwelling in light which cannot be approached, whom no one of men have seen, nor can see; to whom be honor and power everlasting. Amen.
Charge the rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, He offering to us richly all things to enjoy,
that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to share, to be generous,
laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.
O Timothy, guard the Deposit, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and opposing the theories of falsely-named science,
which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with you. Amen.