And Bezaleel made the ark of acacia wood; two cubits and a half long, and a cubit and a half wide, and a cubit and a half high.
And he overlaid it with pure gold, inside and outside. And he made for it a wreath of gold all around.
And he cast four rings of gold for it, on its four feet; two rings on its one side and two rings on its second side.
And he made poles of acacia wood; and he overlaid them with gold.
And he put the poles into the rings, on the sides of the ark, to carry the ark.
And he made a mercyseat of pure gold; two cubits and a half long, and a cubit and a half wide.
And he made two cherubs of gold; he made them of beaten work, from the two ends of the mercyseat;
one cherub here at one end, and one cherub here at the other end. He made the cherubs from the mercyseat, from its two ends.
And the cherubs were spreading out wings above, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, their faces each toward the other; the faces of the cherubs were toward the mercyseat.
And he made the table of planks of acacia; two cubits long, and a cubit wide, and a cubit and a half high.
And he overlaid it with pure gold; and he made for it a wreath of gold all around.
And he made for it a border of a hand's breadth all around. And he made a wreath of gold for its border all around.
And he cast for it four rings of gold; and he put the rings on the four corners, which were to its four feet.
The rings were near the border, the housings for the poles, to carry the table.
And he made the poles of acacia wood; and he overlaid them with gold, to lift up the table.
And he made the vessels which were on the table, its platters and its bowls, and its sacrificial cups, and its pitchers by which a drink offering is made, with pure gold.
And he made the lampstand of pure gold; he made the lampstand of beaten work, its side, and its branch, its calyxes, its knobs and its blossoms were from it.
And six branches went out from its sides; three branches of the lampstand from one side, and three branches of the lampstand from its second side.
Three almond-like bowls were on the one branch, with knob and blossom; and three almond-like bowls on the one branch, with knob and blossom; so for the six branches, those going out from the lampstand.
And on the lampstand were four almond-like bowls, its knobs and its blossoms.
And a knob was under two branches of it, to the six branches, those going out from it.
The knobs and the branches of it were one beaten work of pure gold.
And he made its seven lamps and its snuffers and its pans of pure gold.
He made it and all its vessels from a talent of pure gold.
And he made he altar of incense of acacia wood; its length a cubit, and its width a cubit, square. And its height was two cubits; its horns were of it.
And he overlaid it with pure gold, its top and its sides and its horns all around. And he made for it a wreath of gold all around.
And he made for it two rings of gold, from beneath its wreath, on its two corners, on its two sides, for housings for poles, to lift it.
And he made its poles of acacia wood; and he overlaid them with gold.
And he made the holy oil of anointing, and the pure incense of fragrant spices, the work of a perfumer.