And coming, the Pharisees and Sadducees asked Him to show them a sign out of the heaven, tempting Him.
But answering, He said to them, Evening coming on, you say, Clear sky, for the sky is red.
And at morning, Today a storm, for the sky is red, being overcast. Hypocrites! You indeed know how to discern the face of the heaven, but you cannot the signs of the times.
An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign, and a sign will not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet. And leaving them, He went away.
And His disciples coming to the other side, they forgot to take loaves.
And Jesus said to them, Watch! And beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, Because we did not take loaves.
And knowing, Jesus said to them, Why do you reason among yourselves because you took no loaves, little-faiths?
Do you not perceive nor recall the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many hand baskets you took up?
Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many lunch baskets you took up?
How do you not perceive that it was not about loaves that I said to you to beware of from the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees?
Then they knew that He did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but from the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And coming into the parts of Caesarea of Philip, Jesus questioned His disciples, saying, Whom do men say Me the Son of Man to be?
And they said, Some say John the Baptist, and others Elijah, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
He said to them, But you, whom do you say Me to be?
And answering, Simon Peter said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And answering, Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah, for flesh and blood did not reveal it to you, but My Father in Heaven.
And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build My church, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against her.
And I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of Heaven. And whatever you bind on earth shall occur, having been bound in Heaven. And whatever you may loose on the earth shall be, having been loosed in Heaven.
Then He warned His disciples that they should tell no one that He is Jesus the Christ.
From that time, Jesus began to show to His disciples that it was necessary for Him to go away to Jerusalem, and to suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and to be killed, and to be raised on the third day.
And having taken Him near, Peter began to rebuke Him, saying, God be gracious to You, Lord; this shall never be to You.
But turning He said to Peter, Go behind Me, Satan! You are an offense to Me, for you do not think of the things of God, but the things of men.
Then Jesus said to His disciples, If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and let him bear his cross, and let him follow Me.
For whoever may desire to save his life will lose it. But whoever may lose his life for My sake will find it.
For what will a man be benefited if he should gain the whole world, but forfeits his soul? Or what will a man give as an exchange for his soul?
For the Son of man is about to come with His angels in the glory of His Father. And then "He will give reward to each according to his actions." LXX-Psa. 61:13; Pro. 24:12; MT-Psa. 62:12
Truly I say to you, There are some standing here who in no way will taste of death until they see the Son of man coming in His kingdom.