And Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab.
And Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper room in Samaria, and was sick. And he sent messengers and said to them, Go, ask of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron if I will recover from this sickness.
And an angel of Jehovah spoke to Elijah the Tishbite, Rise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say to them, Is it because there is not a God in Israel that you are going to ask of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron?
And so Jehovah says this, You shall not come down from that bed on which you have gone up, but you shall surely die. And Elijah departed.
And the messengers returned to him. And he said to them, What is this, that you have turned back?
And they said to him, A man came up to meet us, and said to us, Go, return to the king who sent you. And you shall say to him, So says Jehovah, Is it because there is not a God in Israel that you are sending to ask of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron? Therefore, you shall not come down from the bed on which you have gone up, for you shall certainly die.
And he said to them, What was the fashion of the man who came up to meet you and spoke these words to you?
And they said to him, A hairy man, and a girdle of leather was girded about his loins. And he said, He is Elijah the Tishbite.
And the king sent to him the commander of fifty with his fifty. And he went up to him. And behold, he was sitting on the top of the hill. And he spoke to him, O man of God, the king has said, Come down.
And Elijah answered and said to the commander of fifty, And if I am a man of God, fire will come down from the heavens and consume you and your fifty. And fire came down from the heavens and consumed him and his fifty.
And he turned and sent another commander of fifty and his fifty to him. And he answered and said to him, O man of God, so says the king, Hurry, come down.
And Elijah answered and said to them, If I am a man of God, fire will come down from the heavens and will consume you and your fifty. And fire from God came down from the heavens and consumed him and his fifty.
And he turned and sent a third commander of fifty and his fifty. And the third commander of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and begged him, and said to him, O man of God, please let my life and the life of your servants, these fifty, be precious in your eyes.
Behold, fire has come down from the heavens and has consumed the two commanders of the former fifties and their fifties. And now let my life be precious in your eyes.
And the Angel of Jehovah spoke to Elijah, Go down with him. Do not be afraid of him. And he rose up and went down with him to the king.
And he said to him, So says Jehovah, Because you have sent messengers to ask of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron, is it because there is not a God in Israel to inquire of His word? Therefore, you shall not come down from the bed on which you have gone up, for you shall certainly die.
And he died, according to the word of Jehovah that Elijah spoke. And Jehoram reigned in his place, in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, for he had no son.
And the rest of the acts of Ahaziah that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?