And the feast of the unleavened bread, which is called a Passover, was drawing near.
And the High-priests and the Scribes were seeking, how they might get rid of him; for they feared the people.
But Satan entered into Judas, him called Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve;
and, departing, he conversed with the High-priests and Captains, as to how, unto them, he might deliver him up.
And they rejoiced, and bargained with him to give him, silver;
and he freely consented, and began seeking a good opportunity for delivering him up, in the absence of a multitude, unto them.
Now the day of the unleavened bread a came,—on which it was needful to be sacrificing the passover.
And he sent forth Peter and John, saying—Go, and make ready, for us, the passover, that we may eat.
And, they, said unto him—Where wiliest thou, we should make ready?
And, he, said unto them—Lo! when ye have entered into the city, there will meet you a man, bearing, an earthen-jar of water: follow him into the house into which he is entering.
And ye shall say unto the master of the house—The teacher saith unto thee, where is the lodging, where, the passover, with my disciples, I may eat?
And, he, unto you, will shew, a large upper room, spread: there, make ready.
And, departing, they found according as he had said unto them, and made ready the passover.
And, when the hour arrived, he reclined, and the apostles with him.
And he said unto them—I have greatly desired, to eat, this passover, with you before I suffer;
For, I say unto you—In nowise shall I eat it, until it have been fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And, accepting a cup, giving thanks, he said—Take this, and divide among yourselves;
For, I say unto you—In nowise shall I drink henceforth of the fruit of the vine, until, the kingdom of God, shall come.
And, taking a loaf, he gave thanks, and brake, and gave unto them, saying—This is my body [[which in your behalf is being given: this, be ye doing, in remembrance, of me.
And—the cup, in like manner, after the taking of supper, saying—This cup, is the new covenant in my blood, which, in your behalf, is to be poured out.]]
Nevertheless, lo! the hand of him who is delivering me up, is with me upon the table.
Because, the Son of Man, indeed, according to what is marked out, goeth his way; nevertheless, alas! for that man through whom he is being delivered up.
And, they, began to be enquiring together, among themselves, as to which, then, it could be, from among them, who, this thing, was about to perpetrate!
And it came to pass that there was, a rivalry also, among them, as to which of them seemed to be greater [than the rest] .
And, he, said unto them—The kings of the nations, lord it over them, and, they who wield authority over them, benefactors, are called.
But, ye, not so! On the contrary—the greater among you, Let him become as, the younger, and, he that governeth, as, he that ministereth,
For which is greater—he that reclineth? or he that ministereth? Is not he that reclineth? But, I, am, in your midst, as he that ministereth,
Ye, however, are they who have remained throughout with me in my temptations;
And, I, covenant unto you—as my Father hath covenanted unto me—a kingdom,
That ye may eat and drink, at my table, in my kingdom, and sit upon thrones, judging, the twelve tribes of Israel.
Simon! Simon! lo! Satan, hath claimed you, to sift as wheat;
But, I, have entreated for thee, that thy faith may not fail. And, thou, once thou hast turned, strengthen thy brethren.
But, he, said unto him—Lord! with thee, am I, ready, both into prison and unto death, to be going.
And, he, said: I tell thee, Peter—A cock will not crow this day, until, thrice, thou deny that thou knowest me.
And he said unto them—When I sent you forth, without purse or satchel or sandals, of anything, came ye short? And, they, said—Of nothing!
And he said unto them—But, now, he that hath a purse, let him take it, in like manner also, a satchel; and, he that hath nothing, let him sell his mantle, and buy a sword!
For I say unto you—This that is written, must needs be completed in me,—And, with lawless ones, was he reckoned; for, even that which concerneth me, hath, completion.
And, they, said—Lord, lo! two swords, here! And, he, said unto them—’Tis, enough!
And going out, he went, according to his custom, unto the Mount of Olives; and the disciples [also] followed him.
And, coming up to the place, he said unto them—Be praying, lest ye enter into temptation.
And, he, was torn from them about a stone’s throw; and, bending his knees, he began to pray,
saying—Father! if thou please, bear aside this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine, be accomplished.
[[And there appeared unto him a messenger from heaven, strengthening him,—
and, coming to be in an agony, more intensely, was he praying; and his perspiration became, as if great drops of blood, falling upon the ground.]]
And, arising from prayer, he came unto his disciples, and found them falling asleep by reason of their grief;
and he said unto them—Why are ye slumbering? Arise! and be praying, lest ye enter into temptation.
While yet he was speaking, lo! a multitude; and, he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them on,—and he drew near unto Jesus, to kiss him.
But, Jesus, said to him—Judas! with a kiss, the Son of Man, dost thou deliver up?
And they who were about him, seeing what would be, said—Lord! shall we smite with the sword?
And a certain one from among them smote, the High-priest’s, servant, and took off his right ear.
But Jesus, answering, said—Let be—as long as this! …And, touching the ear, he healed him.
And Jesus said unto the High-priests, and Captains of the temple, and Elders, who had come against him—As against a robber, have ye come out, with swords and clubs?
Daily, was I with you, in the temple, and yet ye stretched not forth your hands against me! …But, this, is your hour, and the authority of darkness.
And, having arrested him, they led him away, and took him into the house of the High-priest; and, Peter, was following afar.
And, they having kindled up a fire in the midst of the court, and taken seats together, Peter was for sitting among them.
But, a certain maid-servant, seeing him seating himself towards the light, and looking steadfastly at him, said—This one also, was, with him.
But, he, denied, saying—I know him not, woman!
And, after a little, another, beholding him, said—Thou also, art, from among them. But, Peter, said—Man! I am not.
And, about one hour having passed, a certain other, began stoutly to insist, saying—Of a truth, this one also, was with him; for indeed he is, a Galilaean.
But Peter said—Man! I know not what thou art saying! And, instantly while yet he was speaking, a cock crew.
And the Lord turned, and looked at Peter; and Peter was put in mind of the declaration of the Lord, how he had said to him—Before, a cock, crow this day, thou wilt deny me thrice!
[And, going forth outside, he wept bitterly.]
And, the men who held him bound, kept mocking him, with blows;
and, blindfolding him, questioned him, saying—Prophesy! which is he that smote thee?
and, many other things, with profane speech, were they saying unto him.
And, when it became day, the Eldership of the people was gathered together—both High-priests and Scribes,—and they led him away into their high-council, saying—If, thou, art the Christ, tell us!
But he said unto them—If I should tell, you, in nowise would ye believe,
And, if I should put questions, in nowise would ye answer;
But, henceforth, shall the Son of Man be seated on the right hand of the power of God.
And they all said—Thou, then, art the Son of God? And, he, unto them said—Ye, say [it],—because, I, am.
And, they, said—What, further, need have we, of witness? We ourselves, have heard it from his mouth.