And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying:
Behold, I have called by name Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, to the tribe of Judah.
And I have filled him with the spirit of God in wisdom, and in intelligence, and in knowledge, and in all workmanship,
to devise designs, to work in gold and in silver and in bronze,
and in cutting of stones for finishings, and in carving of wood, to work in all workmanship.
And behold! I have given with him Aholiab the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of every wise-hearted one I have given wisdom; and they shall make all which I have commanded you:
the tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark of the testimony, and the mercyseat which is going up over it, and all the vessels of the tabernacle,
and the table and its vessels, and the pure lampstand and all its vessels, and the altar of incense;
and the altar of burnt offering and all its vessels, and the laver and its base;
and the woven garments, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister as priests;
and the oil of anointing, and the incense of perfumes for the sanctuary; according to all which I have commanded you, they shall do.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying:
And you speak to the sons of Israel, saying, You shall surely keep My sabbaths; for it is a sign between Me and you for your generation; to know that I am Jehovah your sanctifier.
And you shall keep the Sabbath, for it is holy for you; the profaners of it surely shall be put to death; for everyone doing work in it, that soul shall be cut off from the midst of his people.
Work may be done six days, and on the seventh day is a sabbath of rest, holy to Jehovah; everyone doing work on the Sabbath day surely shall be put to death.
And the sons of Israel shall observe the Sabbath, to do the Sabbath for their generations; it is a never ending covenant.
It is a sign forever between Me and the sons of Israel; for in six days Jehovah made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day He rested and was refreshed.
And when He finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, He gave to Moses the two tablets of the testimony, tablets of stone, written by the finger of God.