Paul, an apostle, not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, the One raising Him from the dead,
and all the brothers with me, to the churches of Galatia.
Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave Himself for our sins, so that He might deliver us out of the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
I wonder that you are so quickly being transferred from Him having called you by the grace of Christ to another gospel,
which is not another; only there are some troubling you and desiring to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But even if we, or an angel out of Heaven, should announce a gospel to you beside what we preached to you, let him be accursed.
As we have said before, and now I say again, If anyone announces a gospel to you beside what you received, let him be accursed.
For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I yet pleased men, I would not be a slave of Christ.
And, brothers, I make known to you the gospel preached by me, that it is not according to man.
For I did not receive it from man, nor was I taught it , but by a revelation of Jesus Christ.
For you heard my way of life when I was in Judaism, that with surpassing zeal I persecuted the church of God and ravaged it.
And I progressed in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being much more a zealot of the traditions of my ancestors.
But when God was pleased, "He having separated me from my mother's womb" and having called through His grace, Isa. 49:1
to reveal His Son in me, that I might preach Him among the nations, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to the apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia and returned again to Damascus.
Then after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Peter and remained with him fifteen days.
But I saw no other of the apostles except James the brother of the Lord.
And what I write to you, behold, before God I do not lie.
Then I went into the regions of Syria and of Cilicia,
but I was not known by face to the churches of Judea in Christ.
But only they were hearing that he who was persecuting us then, now proclaims the faith which he then ravaged;
and they glorified God in me.