And it came to pass, in the days when the Judges administered justice, that there was a famine in the land,—and so a certain man went his way, out of Bethlehem-judah to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.
And, the name of the man, was Elimelech, and, the name of his wife, Naomi, and, the name of his two sons, Mahlon and Chilion—Ephrathites out of Bethlehem-judah,—so they came into the country of Moab, and remained there.
And Elimelech, husband of Naomi, died,—and she was left, she and her two sons.
And they took them wives, of the women of Moab, the name of the one, was Orpah, and, the name of the other, Ruth,—and they dwelt there, about ten years.
And, they also, both, died, Mahlon and Chilion,—so the woman was bereft of her two sons, and of her husband.
Then she arose, she and her daughters-in-law, and returned out of the country of Moab,—for she had heard, in the country of Moab, how that Yahweh had visited his people, in giving unto them, bread.
So she went forth out of the dwelling-place where she had remained, and her two daughters-in-law with her,—and they went on the way, to return unto the land of Judah.
Then said Naomi to her two daughters-in-law: Go return, each one to the house of her mother,—Yahweh deal with you in lovingkindness, as ye have dealt with the dead, and with me.
Yahweh grant you, that ye may find a place of rest, each one in the house of her husband,—And she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice, and wept.
And they said to her,—With thee, will we return, unto thy people.
Then said Naomi—Go back, my daughters! wherefore should ye journey with me? Have I, yet, sons in my womb, that they should become your, husbands?
Go back, my daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband,—If I should say, I have, hope, if I should, even to-night have a husband, and should, even bear sons,
would ye, therefore, tarry until they were grown? would ye, therefore, shut yourselves up from having husbands? Nay! my daughters, for it is far more bitter for me than for you, that forth hath gone against me, the hand of Yahweh.
And they lifted up their voice and wept, yet more. Then Orpah kissed her mother-in- law, but, Ruth, clave unto her.
And she said—Lo! thy sister-in-law hath gone back, unto her people, and unto her gods,—go thou back, after thy sister-in-law.
And Ruth said—Do not urge me to leave thee, to go back from following thee,—for, whither thou goest, I will go, and, where thou lodgest, I will lodge, thy people, shall be my people, and, thy God, my God;
where thou diest, I will die, and, there, will I be buried: So, let Yahweh do to me, and, so, let him add, if, death itself, part me and thee.
And, when she saw that, bravely determined, was she to go with her, she ceased entreating her.
So, they two, went their way, until they entered Bethlehem. And it came to pass, when they entered Bethlehem, that all the city was moved concerning them, and the women said—Is this Naomi?
And she said unto them, Do not call me Naomi [="Sweet"],—call me Mara [="Bitter"], for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me:
I was full when I departed, but, empty, am I brought back of Yahweh,—wherefore should ye call me Naomi, when, Yahweh, hath given answer against me, and, the Almighty, hath crushed me?
So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned out of the country of Moab,—and, they, entered Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest.