And Yahweh spake unto Moses, saying:
Speak unto all the assembly of the sons of Israel and thou shalt say unto them—Holy, shall ye be,—For holy, am I—Yahweh—your God
Ye shall, every one, revere, his father and his mother, And my sabbaths, shall ye observe,—I—Yahweh, am your God.
Do not turn unto things of nought, And, molten gods, shall ye not make to yourselves,—I—Yahweh, am your God.
And when ye would offer a peace-offering unto Yahweh, ye shall offer it that ye may be accepted.
On the day, ye offer it, shall it be eaten, and on the morrow,—but, that which remaineth until the third day, in fire, shall be consumed.
And, if it, be eaten, on the third day, unclean, it is it shall not be accepted,
But he that eateth it, his iniquity, shall bear, because that which had been hallowed unto Yahweh, hath he profaned,—so then that person shall be cut off from among his kinsfolk.
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly clear the border of thy field, in reaping,—nor shalt thou gather up the gleaning of thy harvest.
And, thy vineyard, shalt thou not go over again, nor gather, every single grape: for the poor and for the sojourner, shalt thou leave them, I—Yahweh, am your God.
Ye shall not steal,—nor deceive nor lie one man to another;
Nor swear by my name falsely,—And so profane the name of thy God: I, am Yahweh.
Thou shalt not oppress thy neighbour nor rob [him],—The wages of him that is hired shall not tarry with thee, until the morning.
Thou shalt not curse the deaf, Nor, before the blind, place a stumbling-block,—So shalt thou stand in awe of thy God I, am Yahweh.
Ye shall not act perversely in giving judgment, Thou shalt neither respect the person of the poor, Nor prefer the person of the great,—In righteousness, shalt thou judge thy neighbour.
Thou shalt not go about talebearing, among thy people Thou shalt not stand by, over the blood of thy neighbour: I, am Yahweh.
Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart,—Thou shalt, faithfully reprove, thy neighbour, and not countenance him in sin:
Thou shalt not take vengeance neither shalt thou cherish anger against the sons of thy people, So shalt thou love thy neighbour as thyself,—I, am Yahweh.
My statutes, shall ye observe, Thy beasts, shalt thou not cause to breed in two kinds, Thy field, shalt thou not sow with two sorts of seed,—And a garment woven of diverse threads, shalt thou not suffer to come upon thee.
And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, she being a bondmaid, acquired for a husband, and neither, redeemed, nor, freedom, given her, inquisition, shall be made they shall not be put to death, because she was not free;
but he shall bring in his guilt-bearer unto Yahweh, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting,—even a ram as a guilt-bearer;
and the priest shall put a propitiatory-covering over him with the guilt-bearing ram before Yahweh, on account of his sin which he hath committed,—so shall he have forgiveness, from his sin which he hath committed.
And when ye come into the land, and plant any manner of fruit-tree, then shall ye count as uncircumcised the fruit thereof, three years, shall it be to you as if unclean, it shall not be eaten.
But, in the fourth year, all the fruit thereof shall be hallowed for a festival of thanksgiving unto Yahweh.
And in the fifth year, shall ye eat the fruit thereof, that it may enrich you with its increase,—I—Yahweh, am your God.
Ye shall eat nothing with the blood thereof,—Ye shall not practise divination neither shall ye use magic.
Ye shall not shave in a circle around your head,—nor shalt thou disfigure the fringe of thy beard.
Cuttings for a dead person, shall ye not make in your flesh. And punctures in your persons, shall ye not print,—I, am Yahweh.
Do not profane thy daughter by causing her to be unchaste,—lest the land fall to unchastity, and so the land be filled with wickedness.
My sabbaths, shall ye observe, And my sanctuary, shall ye revere,—I, am Yahweh.
Do not turn unto mediums, Nor, for oracles, make search, To render yourselves unclean with them, I—Yahweh, am your God.
Before a hoary head, shalt thou rise up, And shalt honour the presence of an elder,—So shalt thou stand in awe of thy God—I, am Yahweh.
And, when there sojourneth with thee a sojourner in your land, ye shall not oppress him:
As one home born from among yourselves, shall be unto you the sojourner who sojourneth with you, So shalt thou love him as thyself, For, sojourners, became ye, in the land of Egypt,—I—Yahweh, am your God.
Ye shall not act perversely in giving judgment,—in measures of extent, in weights in measures of capacity:
Just balances, just weights, a just ephah and a just hin, shall ye have,—I—Yahweh, am your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt.
Therefore shall ye observe all my statutes and all my regulations and do them,—I, am Yahweh.