And the fifth agent sounded, and I saw a star fallen from the sky to the earth. And the key of the pit of the abyss was given to him.
And he opened the pit of the abyss, and smoke ascended out of the pit, like smoke of a burning furnace. And the sun and the air were darkened from the smoke of the pit.
And locusts came forth out of the smoke upon the earth, and power was given to them, like the scorpions of the earth have power.
And it was told them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, nor anything green, nor any tree, except the men who have not the seal of God on their foreheads.
And it was given them that they would not kill them, but that they would be tormented five months. And their torment was as the torment of a scorpion when it strikes a man.
And in those days men will seek death, and will, no, not find it. And they will long to die, and death will flee from them.
And the likeness of the locusts was similar to horses prepared for battle. And upon their heads were like golden crowns, and their faces were as men's faces.
And they had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were as of lions.
And they had breastplates like iron breastplates. And the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots of many horses running into battle.
And they have tails similar to scorpions, and stings. And in their tails they have power to hurt men five months.
Having a king over them, the agent of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, but in the Greek he has the name Apollyon.
One woe is departed, behold, two woes yet come after these.
And the sixth agent sounded, and I heard a voice, one from the four horns of the golden altar before God,
saying to the sixth agent who has the trumpet, Loose the four agents who have been bound at the great river Euphrates.
And the four agents were loosed, who were prepared for the hour and for the day and month and year, so that they would kill the third part of men.
And the number of the armies of the horsemen was ten thousands of ten thousands. I heard the number of them.
And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and those who sit on them having breastplates fiery red, and hyacinth color, and brimstone. And the heads of the horses are like heads of lions, and out of their mouths come fire and smoke and brimstone.
By these three plagues the third part of men was killed, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone coming out of their mouths.
For the power of the horses is in their mouth, and in their tails. For their tails are similar to serpents, having heads, and by them they injure.
And the rest of the men who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands, so that they would not worship the demons, and the golden and silver and brass and stone and wooden idols, which can neither see nor hear nor walk.
And they did not repent of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.