Woe to her rebelling and being defiled, to the oppressing city!
She did not listen to the voice; she did not receive correction; she did not trust in Jehovah; she did not draw near to her God.
Her rulers within her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves; they do not gnaw bones for the morning.
Her prophets are proud, men of deceit; her priests have profaned the sanctuary; they have done violence to the Law.
The righteous Jehovah is in her midst; He will not act perversely. Every morning He gives His justice to the light; He does not fail, but the unjust knows no shame.
I have cut off nations; their towers are ruined. I made their streets waste, so that none passes by. Their cities are laid waste, without a man, there being no inhabitant.
I said, Surely you will fear Me; you will receive instruction; then her dwelling shall not be cut off, all that I appointed for her. But they rose up early; they corrupted all their doings.
Therefore, wait for Me, declares Jehovah, for the day I rise up to the prey. For My judgment is to gather the nations, for Me to gather the kingdoms, to pour My fury out on them, all My hot anger. For all the earth shall be burned up with the fire of My jealousy.
For then I will give a clear lip to the peoples, to call all of them by the name of Jehovah, to serve Him with one shoulder.
From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, My worshipers, the daughter of My scattered ones, shall bring My food offering.
In that day you shall not be ashamed from all your doings in which you have transgressed against Me. For then I will take away those who rejoice in your pride out of your midst, and you shall not again be proud any more in My holy mountain.
I will also leave a poor and weak people in your midst, and they shall trust in the name of Jehovah.
The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, nor speak lies. And a deceitful tongue shall not be found in their mouth. For they shall feed and lie down, and no one shall frighten them .
Shout for joy, daughter of Zion; shout, Israel! Be glad and rejoice with all the heart, daughter of Jerusalem!
Jehovah has turned off your judgments; He has turned away your enemy. Jehovah, the King of Israel, is in your midst; you shall not fear evil any more.
In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not! Zion, do not let your hands droop.
Jehovah your God is mighty in your midst; He will save. He will rejoice over you with joy; He is silent in His love. He rejoices over you with a joyful shout.
I will gather the afflicted ones from the appointed place; they were from you, a lifting up of reproach over her.
Behold, at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you. And I will save her who is lame, and gather her who was thrust out. And I will give them for a praise and for a name in all the land of their shame.
In that time I will bring you, even in the time I gather you. For I will give you for a name and for a praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I turn back your captivity before your eyes, says Jehovah.