Now it came to pass for him to be going through the grain fields on a particular sabbath, and his disciples were plucking the ears and were eating, rubbing them in their hands.
But some of the Pharisees said to them, Why do ye what is not permitted to do on the sabbath day?
And having answered them, Jesus said, Have ye not read even this, what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him,
how he entered into the house of God, and took and ate the loaves of the presentation, and also gave to those who were with him, which is not permitted to eat, except the priests alone?
And he said to them, The Son of man is lord also of the sabbath.
And it also came to pass on another sabbath for him to enter into the synagogue and teach. And a man was there, and his right hand was withered.
And the scholars and the Pharisees watched if he would heal on the sabbath, so that they might find an accusation against him.
But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man who had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And having risen, he stood up.
Then Jesus said to them, I will question you. What? Is it permitted on the sabbath to do good, or to do harm, to save life, or to kill?
And having looked around on them all, he said to him, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did, and his hand was restored whole as the other.
But they were filled with fury, and deliberated with each other what they might do to Jesus.
And he happened in these days to go out onto the mountain to pray, and he was continuing all night in prayer to God.
And when it became day, he called his disciples, and chose twelve from them, whom he also named apostles:
Simon, whom he also named Peter, and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot,
Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot who also became a traitor.
And having come down with them, he stood on a level place. And a company of his disciples, and a large number of the people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the maritime Tyre and Sidon, were those who came to hear him, and to be healed from their diseases,
also those who were afflicted with unclean spirits. And they were healed.
And all the multitude sought to touch him, because power came forth from him, and healed them all.
And having lifted up his eyes on his disciples, he said, Blessed are the poor, because the kingdom of God is what belongs to you.
Blessed are those who hunger now, because ye will be filled. Blessed are those who weep now, because ye will laugh.
Blessed are ye, when men will hate you, and when they will exclude you, and revile you, and cast out your name as evil, because of the Son of man.
Rejoice ye in that day, and leap, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for their fathers did in the same way to the prophets.
However, woe to you the rich, because ye have received your consolation.
Woe to you who are filled now, because ye will hunger. Woe to you who laugh now, because ye will mourn and weep.
Woe when men will speak well of you, for their fathers did in the same way to the false prophets.
But I say to you, to those who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you.
Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who mistreat you.
To him who strikes thee on the cheek offer the other also, and from him who takes away thy cloak, also do not withhold thy coat.
Give to every man who asks thee, and from him who takes away thy personal things do not demand them back.
And as ye desire that men would do to you, do ye also to them likewise.
And if ye love those who love you, what credit is for you? For even sinners love those who love them.
And if ye do good to those who do good to you, what credit is for you? For even sinners do the same.
And if ye lend to whom ye hope to receive, what credit is for you? For even sinners lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, despairing nothing, and your reward will be great. And ye will be sons of the Most High, because he is good toward the ungrateful and bad.
Become ye therefore merciful, even as your Father is merciful.
And do not criticize, and ye will, no, not be criticized. And do not condemn, and ye will, no, not be condemned. Forgive, and ye will be forgiven.
Give, and it will be given to you, good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, they will give into your bosom. For with the same measure with which ye measure, it will be measured again to you.
And he spoke a parable to them. Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a ditch?
A disciple is not above his teacher, but every disciple who is fully developed will be as his teacher.
And why do thou see the speck in thy brother's eye, but do not perceive the beam in thine own eye?
Or how can thou say to thy brother, Brother, allow me to take out the speck that is in thine eye, when thou thyself do not see the beam in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, first take out the beam from thine own eye, and then thou will see clearly to take out the speck in thy brother's eye.
For a good tree is not producing corrupt fruit, nor a corrupt tree producing good fruit.
For each tree is known from its own fruit. For they do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they harvest grapes from a bramble bush.
The good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth the good, and the bad man out of the bad treasure of his heart brings forth the bad, for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
And why do ye call me, Lord, Lord, and not do the things that I say?
Every man who comes to me, and hears my sayings, and does them, I will show you to whom he is like.
He is like a man who builds a house, who dug and excavated, and laid a foundation upon the rock. And when a flood developed, the stream beat upon that house, and could not shake it, for it had been founded upon the rock.
But he who heard, and not having done, is like a man who built a house upon the soil without a foundation, on which the stream beat, and straightaway it fell. And the ruin of that house became great.