And it came to pass that, after we had separated from them, we put to sea, and came by a straight course to Cos, and on the following day, to Rhodes, and thence to Patara.
And finding a ship that was going to Phenicia, we embarked, and put to sea.
And we came in view of Cyprus; and, leaving it to the left, we sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre: for there the ship was to put off her lading.
And we remained there seven days, after finding the disciples. These urged Paul, by the Spirit, not to go up to Jerusalem.
And when these days were completed, we went forth, and continued our journey, they all, with their wives and children, conducting us out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.
And when we had bid each other farewell, we embarked, and they returned home.
And completing the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais: and having saluted the brethren, we remained with them one day.
On the following day we departed, and came to Cæsarea, and went into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven; and we remained with him.
This man had four virgin daughters, who had the gift of prophesy.
And as we remained there many days, there came down, from Judea, a certain prophet, named Agabus;
and he came to us, and taking Paul’s girdle, he bound his own hands and feet, and said: Thus says the Holy Spirit; the Jews that are in Jerusalem will so bind the man to whom this girdle belongs; and they will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
And when we heard these things, we, and those of that place also, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.
But Paul answered: What do you effect by weeping, and breaking my heart? For I am ready, not only to be bound, but also to suffer death in Jerusalem, for the name of the Lord Jesus.
And as he would not be persuaded, we kept silence, and said: The will of the Lord be done.
And after these days we prepared for our journey, and went up to Jerusalem.
There went with us also some of the disciples from Cæsarea, who took with them, Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge.
And when we came to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.
And, on the following day, Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present.
And when he had saluted them, he related, in every particular, the things which. God had done among the Gentiles by his ministry.
And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said to him: You see, brother, how many myriads of the Jews there are that believe, and they are all zealous for the law.
And they have heard it reported of you, that you teach all the Jews that are among the Gentiles to apostatize from Moses; commanding them not to circumcise their children, nor to walk according to the customs.
What, then, is to be done? A multitude must certainly come together; for they will hear that you have come.
Do, therefore, this which we advise you. We have four men who have a vow on them.
Take them, and join with them in their vow of abstinence, and pay their expenses, in order that they may shave their heads; and all will know that the things which they have heard reported of you are nothing; but that you yourself also walk orderly, and keep the law.
But with respect to the Gentiles that believe, we have written; having decided that they should observe no such thing; but that they keep themselves from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from lewdness.
Then Paul took the men, and, on the following day, joining in their vow of abstinence, he entered the temple, and gave notice when the days of abstinence would be completed, at which time an offering should be made for each of them.
And when the seven days were about to be completed, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, threw all the multitude into confusion, and laid their hands on him,
crying out: Men of Israel, help! this is the man who teaches all men every where against this people, and the law, and this place: and besides, he has even brought Greeks into the temple, and defiled this holy place.
For, before this time, they had seen Trophimus, the Ephesian, with him in the city, whom they supposed Paul had brought into the temple.
And the whole city was moved; and the people ran together, and, seizing Paul, they dragged him out of the temple, and the gates were immediately closed.
And while they were seeking to kill him, report was brought to the officer of the band, that the whole of Jerusalem was in an uproar.
And he immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down to them. When they saw the officer and the soldiers, they ceased beating Paul.
Then the officer came near and took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains, and demanded who he was, and what he had done.
And some in the multitude cried out one thing, and some another. But not being able to obtain any certain knowledge on account of the tumult, he commanded him to be led into the fortress.
And when he was on the steps, it happened that he was carried by the soldiers, on account of the violence of the multitude.
For the greater part of the people followed, crying out: Away with him!
But as Paul was about to be led into the fortress, he said to the officer: May I speak to you? He replied: Do you understand Greek?
Are you not that Egyptian, who, before these days, made an insurrection, and led out into the wilderness four thousand men of the Assassins?
But Paul replied: I am a Jew of Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of no unknown city; and I beseech you, permit me to speak to the people.
And when he had given him permission, Paul, standing upon the steps, waved his hand to the people. And when there was great silence, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying: