AND he said unto them, I tell you of a certainty, that there are some standing here who shall not taste of death, until they see the kingdom of God come with power.
And six days after Jesus taketh with him Peter and James and John, only, and carrieth them up with him into an exceeding high mountain in great privacy; and was transfigured before them.
His garments became glistering, exceeding white, like snow; such as no fuller upon earth can whiten.
And there appeared to him Elias with Moses: and they were conversing with Jesus.
Then Peter addressing him, said unto him, Master, it is desirable for us to be here: and let us erect three tents, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
For he knew not what he should say: for they were very much affrighted.
And there came a cloud overshadowing them: and there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.
And instantly looking round, they saw no man any longer with them, but Jesus only.
And as they were coming down from the mountain, he strictly charged them, that they should tell no man what they had seen, till after the Son of man should have arisen from the dead.
And they caught at that word, considering among themselves what this rising from the dead could mean.
And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes, that Elias must come first?
Then he answering said unto them, Elias indeed cometh first, and will reform all things; and how speaks the scripture of the Son of man? That he must suffer many things, and be treated with contempt.
But I say unto you, that Elias is come, and they have done to him whatsoever they chose, as it is written of him.
And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great crowd around them, and the scribes disputing with them.
And immediately all the multitude, when they beheld him, were struck with amazement, and coming to him, saluted him.
And he asked the scribes, What are ye disputing about among yourselves?
And one of the people addressing him, said, Master, I have brought my son to thee, who hath a dumb spirit;
and wherever he seizeth him, he throws him into strong convulsions: and he foams at the mouth, and grinds his teeth, and pines away. And I spoke to thy disciples, that they should cast him out; and they were unable.
Then addressing him, he said, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with you? bring him to me.
And they brought him unto him. And seeing him, instantly the spirit threw him into convulsions; and falling to the ground, he rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
And he asked his father, For how long a time hath this been the case with him? And he replied, From his infancy.
And often it hath cast him into the fire, and into water, to destroy him: but if thou art able, have compassion upon us, and help us.
Then said Jesus unto him, This is the point: if thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.
And immediately the father of the child said with tears, I believe, Lord! help my unbelief!
Then Jesus, seeing that the multitude were running up to him, rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I command thee, come out of him, and enter into him no more.
And screaming, and convulsing him violently, it came out: and the child lay as if dead; insomuch that many said, He is dead.
But Jesus taking him by the hand, raised him up; and he arose.
And when he was come into the house, the disciples asked him privately, Why could not we cast it out?
And he said to them, this kind can be driven out by nothing but prayer and fasting.
And going from thence, they passed through Galilee: and he would not have any person know it.
For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him: and after being killed, the third day he shall rise again.
But they understood not the meaning of that declaration, and were afraid to ask him.
And he came to Capernaum: and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was the subject of your dispute among yourselves on the road?
But they held their peace. For they had been disputing with each other on the road, which was the greatest.
And when he was seated, he called the twelve, and saith to them, If any man desires to be the first, let him be last of all, and servant of all.
And taking a little boy, he set him in the midst of them: and taking him in his arms, he said unto them,
Whosoever shall receive one of such little children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever receiveth me, receiveth not me merely, but him that sent me.
Then John addressed him, saying, Master, we saw a person in thy name casting out devils, who followeth us not: and we forbad him, because he did not follow us.
Then said Jesus, Forbid him not: for there is no man who shall perform a miracle in my name, who will be able presently after to speak evil of me.
For he that is not against us, is for us.
For whosoever shall give you even a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to the Messiah, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.
And whosoever shall give occasion of offence to one of these little ones who believe in me, it were desirable for him rather that a milestone were hanged about his neck, and that he were cast into the sea.
And if thy hand cause thee to offend, cut it off: it were better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having both hands to go into hell, into the fire that never will be quenched:
where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if thy foot cause thee to offend, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life halting, than having both feet to be cast into hell, into the fire which never can be quenched:
where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if thine eye cause thee to offend, pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into the fire of hell:
where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
For every one shall be salted with fire, and every victim shall be sprinkled with salt.
Salt is good: but if the salt become insipid, with what will you season it? have salt in yourselves, and live in peace with each other.