The word of the LORD came again to me,
Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother.
And they fornicated in Egypt; they whored in their youth, their breasts were handled, and there their virgin nipples were worked.
And their names were Oholah, the oldest, and Oholibah, her sister. And they were Mine, and they bore sons and daughters. And their names: Samaria is Oholah, and Jerusalem is Oholibah.
And Oholah whored under Me. And she lusted after her lovers, to her Assyrian neighbors,
clothed with purple, governors and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding horses.
So she bestowed her harlotries on them, the choice sons of Assyria; with all of them, and with all whom she lusted after; she defiled herself with all their idols.
Nor did she leave her fornications from Egypt. For in her youth they lay with her, and they worked her virgin nipples, and poured their fornications on her.
Therefore I have given her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians on whom she lusted.
They uncovered her nakedness. They took her sons and her daughters and killed her with the sword. And she became notorious among women, and they executed judgment on her.
And her sister Oholibah saw, she was more corrupt in her lust than she, and her fornications were greater than her sister's whoredom.
She lusted to the sons of Assyria, governors and rulers nearby, clothed most perfectly; horsemen riding horses, all of them desirable young men.
And I saw that she was defiled, one way was to both of them.
And she added to her fornications. And she saw men carved on the wall; images of the Chaldeans engraved with vermilion,
girded with girdles on their loins, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them looking like rulers, like the sons of Babylon in Chaldea, the land of their birth;
and she lusted after them, to the look of her eyes, and sent messengers to them into Chaldea.
And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with fornications. And she was defiled with them, and her mind was alienated from them.
So she uncovered her fornications and uncovered her nakedness. And My soul was alienated from her just as My soul was alienated from her sister.
Yet she multiplied her fornications to recall the days of her youth, in which she had played the harlot in the land of Egypt.
And she lusted on her lovers, whose flesh is like the flesh of asses and whose issue is like the issue of horses.
So you longed for the wickedness of your youth, when the Egyptians worked your nipples, for the sake of the breasts of your youth.
So, O Aholibah, the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, I will raise up against you your lovers, from whom your soul is alienated; and I will bring them against you from all around;
the Babylonians, and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them; all of them desirable young men, governors and rulers, all of them, third heads and called ones; all of them riding on horses.
And they shall come against you with weapons, chariots, and wheels, and with an assembly of peoples; buckler and shield and helmet shall set against you all around. And I will set judgment before them, and they shall judge you by their judgments.
And I will set My jealousy against you, and they shall deal with you in fury. They shall take away your nose and your ears, and the rest of you shall fall by the sword. They shall take away your sons and your daughters, and the rest of you shall be devoured by the fire.
They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your beautiful jewels.
So I will make your wickedness to cease from you, and your fornication from the land of Egypt. And you shall not lift up your eyes to them, nor shall you remember Egypt any more.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give you into the hand of those whom you hate, into the hand of whom your soul was alienated, from them.
And they shall deal with you in hatred, and shall take away all your labor, and shall leave you naked and bare. And the nakedness of your fornications shall be uncovered, both your wickedness and your fornications.
These things will be done to you because you have whored after the nations, and because you are defiled with their idols.
You have walked in the way of your sister; therefore I will give her cup into your hand.
So says the Lord Jehovah: You shall drink of your sister's cup deep and large; you shall be laughed to scorn and mocked; for it holds much.
In drunkenness and sorrow you are filled, the cup of horror and ruin, the cup of your sister Samaria.
You shall even drink it and empty it. And you shall break its pieces, and tear off your own breasts. For I have spoken, says the Lord Jehovah.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Because you have forgotten Me and cast Me behind your back, therefore bear also your wickedness and your adulteries.
And the LORD said to me: Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah, and declare to them their abominations,
that they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands? And they have committed adultery with their idols and have also caused their sons whom they bore to Me to pass through the fire to them, to devour them.
And yet they have done this to Me: They have defiled My sanctuary in that day, and have profaned My sabbaths.
And when they had slain their sons to their idols, then they came into My sanctuary in that day to profane it. And lo, this they have done in the midst of My house.
And they have even sent for men to come from far, to whom a messenger was sent. And lo, they came. You washed yourself for them, painted your eyes, and adorned yourself with ornaments,
and sat on a stately bed with a table prepared before it, on which you set My incense and My oil.
And the sound of a crowd was at ease with her; and drunkards from the wilderness were brought with the men of the host of mankind; and they put bracelets on their hands, and crowns of beauty on their heads.
And I said about the one worn in adulteries, Will they now whore with her, and she with them?
And they went in to her, as they go in to a woman of harlotry; so they went in to Oholah and to Oholibah, the wicked women.
And as righteous men, they shall judge them with the judgment of adulteresses, and the judgment of women who shed blood; because they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: I will bring up a company on them, and will give them to be removed and stripped.
And the company shall stone them with stones, and cut them down with their swords. They shall kill their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with fire.
So I will cause wickedness to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught, even not to go after your wickedness.
And they shall put your wickedness on you, and you shall bear the sins of your idols. And you shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.