For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that it was not in vain:
But even after that we had suffered before, and were shamefully pleaded, as all of you know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention.
For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile:
But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, which tries our hearts.
For neither at any time used we flattering words, (o. logos) as all of you know, nor a coat of covetousness; God is witness:
Nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome, as the apostles of Christ.
But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherishes her children:
So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because all of you were dear unto us.
For all of you remember, brethren, our labour and travail: for labouring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, we preached unto you the gospel of God.
All of you are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly and unblameably we behaved ourselves among you that believe:
As all of you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a father does his children,
That all of you would walk worthy of God, who has called you unto his kingdom and glory.
For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because, when all of you received the word (o. logos) of God which all of you heard of us, all of you received it not as the word (o. logos) of men, but as it is in truth, the word (o. logos) of God, which effectually works also in you that believe.
For all of you, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which in Judaea are in Christ Jesus: for all of you also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews:
Who both killed the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us; and they please not God, and are contrary to all men:
Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved, to fill up their sins always: for the wrath has come upon them to the uttermost.
But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavoured the more abundantly to see your face with great desire.
Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once and again; but Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even all of you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?
For all of you are our glory and joy.