And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai in the tabernacle of the congregation on the first of the second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Lift the heads of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, every male, by their heads;
from a son of twenty years and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel. You and Aaron shall number them by their armies.
And there shall be a man of every tribe with you, every one head of his father's house.
And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you: Of Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur;
of Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai;
of Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab;
of Issachar, Nethaneel the son of Zuar;
of Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon;
of the sons of Joseph; of Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud; of Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur;
of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni;
of Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai;
of Asher, Pagiel the son of Ocran;
of Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel;
of Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan.
These were those called from the congregation, rulers of the tribes of their fathers. They were heads of the thousands of Israel.
And Moses and Aaron took these men who were marked out by name.
And they assembled all the congregation on the first of the second month. And they declared their pedigrees according to their families, by their fathers house, according to the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, by their heads.
As Jehovah commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.
And the sons of Reuben, Israel's first-born, their generations by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, by their heads, every male from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Reuben were forty six thousand and five hundred.
Of the sons of Simeon, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, his numbered ones in the number of names, by their heads, every male from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Simeon were fifty nine thousand and three hundred.
Of the sons of Gad, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Gad were forty five thousand and six hundred and fifty.
Of the sons of Judah, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Judah were seventy four thousand and six hundred.
Of the sons of Issachar, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Issachar were fifty four thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Zebulun, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Zebulun were fifty seven thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Joseph, of the sons of Ephraim, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Ephraim were forty thousand and five hundred.
Of the sons of Manasseh, their generations, by their families by their fathers house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Manasseh were thirty two thousand and two hundred.
Of the sons of Benjamin their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Benjamin were thirty five thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Dan, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Dan were sixty two thousand and seven hundred.
Of the sons of Asher, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Asher were forty one thousand and five hundred.
Of the sons of Naphtali, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' house, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone able to go out to war:
those numbered of them for the tribe of Naphtali were fifty three thousand and four hundred.
These were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron numbered, and the rulers of Israel being twelve men; they were each one of his fathers' house.
And all those numbered of the sons of Israel by their fathers' house, from a son of twenty years and upward, all able to go out to war in Israel;
even all those that were numbered were six hundred and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites, according to the tribe of their fathers, were not numbered among them.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
However, you shall not number the tribe of Levi, nor shall you count their heads among the sons of Israel.
But you shall appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all its furniture, and over all that belongs to it. They shall bear the tabernacle, and all its furniture. And they shall serve it, and shall encamp around the tabernacle.
And when the tabernacle goes forward, the Levites shall take it down. And when the tabernacle is to be encamped, the Levites shall set it up. And the stranger that draws near shall be put to death.
And the sons of Israel shall encamp their tents, each man with his own camp, and each man with his own standard, according to their armies.
But the Levites shall encamp around the tabernacle of the testimony, that there be no wrath on the congregation of the sons of Israel. And the Levites shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of the testimony.
And the sons of Israel did according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so they did.