And it shall come to pass, when all these things shall come in upon thee—the blessing and the curse, which I have set before thee,—and thou shalt bring them back unto thy heart among all the nations whither Yahweh thy God hath driven thee;
and thou shalt return unto Yahweh thy God and shalt hearken unto his voice, according to all that I am commanding thee to-day,—thou and thy sons, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,
then will Yahweh thy God bring back thy captivity and have compassion upon thee,—and return and gather thee from among all the peoples whither Yahweh thy God hath scattered thee.
Though thou be driven out unto the utmost part of the heavens, from thence, will Yahweh thy God gather thee, and, from thence will he fetch thee;
and Yahweh thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it,—and he will do thee good and multiply thee beyond thy fathers.
And Yahweh thy God will circumcise thy heart, and the heart of thy seed,—to love Yahweh thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul, that thou mayest live.
And Yahweh thy God will put all these oaths upon thine enemies and upon them who hated thee who persecuted thee.
But, thou, wilt return, and hearken unto the voice of Yahweh,—and wilt do all his commandments, which I am commanding thee, to-day,
And Yahweh thy God will make thee pre-eminent, in every work of thy hand—in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle and in the fruit of thy ground, for good,—for Yahweh will again rejoice over thee for good, as he rejoiced over thy fathers:
if thou hearken unto the voice of Yahweh thy God, to keep his commandments, and his statutes, which are written in this scroll of the law,—if thou return unto Yahweh thy God, with all thy heart and with all thy soul.
For as touching this commandment, which I am commanding thee to-day, it is not, too wonderful, for thee, neither is it far off.
It is, not in the heavens,—that thou shouldest say—Who shall ascend for us into the heavens that he may fetch it for us, that we may hear it, and do it?
Neither is it, over the sea,—that thou shouldest say, Who will pass over for us to the other side of the sea, that he may fetch it for us, that we may hear it, and do it?
But, near unto thee, is the word, exceedingly,—in thy mouth and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it.
See! I have set before thee, to-day, life and prosperity,—and death and calamity;
for thou must keep the commandments of Yahweh thy God which I am commanding thee to-day, to love Yahweh thy God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his statutes, and his regulations,—so shalt thou live and multiply, and Yahweh thy God will bless thee, in the land which thou art entering to possess.
But, if thy heart shall turn away, and thou wilt, not hearken,—but shalt be drawn away, and shalt bow thyself down to other gods and serve them,
I declare unto you, to-day, that ye shall perish,—ye shall not prolong your days, upon the soil which thou art passing over the Jordan to enter and possess.
I call to witness against you to-day, the heavens and the earth, that life and death, have I set before thee, the blessing and the curse,—therefore shouldest thou choose life, that thou mayest live, thou and thy seed;
to love Yahweh thy God, to hearken unto his voice, and to cleave unto him,—for, he, is thy life, and thy length of days, that thou mayest abide upon the soil which Yahweh sware to thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob, to give unto them.