And in the fulfilling of the day of Pentecost, they were all with one accord in one place.
And suddenly a sound came out of the heaven as borne along by the rushing of a mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
And tongues as of fire appeared to them, being distributed; and it sat upon each of them.
And they were all filled of the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other languages, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
And dwelling at Jerusalem there were Jews, devout men out of every nation under heaven.
But this sound occurring, the multitude came together and were confounded, because they each heard them speaking in his own dialect.
And they were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, Behold, are not these who speak all Galileans?
And how do we each hear in our own dialect in which we were born?
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia,
Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya around Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes,
Cretans and Arabians, we hear them speaking the great things of God in our own languages.
And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying to one another, What does this mean?
But others mocking said, These men are full of sweet wine.
But Peter, standing up with the Eleven, lifted up his voice and said to them, Men, Jews, and all who dwell at Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen to my words.
For these are not drunk as you suppose, for it is the third hour of the day.
But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel:
"And it shall be in the last days, says God, I will pour out of My Spirit upon all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams.
And in those days I will pour out My Spirit upon My slaves and My slave women, and they shall prophesy.
And I will give wonders in the heaven above, and miracles on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke.
The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood, before that great and glorious Day of the Lord.
And it shall be that everyone who shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved."
Men, Israelites, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by powerful works, and wonders and miracles, which God did through Him in your midst, as you yourselves also know,
this One given to you by the before-determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken and by lawless hands, crucifying Him, you put Him to death;
whom God raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that He should be held by it.
For David speaks concerning Him, "I foresaw the Lord always before me, because He is at my right hand, that I should not be moved.
Therefore my heart rejoiced and my tongue was glad; and also My flesh shall rest in hope,
because You will not leave My soul in Hades, nor will You allow Your holy One to see corruption.
You revealed to Me the ways of life. You will fill Me with joy with Your countenance."
Men, brothers, it is permitted to say to you with plainness as to the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, He would raise up Christ to sit upon his throne,
seeing this beforehand, he spoke of the resurrection of Christ, that His soul was not left in Hades, nor would His flesh see corruption,
God raised up this Jesus, of which we all are witnesses.
Therefore being exalted to the right of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He has poured out this which you now see and hear.
For David has not ascended into the heavens, but he says himself, "The LORD said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand
until I place Your enemies as a footstool to Your feet."
Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God made this same Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ.
And hearing this, they were stabbed in the heart, and said to Peter and to the other apostles, Men, brothers, what shall we do?
Then Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ to remission of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
For the promise is to you and to your children, and to all those afar off, as many as the Lord our God shall call.
And with many other words he earnestly testified and exhorted, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation.
Then those who gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day there were added about three thousand souls.
And they were continuing steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, and in fellowship and in the breaking of the loaves, and in prayers.
And fear came on every soul. And many wonders and miracles took place through the apostles.
And all who believed were together and had all things common.
And they sold their possessions and goods and distributed them to all, according as anyone had need.
And continuing with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they shared food with gladness and simplicity of heart,
praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved.