I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry.
He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my activities.
And he has put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.
Blessed is that man that makes the LORD his trust, and respects not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.
Many, O LORD my God, are your wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts which are toward us: they cannot be reckoned up in order unto you: if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered.
Sacrifice and offering you did not desire; mine ears have you opened: burnt offering and sin offering have you not required.
Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written of me,
I delight to do your will, O my God: yea, your law is within my heart.
I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O LORD, you know.
I have not hid your righteousness within my heart; I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation: I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great congregation.
Withhold not you your tender mercies from me, O LORD: let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me.
For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart fails me.
Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help me.
Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil.
Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha.
Let all those that seek you rejoice and be glad in you: let such as love your salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.
But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinks upon me: you are my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.