And Iacob dwelt in the lande wherein his father was a straunger yt is to saye in the lande of Canaan.
And these are the generations of Iacob: when Ioseph was .xvij. yere olde he kepte shepe with his brethren and the lad was with the sonnes of Bilha and of Zilpha his fathers wyues. And he brought vnto their father an euyll saynge yt was of them.
And Israel loued Ioseph more than all his childern because he begat hym in his olde age and he made him a coote of many coloures.
When his brothren sawe that their father loued him more than all his brethern they hated him and coude not speke one kynde worde vnto him.
Moreouer Ioseph dreamed a dreawe and tolde it his brethren: wherfore they hated him yet the more.
And he sayde vnto them heare I praye yow this dreame which I haue dreamed:
Beholde we were makynge sheues in the felde: and loo my shefe arose and stode vpright and youres stode rounde aboute and made obeysaunce to my shefe.
Than sayde his brethren vnto him: what shalt thou be oure kynge or shalt thou reigne ouer us? And they hated hi yet the more because of his dreame and of his wordes.
And he dreamed yet another dreame and told it his brethren saynge: beholde I haue had one dreame more: me thought the sonne and the moone and .xi. starres made obaysaunce to me.
And when he had told it vnto his father and his brethern his father rebuked him and sayde vnto him: what meaneth this dreame which thou hast dreamed: shall I and thy mother and thy brethren come and fall on the grounde before the?
And his brethern hated him but his father noted the saynge.
His brethren went to kepe their fathers shepe in Sichem
and Israell sayde vnto Ioseph: do not thy brethern kepe in Sichem? come that I may send ye to the. And he answered here am I
And he sayde vnto him: goo and see whether it be well with thy brethren and the shepe and brynge me worde agayne: And sent him out of the vale of Hebron for to go to Sichem.
And a certayne man founde him wandrynge out of his waye in the felde ad axed him what he soughte.
And he answered: I seke my brethren tell me I praye the where they kepe shepe
And the man sayde they are departed hece for I herde them say let vs goo vnto Dothan. Thus went Ioseph after his brethren and founde them in Dothan.
And whe they sawe him a farr of before he came at them they toke councell agaynst him for to sley him
and sayde one to another Beholde this dreamer cometh
come now and let us sley him and cast him in to some pytt and let vs saye that sonne wiked beast hath deuoured him and let us see what his dreames wyll come to.
When Ruben herde that he wet aboute to ryd him out of their handes and sayde let vs not kyll him.
And Ruben sayde moreouer vnto them shed not his bloude but cast him in to this pytt that is in the wildernes and laye no handes vpon him: for he wolde haue rydd him out of their handes and delyuered him to his father agayne.
And as soone as Ioseph was come vnto his brethren they strypte him out of his gay coote that was vpon him
and they toke him and cast him in to a pytt: But the pytt was emptie and had no water therein.
And they satt them doune to eate brede. And as they lyft vp their eyes and loked aboute there came a companye of Ismaelites from Gilead and their camels lade with spicery baulme and myrre and were goynge doune in to Egipte.
Than sayde Iuda to his brethre what avayleth it that we sley oure brother and kepe his bloude secrett?
come on let vs sell him to the Ismaelites and let not oure handes be defyled vpon him: for he is oure brother and oure flesh. And his brethren were content.
Than as the Madianites marchaunt men passed by they drewe Ioseph out of the pytt and sold him vnto the Ismaelites for .xx. peces of syluer.And they brought him into Egipte.
And when Ruben came agayne vnto the pytt and founde not Ioseph there he rent his cloothes
and went agayne vnto his brethern saynge: the lad is not yonder and whether shall I goo?
And they toke Iosephs coote ad kylled a goote and dypped the coote in the bloud.
And they sent that gay coote and caused it to be brought vnto their father and sayd: This haue we founde: se whether it be thy sones coote or no.
And he knewe it saynge: it is my sonnes coote a wicked beast hath deuoured him and Ioseph is rent in peces.
And Iacob rent his cloothes ad put sacke clothe aboute his loynes and sorowed for his sonne a longe season.
Than came all his sonnes ad all his doughters to comforte him. And he wold not be comforted but sayde: I will go doune in to ye grave vnto my sonne mornynge. And thus his father wepte for him.
And the Madianytes solde him in Egipte vnto Putiphar a lorde of Pharaos: and his chefe marshall.