Man that is born of a woman, is of few days, and full of trouble:
As a flower, he cometh forth—and fadeth, He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.
And yet upon such a one as this, hast thou opened thine eye? And, him, wouldst thou bring into judgment with thee?
Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? Not one!
If determined am his days, the number of his months, is with thee, Fixed times for him, thou hast appointed and he cannot go beyond.
Look sway from him, that he may rest, Till he shall pay off, as a hireling, his day.
Though there is—for a tree—hope,—if it should be cut down, that, again, it will grow, and, the tender branch thereof, will not cease;
If its root, should become old in the earth, and, in the dust, its stock should die:
Through the scent of water, it may break forth, and produce branches like a sapling,
Yet, man, dieth, and is prostrate, Yea the son of earth doth cease to breathe, and where is he?
Waters, have failed from, the sea, and, a river, may waste and dry up;
So, a man, hath lain down, and shall not arise, until there are no heavens, they shall not awake, nor be roused up out of their sleep.
Oh that, in hades, thou wouldst hide me! that thou wouldst keep me secret, until the turn of thine anger, that thou wouldst set for me a fixed time, and remember me:
If a man die, can he live again? All the days of my warfare, would I wait, until my relief should come:—
Thou shouldst call, and, I, would answer thee,—For the work of thine own hand, thou shouldst long.
For, now, my steps, thou countest, Thou wilt not pass over my sin:
Sealed up in a bag, is my transgression, and thou hast glued over mine iniquity.
But, in very deed, a mountain falling, will lie prostrate, or, a rock moved out of its place:
Stones, have been hollowed out by waters, the floods thereof wash away the dust of the earth, and, the hope of mortal man, thou hast destroyed:
Thou dost overpower him utterly, and he departeth, Disfiguring his face, so, hast thou sent him away.
His sons, come to honour, and he knoweth it not, Or they are brought low, and he perceiveth it not of them.
But, his flesh, for himself, is in pain, and, his soul, for himself, doth mourn.