Yea, at this my heart trembles, and is moved out of its place.
Hear, O, hear the noise of his voice, and the sound that goes out of his mouth.
He sends it forth under the whole heaven, and his lightning to the ends of the earth.
After it a voice roars. He thunders with the voice of his majesty, and he does not restrain the lightnings when his voice is heard.
God thunders marvelously with his voice. He does great things which we cannot comprehend.
For he says to the snow, Fall thou on the earth, likewise to the shower of rain, and to the showers of his mighty rain.
He seals up the hand of every man, that all men whom he has made may know it.
Then the beasts go into coverts, and remain in their dens.
Out of the chamber of the south comes the storm, and cold out of the north.
By the breath of God ice is given, and the breadth of the waters is narrowed.
Yea, he loads the thick cloud with moisture. He spreads abroad the cloud of his lightning,
and it is turned round about by his guidance, that they may do whatever he commands them upon the face of the habitable world.
He causes it to come, whether it be for correction, or for his land, or for loving kindness.
Hearken to this, O Job. Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.
Do thou know how God lays his charge upon them, and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
Do thou know the balancing of the clouds, the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge?
How thy garments are warm when the earth is still because of the south wind?
Can thou with him spread out the sky, which is strong as a molten mirror?
Teach us what we shall say to him. We cannot set in array because of darkness.
Shall it be told him that I would speak? Or should a man wish that he were swallowed up?
And now men do not see the light which is bright in the skies, but the wind passes, and clears them.
Out of the north comes golden splendor. God has upon him awesome majesty.
O the Almighty, we cannot find him out. He is excellent in power. And in justice and abundant righteousness he will not afflict.
Men therefore fear him. He does not regard any who are wise of heart.