Neither the priests the Levites [nor] any of the tribe of Levi, shall have either portion or inheritance with Israel,—the altar-flames of Yahweh and his inheritance, shall they eat.
But inheritance, shall he not have, in the midst of his brethren,—Yahweh, is his inheritance, as he spake unto him.
This, therefore shall be the due of the priests from the people from them who offer the sacrifice whether ox or lamb,—there shall be given unto the priest, the shoulder and the two cheeks and the maw:
the firstfruit of thy corn thy new wine and thine oil and the first of the fleece of thy flock, shalt thou give unto him.
For of him, hath Yahweh thy God made choice out of all thy tribes,—to stand to minister in the name of Yahweh of him and his sons all the days.
And when the Levite shall come in out of any of thy gates out of any part of Israel, where he is sojourning,—yea shall come in with all the desire of his soul, into the place which Yahweh shall choose,
then may he minister in the name of Yahweh his God,—like any of his brethren the Levites who are standing there before Yahweh.
Portion for portion, shall they eat,—apart from his possessions upon his patrimony.
When thou art coming into the land which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee, thou shalt not learn to do according to the abominable doings of those nations.
There shall not be found in thy midst—One who causeth his son or his daughter to pass through fire,—Or who useth divination, hidden arts or enchantments Or who muttereth incantations;
Or who bindeth with spells,—Or who asketh of a familiar spirit or an oracle, Or who seeketh unto the dead.
For, an abomination unto Yahweh, is everyone who doeth these things,—and on account of these abominations, is Yahweh thy God dispossessing them from before thee.
Blameless, shalt thou be with, Yahweh thy God;
for, these nations whom thou art dispossessing, unto them who use hidden arts and unto diviners, do hearken, but as for thee, not so, doth Yahweh thy God suffer thee.
A prophet out of thy midst of thy brethren like unto me, will Yahweh thy God, raise up unto thee—unto him, shall ye hearken:
according to all which thou didst ask of Yahweh thy God, in Horeb, in the day of the convocation saying,—Let me no further hearken unto the voice of Yahweh my God, and this great fire, let me not see any more lest I die.
And Yahweh said unto me: They have well said what they have spoken.
A prophet, will I raise up unto them, out of the midst of their brethren, like unto thee,—and I will put my words in his mouth, so shall he speak unto them whatsoever I shall command him.
And it shall come to pass, that, the man who will not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I, myself will require it of him.
Howbeit the prophet who shall presume to speak a word in my name which I have not commanded him to speak, or who shall speak in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die.
And, when thou shalt say in thy heart,—In what manner shall we know the word which Yahweh hath not spoken!?,
When the prophet shall speak in the name of Yahweh and the word shall not come to pass, neither shall come in, that, is the word which Yahweh, hath not spoken,—presumptuously, hath the prophet spoken it, thou shall not be in dread of him.