After these things, I heard as it were, a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying—Hallelujah! The salvation and the glory and the power of our God!
Because, true and righteous, are his judgments; because he hath judged the great harlot, who, indeed, corrupted the earth with her lewdness,—and hath avenged the blood of his servants, at her hand.
And, a second time, have they said—Hallelujah! And, her smoke, ascendeth unto ages of ages.
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures, fell down, and did homage unto God, who sitteth upon the throne, saying—Amen! Hallelujah!
And, a voice, from the throne, came forth, saying—Be giving praise unto our God, all ye his servants, ye that revere him, the small and the great.
And I heard as a voice of a great multitude, and as a voice of many waters, and as a voice of mighty thunderings, saying—Hallelujah! Because the Lord, [our] God, the Almighty, hath become king.
Let us rejoice and exult, and give glory unto him, because the marriage of the Lamb, is come, and, his wife, hath made herself ready;
and it hath been given unto her, that she should be arrayed in fine linen, bright, pure, for, the fine linen, is, the righteous acts of the saints.
And he saith unto me—Write! Happy, they who, unto the marriage supper of the Lamb, have been bidden! And he saith unto me—These words, are, true [words] of God.
And I fell down at his feet, to do him homage; and he saith unto me—See! [thou do it] not! A fellow-servant, am I, of thee and of thy brethren who have the witness of Jesus: unto God, do homage! For, the witness of Jesus, is the spirit of the prophecy.
And I saw heaven, set open, and lo! a white horse, and, he that was sitting thereon, [called] Faithful, and True; and, in righteousness, doth he judge and make war;
and, his eyes, are a flame of fire, and, upon his head, are many diadems, having, a name, written, which, no one, knoweth, but himself,
and arrayed with a mantle sprinkled with blood, and his name hath been called—The Word of God.
And, the armies which were in heaven, were following him, upon white horses, clothed with fine linen, white, pure;
and, out of his mouth, is going forth a sharp sword, that, therewith, he may smite the nations,—and, he, shall shepherd them with a sceptre of iron, and, he, treadeth the wine-press of the wrath of the anger of God the Almighty.
And he hath, upon his mantle and upon his thigh, a name, written—King of kings, and Lord of lords.
And I saw one messenger, standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying, unto all the birds that fly in mid-heaven,—Hither! be gathered together unto the great supper of God,—
that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them who sit upon them, and the flesh of all, both free and bond, and small and great.
And I saw the wild-beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together—to make war with him who was sitting upon the horse, and with his army.
And the wild-beast, was taken, and, with him, the false prophet who wrought the signs before him, whereby he deceived them who received the mark of the wild-beast and them who were doing homage unto his image,—alive, were they two cast into the lake of fire that burneth with brimstone.
And, the rest, were slain with the sword of him that was sitting upon the horse, which went forth out of his mouth, and, all the birds, were filled with their flesh.