For this reason I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles,
since indeed ye heard of the administration of the grace of God, which was given to me for you,
that according to revelation he made known to me the mystery, as I wrote before in brief.
With which reading ye can recognize my understanding in the mystery of the Christ,
which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed by Spirit to his holy apostles and prophets.
For Gentiles to be fellow-heirs, and of the same body, and fellow partakers of his promise in the Christ through the good news.
Of which I became a helper according to the gift of that grace of God, which was given to me according to the working of his power.
To me, a man less than the least of all the sanctified, this grace was given to preach good news among the Gentiles, the unsearchable wealth of Christ,
and to make all men see what is the administration of the mystery hidden from the ages in God who created all things through Jesus Christ.
So that now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known to the principal offices and the positions of authority in the heavenly things, through the church,
according to the purpose of the ages, which he made in Christ Jesus our Lord,
in whom we have boldness and access in confidence through his faith.
Therefore I ask that ye not become discouraged at my tribulations on your behalf, which is your glory.
For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
from whom every patriarchy in heavens and on earth is named.
So that he would grant you, according to the wealth of his glory, to be strengthened with power through his Spirit for the inner man,
for the Christ to dwell in your hearts through faith,
having been rooted and grounded in love, so that ye may be able to grasp with all the sanctified what is the breadth and length and depth and height,
and to become aware of the love of the Christ, which transcends knowledge, so that ye may be filled in all the fullness of God.
Now to him who is able to do above extraordinary-above all things that we ask or think-according to the power that works in us,
to him is the glory in the church in Christ Jesus for all generations of the age of the ages. Truly.