And Bezaleel and Aholiab shall work with everyone wise of heart to whom Jehovah has given wisdom and intelligence, to know how to do every work of the service of the sanctuary, concerning all which Jehovah had commanded.
And Moses called to Bezaleel, and to Aholiab, and to everyone wise of heart, to whom Jehovah had given a heart of wisdom, everyone whose heart had lifted him up to come near the work, to do it.
And they took every offering before Moses which the sons of Israel had brought for the work of the service in the holy place, to do it. And they brought to him still more willing offerings morning by morning.
And all the wise men came, those doing every kind of work for the sanctuary, each one from his work they were doing.
And they spoke to Moses, saying, The people are bringing more than enough for the service of the work that Jehovah commanded, to do it.
And Moses commanded, and they caused it to be voiced in the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more offering for the sanctuary; and the people were held back from bringing.
And their property was sufficient for all the work, to do it, and it was too much.
And every wise-hearted one among the doers of the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains, twined, bleached linen , and blue, and purple, and crimson; he made them with cherubs, the work of an artisan.
The length of one curtain was twenty eight by the cubit; and the width was four by the cubit; the one curtain was the same measure for all the curtains.
And he joined five curtains one to another; and he joined five curtains one to another.
And he made loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain, from the end to the juncture; so he did at the edge of the last curtain at the second juncture.
He made fifty loops on one curtain; and he made fifty loops on the end of the curtain which was at the second juncture; the loops corresponded, one with another.
And he made fifty hooks of gold; and he joined the curtains by the hooks, one to another. And the tabernacle became one.
And he made curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; he made them eleven curtains.
The length of the one curtain was thirty by the cubit, and four cubits the width of the one curtain; one measure to the eleven curtains.
And he joined the five curtains separately, and the six curtains separately.
And he made fifty loops on the edge of the last curtain at the juncture; and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that joined the second.
And he made fifty bronze hooks to join the tent, to unite it in one.
And he made a cover for the tent of rams' skins dyed red; and a cover of dugong skins from above.
And he made the boards for the tabernacle, standing planks of acacia wood.
The length of the board was ten cubits, and a cubit and a half was the width of the one board.
The one board was connected by two pins, one to another; so he did to all the boards of the tabernacle.
And he made the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side southward.
And he made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under the one board for its two pins.
And for the second side of the tabernacle, to the north side, he made twenty boards,
and their forty silver sockets; two sockets under the one board, and two sockets under the other board.
And he made six boards for the sides of the tabernacle westward.
And he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle, in the sides.
And they were double from below, and in like manner they were complete to its top, to the first ring. So he did to both of them, for the two corners.
And there were eight boards, and their silver sockets, sixteen sockets; two sockets and two sockets under the one board.
And he made bars of acacia wood; five to the boards of the second side of the tabernacle;
and five bars to the boards of the sides of the tabernacle westward.
And he made the middle bar to go through the middle of the boards, from end to end.
And he overlaid the boards with gold. And he made the rings gold, housing for the poles; and he overlaid the bars with gold.
And he made a veil of blue, and purple, and crimson, and twined, bleached linen . He made it the work of an artisan, with cherubs
And he made four pillars of acacia for it. And he overlaid them with gold, their hooks gold; and he cast four sockets of silver for them.
And he made a screen for the door of the tabernacle, blue, and purple, and crimson, and twined, bleached linen , the work of an embroiderer;
and its five pillars, and their hooks; and the overlaid their tops and their bands with gold; and their five sockets bronze.