O give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good, for his loving kindness is forever.
Let Israel now say that his loving kindness is forever.
Let the house of Aaron now say that his loving kindness is forever.
Let those now who fear Jehovah say that his loving kindness is forever.
Out of my distress I called upon Jehovah. Jehovah answered me upon a large place.
Jehovah is on my side, I will not fear. What can man do to me?
Jehovah is on my side among those who help me. Therefore I shall look upon those who hate me.
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah than to put confidence in man.
It is better to take refuge in Jehovah than to put confidence in rulers.
All nations encompassed me around. In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
They encompassed me around, yea, they encompassed me around. In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
They encompassed me around like bees. They are quenched as the fire of thorns. In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
Thou thrusted greatly at me that I might fall, but Jehovah helped me.
Jehovah is my strength and song, and he has become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of Jehovah does valiantly.
The right hand of Jehovah is exalted. The right hand of Jehovah does valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of Jehovah.
Jehovah has chastened me greatly, but he has not given me over to death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will enter into them. I will give thanks to Jehovah.
This is the gate of Jehovah. The righteous shall enter into it.
I will give thanks to thee, for thou have answered me, and have become my salvation.
The stone which the builders rejected has become the head of the corner.
This is Jehovah's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes.
This is the day which Jehovah has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it.
Save now, we beseech thee, O Jehovah. O Jehovah, we beseech thee, send now prosperity.
Blessed be he who comes in the name of Jehovah. We have blessed you out of the house of Jehovah.
Jehovah is God, and he has given us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar.
Thou are my God, and I will give thanks to thee. Thou are my God, I will exalt thee.
O give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good, for his loving kindness is forever.