Do not let your heart be troubled; you believe in God, believe also in Me.
In My Father's house are many dwelling places. But if it were not so , I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you!
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I am coming again and will receive you to Myself, that where I am you may be also.
And where I go you know, and the way you know.
Thomas said to Him, Lord, we do not know where You go, and how can we know the way?
Jesus said to him, I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. No one comes to the Father except through Me.
If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and from now on you do know Him, and have seen Him.
And Philip said to Him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.
Jesus said to him, Am I so long a time with you, and you have not known Me, Philip? The one seeing Me has seen the Father! And how do you say, Show us the Father?
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me? The words which I speak to you I do not speak from Myself, but the Father who abides in Me, He does the works.
Believe Me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in Me; but if not, believe Me because of the works themselves.
Indeed, I tell you truly, He that believes in Me, the works which I do, that one shall do also, and greater than these he will do, because I go to My Father.
And whatever you may ask in My Name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
If you ask anything in My Name, I will do it .
If you love Me, keep My commandments.
And I will petition the Father, and He will give you another Comforter, that He may remain with you forever,
the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not see Him nor know Him. But you know Him, for He abides with you and shall be in you.
I will not leave you orphans; I am coming to you.
Yet a little while and the world no longer sees Me, but you see Me. Because I live, you also shall live.
In that day you shall know that I am in My Father, and you are in Me, and I am in you.
He that has My commandments and keeps them, it is that one who loves Me; and the one that loves Me shall be loved by My Father, and I shall love him and will reveal Myself to him.
Judas said to Him, not the Iscariot, Lord, what has happened that You are about to reveal Yourself to us and not at all to the world?
Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves Me, he will keep My Word, and My Father shall love him. And We will come to him and will make a dwelling place with him.
The one who does not love Me does not keep My words. And the Word which you hear is not Mine but of the Father who sent Me.
I have spoken these things to you, abiding with you;
but the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He shall teach you all things and shall remind you of all things that I said to you.
I leave peace to you; My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor let it be timid.
You heard that I said to you, I am going away, and I am coming again to you. If you loved Me, you would have rejoiced that I said, I am going to the Father; for My Father is greater than I.
And now I have told you before it occurs, that when it shall occur you may believe.
I shall no longer speak many things with you, for the ruler of this world is coming, and he has nothing in Me.
But that the world may know that I love the Father, even as the Father commanded Me, so I do. Rise up, let us go from here.