So all Israel enrolled themselves. And behold, they were written in the book of the kings of Israel. And Judah was exiled to Babylon for their sins.
And the first people in their possessions in their cities were the Israelites, the priests, Levites, and the temple slaves.
And in Jerusalem lived of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin, and of the sons of Ephraim, and Manasseh:
Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the sons of Pharez the son of Judah.
And of the Shilonites, Asaiah the first-born and his sons.
And of the sons of Zerah, Jeuel, and their brothers, six hundred and ninety.
And of the sons of Benjamin, Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hasenuah,
and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephathiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah,
and their brothers, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty-six. All these men were chief of the fathers to their fathers' house.
And of the priests, Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin,
and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God,
and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasiai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer,
and their brothers, heads of their fathers' house, seventeen hundred and sixty very able men for the work of the service of the house of God.
And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari,
and Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Micah, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph,
and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites.
And the gatekeepers were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman; and their brothers, Shallum was the chief.
And before they were at the king's gate eastward, they were gatekeepers in the companies of the sons of Levi.
And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers, of the house of his father, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of the tabernacle. And their fathers  were over the army of the LORD, keepers of the entry.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the ruler over them in time past, and the LORD was with him.
Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
All these chosen for gatekeepers in the gates were two hundred and twelve. These by their genealogies, in their villages, were the ones David and Samuel the seer ordained in their set office.
So they and their sons were over the gates of the house of the LORD, the house of the tabernacle, by watches.
The gatekeepers were to the four quarters, toward the east, west, north, and south.
And their brothers in their villages, were to come in for seven days from time to time with them.
For they were in faithfulness, the four chief gatekeepers; they were Levites, and were over the rooms, and over the treasuries of the house of God.
And they lived around the house of God, because the duty was on them. And they were to open it morning by morning.
And certain of them were over the ministering vessels, that they should bring them in and out by count.
Some of them also were appointed to oversee the vessels and all the instruments of the sanctuary, and the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.
And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of the spices.
And Mattithiah, of the Levites, who was the first-born of Shallum the Korahite, was faithful over the work of the pans.
And others of the sons of the Kohathites, from among their brothers, were over the showbread, to prepare sabbath by sabbath.
And these were the singers, chief of the fathers of the Levites in the chambers, they were free of duty, for they were employed in that work day and night.
These chief fathers of the Levites were chief throughout their generations. These lived at Jerusalem.
And Jehiel, the father of Gibeon, lived in Gibeon. His wife's name was Maachah.
And his first-born son was Abdon, then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
And Mikloth fathered Shimeam. And they also dwelt with their brothers at Jerusalem, across from their brothers.
And Ner fathered Kish. And Kish fathered Saul. And Saul fathered Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal. And Meribbaal fathered Micah.
And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz;
and Ahaz; fathered Jarah. And Jarah fathered Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza.
And Moza fathered Binea; and Rephaiah was his son; Eleasah, his son; Azel his son.
And to Azel were six sons, and these their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel.