And, at that time, will Michael, the great ruler who standeth for the sons of thy people, make a stand, and there will be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation, up to that time,—and, at that time, shall thy people, be delivered, every one found written in the book;
and, many of the sleepers in the dusty ground, shall awake,—these, [shall be] to age-abiding life, but, those, to reproach, and age-abiding abhorrence;
and, they who make wise, shall shine like the shining of the expanse,—and, they who bring the many to righteousness, like the stars to times age-abiding and beyond.
But, thou, Daniel, close up the words, and seal the book, until the time of the end,—many will run to and fro, and knowledge, shall abound.
Then, I, Daniel, looked, and lo! two others, standing,—one on this side of the bank of the river, and one on that side of the bank of the river.
And one said to the man clothed with linen, who was upon the waters of the river, How long shall be the end of the wonders?
And I heard the man clothed with linen who was upon the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left unto the heavens, and sware by him that liveth unto times age-abiding,—For a set time and times and a half, and, when the dispersion of a part of the holy people, is brought to an end, then shall come to an end all these things.
And, I, heard, but could not understand,—so I said, O my lord! what shall be the issue of these things?
Then said he, Go thy way, Daniel; for closed up and sealed are the words, until the time of the end.
Many, will purify themselves and be made white and be refined, but the lawless, will act lawlessly, and none of the lawless, shall understand,—but, they who make wise, shall understand;
and, from the time of the taking away of the continual [ascending-sacrifice], and the placing of the horrid abomination that astoundeth, [shall be] one thousand two hundred and ninety days.
Happy! is he that waiteth, and attaineth to one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days.
But, thou, go thy way to the end,—and thou shalt rest, and shalt rise to thy lot at the end of the days.