For I want you to know how great a struggle I have concerning you, and those in Laodicea, and as many as have not seen my face in the flesh,
that their hearts may be comforted, being joined together in love, and to all riches of the full assurance of the understanding, to the full knowledge of the mystery of God, even of the Father and of Christ,
in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and of knowledge.
And I say this that no one may beguile you with persuasive words.
For though I am indeed absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing and seeing your order and the firmness of your faith in Christ.
Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, walk in Him,
having been rooted and built up in Him, and having been confirmed in the faith, even as you were taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving.
Watch that there not be one robbing you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the elements of the world, and not according to Christ.
For in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily;
and having been filled, you are in Him, who is the Head of all rule and authority,
in whom also you were circumcised with a circumcision not made by hands, in the putting off of the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ,
being buried with Him in baptism, in whom also you were raised through the faith of the working of God, raising Him from among the dead.
And you, being dead in the offenses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, He made alive together with Him, having forgiven you all the offenses,
blotting out the handwriting in the ordinances against us, which was contrary to us, even He has taken it out of the midst, nailing it to the cross;
having stripped the rulers and the authorities, He made a show of them in public, triumphing over them in it.
Then do not let anyone judge you in eating, or in drinking, or in respect of a feast, or the new moon, or of sabbaths,
which are a shadow of coming things, but the body is of Christ.
Let no one condemn you, delighting in humility and worship of the angels, pushing into things which he has not seen, being puffed up by the mind of his flesh without a cause,
and not holding fast the Head, from whom all the body having been supplied through the joints and bands, and having been joined together, will grow with the growth of God.
If, then, you died with Christ from the elements of the world, why are you under its decrees, as living in the world?
Do not handle, do not taste, do not touch,
These things are all to rot away in the using, according to the "injunctions and teachings of men." Isa. 29:13
Which things indeed have a reputation of wisdom in self-imposed worship and humility, and unsparing severity of the body, not in any honor with respect to gratification of the flesh.