My sonne, keepe my wordes, and hide my commandements with thee.
Keepe my commandements, and thou shalt liue, and mine instruction as the apple of thine eyes.
Binde them vpon thy fingers, and write them vpon the table of thine heart.
Say vnto wisedome, Thou art my sister: and call vnderstanding thy kinswoman,
That they may keepe thee from the strange woman, euen from the stranger that is smoothe in her wordes.
As I was in the window of mine house, I looked through my windowe,
And I sawe among the fooles, and considered among the children a yong man destitute of vnderstanding,
Who passed through the streete by her corner, and went toward her house,
In the twilight in the euening, when the night began to be blacke and darke.
And beholde, there met him a woman with an harlots behauiour, and subtill in heart.
(She is babling and loud: whose feete can not abide in her house.
Nowe she is without, nowe in the streetes, and lyeth in waite at euery corner)
So she caught him and kissed him and with an impudent face said vnto him,
I haue peace offerings: this day haue I payed my vowes.
Therefore came I forth to meete thee, that I might seeke thy face: and I haue found thee.
I haue deckt my bed with ornaments, carpets and laces of Egypt.
I haue perfumed my bedde with myrrhe, aloes, and cynamom.
Come, let vs take our fill of loue vntill the morning: let vs take our pleasure in daliance.
For mine husband is not at home: he is gone a iourney farre off.
He hath taken with him a bagge of siluer, and will come home at the day appointed.
Thus with her great craft she caused him to yeelde, and with her flattering lips she entised him.
And he followed her straight wayes, as an oxe that goeth to the slaughter, and as a foole to the stockes for correction,
Till a dart strike through his liuer, as a bird hasteth to the snare, not knowing that he is in danger.
Heare me now therefore, O children, and hearken to the wordes of my mouth.
Let not thine heart decline to her wayes: wander thou not in her paths.
For shee hath caused many to fall downe wounded, and the strong men are all slaine by her.
Her house is the way vnto ye graue, which goeth downe to the chambers of death.