And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel, and say to them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet smell to me, shall you observe to offer to me in their due season.
And you shall say to them, This is the offering made by fire which you shall offer to the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
The one lamb shall you offer in the morning, and the other lamb shall you offer at even;
And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.
It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet smell, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD.
And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shall you cause the strong wine to be poured to the LORD for a drink offering.
And the other lamb shall you offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, you shall offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet smell to the LORD.   ¶
And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof:
This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.   ¶
And in the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;
And three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering to one lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet smell, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD.
And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine to a bullock, and the third part of an hin to a ram, and a fourth part of an hin to a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering to the LORD shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD.
And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
In the first day shall be an holy convocation; you shall do no manner of servile work therein:
But you shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering to the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be to you without blemish:
And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall you offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram;
A several tenth deal shall you offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
And one goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.
You shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
After this manner you shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet smell to the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
And on the seventh day you shall have an holy convocation; you shall do no servile work.   ¶
Also in the day of the first fruits, when you bring a new meat offering to the LORD, after your weeks be out, you shall have an holy convocation; you shall do no servile work:
But you shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet smell to the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;
And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to one bullock, two tenth deals to one ram,
A several tenth deal to one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;
And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.
You shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be to you without blemish) and their drink offerings.