In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria, seventeen years.
And he did the evil in the sight of the LORD, and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. And he did not depart from them.
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and He delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and into the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael, all their days.
And Jehoahaz sought the LORD, and the LORD listened to him. For He saw the oppression of Israel, because the king of Syria oppressed them.
And the LORD gave Israel a deliverer, so that they went out from under the Syrians. And the sons of Israel lived in their tents, as before.
But they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who made Israel to sin, but walked in them. And also the Asherah in Samaria stood.
For He had not left a people remaining to Jehoahaz, but only fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Syria had destroyed them and had made them like the dust at threshing-time.
And the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers. And they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoash his son reigned in his place.
In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz began to reign over Israel in Samaria, sixteen years.
And he did the evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, but he walked in them.
And the rest of the acts of Jehoash, and all that he did, and his might which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Israel?
And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam sat on his throne. And Jehoash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.
And Elisha had fallen sick with his illness in which he died. And Jehoash the king of Israel came down to him and wept over his face. And he said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen of it!
And Elisha said to him, Take bow and arrows. And he took bow and arrows to himself.
And he said to the king of Israel, Put your hand on the bow. And he placed his hand. And Elisha put his hands on the king's hands.
And he said, Open the window eastward. And he opened. And Elisha said, Shoot! And he shot. And he said, The arrow of the LORD's deliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria. For you shall strike the Syrians in Aphek until it is finished.
And he said, Take the arrows. And he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, Strike on the ground. And he struck three times and stopped.
And the man of God was angry with him, and said, You should have stricken five or six times, then you would have stricken Syria until it was finished. But now you shall strike Syria three times.
And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at first of the year.
And it happened as they were burying a man, behold, they spied a band. And they threw the man into the grave of Elisha. And the man went down and touched the bones of Elisha, and revived and stood up on his feet.
But Hazael, the king of Syria, oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
And the LORD was gracious to them, and had pity on them, and had respect to them, because of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And He would not destroy them, nor cast them from His presence as yet.
And Hazael king of Syria died. And his son Ben-hadad reigned in his place.
And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz returned and took out of the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities which he had taken out of the hand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Jehoash beat him three times and recovered the cities of Israel.