And the Philistines gathered all their armies to Aphek. And Israel was camped at a fountain in Jezreel.
And the Philistine rulers were passing on by hundreds and by thousands. And David and his men were passing on in the rear with Achish.
And the Philistine rulers said, What are these Hebrews? And Achish said to the Philistine rulers, Is this not David the servant of Saul the king of Israel who has been with me these days and years? And I have not found anything evil in him from the day he fell away until today.
And the Philistine rulers were angry against him. And the Philistine rulers said to him, Send the man back, and he shall return to his place where you have appointed him. And he shall not go down with us into battle, and shall not become a foe to us in battle. And with what should this one give pleasure to his master, if not with the heads of these men?
Is this not David, of whom they answer in dances, saying, Saul has killed his thousands, and David his myriads?
And Achish called David and said to him, As Jehovah lives, Surely you are upright and good in my eyes in your going out and in your coming in with me in the camp. For I have not found evil in you from the day of your coming in to me until today. But you are not good in the eyes of the rulers.
And now return, and go in peace, that you not do evil in the eyes of the rulers of the Philistines.
And David said to Achish, But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant from the day that I have been in your presence until today, that I may not go in and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And Achish replied and said to David, I know that you are good in my eyes, like an angel of God. But the rulers of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us into battle.
And now, you and the servants of your lord who have come with you rise early in the morning. When you have light, then go.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to go in the morning, to return to the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.