I am the man, that hath seene affliction in the rod of his indignation.
He hath ledde mee, and brought me into darkenes, but not to light.
Surely he is turned against me: he turneth his hand against me all the day.
My flesh and my skinne hath he caused to waxe olde, and he hath broken my bones.
He hath builded against me, and compassed me with gall, and labour.
He hath set me in darke places, as they that be dead for euer.
He hath hedged about mee, that I cannot get out: he hath made my chaines heauy.
Also when I cry and showte, hee shutteth out my prayer.
He hath stopped vp my wayes with hewen stone, and turned away my paths.
He was vnto me as a beare lying in waite, and as a Lion in secret places.
He hath stopped my wayes, and pulled me in pieces: he hath made me desolate.
He hath bent his bow and made me a marke for the arrow.
Hee caused the arrowes of his quiuer to enter into my reines.
I was a derision to all my people, and their song all the day.
He hath filled me with bitternes, and made me drunken with wormewood.
He hath also broken my teeth with stones, and hath couered me with ashes.
Thus my soule was farre off from peace: I forgate prosperitie,
And I saide, My strength and mine hope is perished from the Lord,
Remembring mine affliction, and my mourning, the wormewood and the gall.
My soule hath them in remembrance, and is humbled in me.
I consider this in mine heart: therefore haue I hope.
It is the Lordes mercies that wee are not consumed, because his compassions faile not.
They are renued euery morning: great is thy faithfulnesse.
The Lord is my portion, sayth my soule: therefore wil I hope in him.
The Lord is good vnto them, that trust in him, and to the soule that seeketh him.
It is good both to trust, and to waite for the saluation of the Lord.
It is good for a man that he beare the yoke in his youth.
He sitteth alone, and keepeth silence, because he hath borne it vpon him.
He putteth his mouth in the dust, if there may be hope.
Hee giueth his cheeke to him that smiteth him: he is filled full with reproches.
For the Lord will not forsake for euer.
But though he sende affliction, yet will he haue compassion according to the multitude of his mercies.
For he doeth not punish willingly, nor afflict the children of men,
In stamping vnder his feete all the prisoners of the earth,
In ouerthrowing the right of a man before the face of the most high,
In subuerting a man in his cause: the Lord seeth it not.
Who is he then that sayth, and it commeth to passe, and the Lord commandeth it not?
Out of the mouth of the most high proceedeth not euill and good?
Wherefore then is the liuing man sorowfull? man suffreth for his sinne.
Let vs search and try our wayes, and turne againe to the Lord.
Let vs lift vp our hearts with our handes vnto God in the heauens.
We haue sinned, and haue rebelled, therefore thou hast not spared.
Thou hast couered vs with wrath, and persecuted vs: thou hast slaine and not spared.
Thou hast couered thy selfe with a cloude, that our prayer should not passe through.
Thou hast made vs as the ofscouring and refuse in the middes of the people.
All our enemies haue opened their mouth against vs.
Feare, and a snare is come vpon vs with desolation and destruction.
Mine eye casteth out riuers of water, for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Mine eye droppeth without stay and ceaseth not,
Till the Lord looke downe, and beholde from heauen.
Mine eye breaketh mine heart because of all the daughters of my citie.
Mine enemies chased me sore like a birde, without cause.
They haue shut vp my life in the dungeon, and cast a stone vpon me.
Waters flowed ouer mine head, then thought I, I am destroyed.
I called vpon thy Name, O Lord, out of the lowe dungeon.
Thou hast heard my voyce: stoppe not thine eare from my sigh and from my cry.
Thou drewest neere in the day that I called vpon thee: thou saydest, Feare not.
O Lord, thou hast maintained the cause of my soule, and hast redeemed my life.
O Lord, thou hast seene my wrong, iudge thou my cause.
Thou hast seene all their vengeance, and all their deuises against me.
Thou hast heard their reproch, O Lord, and all their imaginations against me:
The lippes also of those that rose against me, and their whispering against me continually.
Behold, their sitting downe and their rising vp, how I am their song.
Giue them a recompence, O Lord, according to the worke of their handes.
Giue them sorow of heart, euen thy curse to them.
Persecute with wrath and destroy them from vnder the heauen, O Lord.