And Jehovah spoke to Moses, Depart, go up from here, thou and the people that thou have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, To thy seed will I give it.
And I will send an agent before thee, and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite-
to a land flowing with milk and honey. For I will not go up in the midst of thee, for thou are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume thee on the way.
And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned, and no man put his ornaments on him.
And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to the sons of Israel, Ye are a stiff-necked people. If I go up into the midst of thee for one moment, I shall consume thee. Therefore now put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do to thee.
And the sons of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments from mount Horeb onward.
Now Moses used to take the tent and to pitch it outside the camp, afar off from the camp, and he called it, The tent of meeting. And it came to pass, that everyone who sought Jehovah went out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp.
And it came to pass, when Moses went out to the tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, every man at his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tent.
And it came to pass, when Moses entered into the tent, the pillar of cloud descended, and stood at the door of the tent, and Jehovah spoke with Moses.
And all the people saw the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the tent. And all the people rose up and worshiped, every man at his tent door.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend, and he turned again into the camp. But his minister Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not depart out of the tent.
And Moses said to Jehovah, See, thou say to me, Bring up this people, and thou have not let me know whom thou will send with me. Yet thou have said, I know thee by name, and thou have also found favor in my sight.
Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found favor in thy sight, show me now thy ways, that I may know thee, to the end that I may find favor in thy sight. And consider that this nation is thy people.
And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest.
And Moses said to him, If thy presence go not, do not carry us up from here.
For how shall it now be known that I have found favor in thy sight, I and thy people? Is it not in that thou go with us, so that we are separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth?
And Jehovah said to Moses, I will do this thing also that thou have spoken, for thou have found favor in my sight, and I know thee by name.
And he said, Show me, I pray thee, thy glory.
And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and will proclaim the name of Jehovah before thee. I will be merciful to whom I may be merciful, and I will be compassionate to whomever I may be compassionate.
And he said, Thou cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live.
And Jehovah said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shall stand upon the rock.
And it shall come to pass, while my glory passes by, that I will put thee in a cleft of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand until I have passed by.
And I will take away my hand, and thou shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen.