And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made his youngest son Ahaziah king in his place (for all the first ones had been slain by the troop that came in with the Arabians to the battle) and Ahaziah the son of Jehoram the king of Judah reigned.
Ahaziah was a son of forty two years when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother was Athaliah the daughter of Omri.
He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor to do evilly.
And he did evil in the eyes of Jehovah, like the house of Ahab, for they were his counselors after the death of his father, for his destruction.
He also walked in their counsel, and went with Joram the son of Ahab the king of Israel to battle against Hazael the king of Syria, in Ramoth-gilead; and the Syrians struck Jehoram;
and he returned to be healed in Jezreel, because of the wounds with which they had stricken him in Ramah, when fighting with Hazael the king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram the king of Judah, went down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, for he was ill.
Now, the destruction of Ahaziah was from God, for coming to Jehoram; and when he had come he went out with Jehoram to Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom Jehovah had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.
And it happened, when Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, that he found the leaders of Judah, and the sons of the brothers of Ahaziah, the servants of Ahaziah, and killed them.
And he sought out Ahaziah, and they captured him (and he was hiding himself in Samaria) and brought him to Jehu, and put him to death, and buried him; for they said, He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought Jehovah with all his heart. And there was none in the house of Ahaziah to retain power for the kingdom.
And Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, and she rose up and spoke to destroy all the seed of the kingdom of the house of Judah.
And Jehoshabeath the daughter of the king took Joash the son of Ahaziah and stole him from among the sons of the king who were put to death, and put him and his nurse into the store room of the bedroom. And Jehoshabeath, the daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, because she was the sister of Ahaziah, hid him from the face of Athaliah; and she did not put him to death.
And he was with them in the house of God hiding himself six years, and Athaliah reigned over the land.