And the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the house of Dagon, and set it near Dagon.
And the men of Ashdod rose early on the next day. And, behold! Dagon had fallen on its face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah! And they took Dagon and put it back in its place.
And they rose early in the morning on the next day; and, behold! Dagon had fallen on its face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the two palms of its hands, were cut off at the threshold. Only the flat part had been left to him.
On account of this the priests of Dagon, and all those coming into the house of Dagon, do not step on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod until this day.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy on the men of Ashdod. And He wasted them, and struck them with hemorrhoids, Ashdod and its borders.
And the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, and said, The ark of God of Israel shall not remain with us, for His hand has been hard on us, and on our god Dagon.
And they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines to them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel go around to Gath. And they brought around the ark of the God of Israel.
And it happened after they had brought it around, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great destruction. And He struck the men of the city, from the least to the greatest; and hemorrhoids broke forth in them.
And they sent the ark of God around to Ekron. And it happened as the ark of God came into Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought around the ark of the God of Israel to me to put me to death, even my people.
And they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to its place. And it shall not put me to death, even my people. For there had been a great destruction throughout all the city. The hand of God had been very heavy there.
And the men who had not died were stricken with hemorrhoids. And the cry of the city went up to the heavens.