The lazy man is pelted with a dirty stone, and all will speak about his rejection.
The lazy man is pelted with the dung of oxen, and all who touch him will brush off their hands.
An undisciplined son is the shame of his father, but an undisciplined daughter will be to his degradation.
A prudent daughter brings an inheritance to her husband. But she who causes shame will be a disgrace to him who conceived her.
She who is bold shames her father and her husband, and she will not be less offensive to the impious. For she will be held in dishonor by both.
An untimely explanation is like music in a time of mourning. But the sharp correction and doctrine of wisdom are ever timely.
Whoever teaches the foolish is like someone who glues together a broken pot.
Whoever explains a word to one who is not listening is like someone who suddenly awakens a sleeping person from a deep sleep.
Whoever explains wisdom to the senseless is like one speaking to a sleeping person. And at the end of the explanation, he says: “Who is this?”
Weep over the dead, for his light has failed. And weep over the foolish, for his understanding has failed.
Weep only a little over the dead, for he is at rest.
But the wicked life of a wicked fool is worse than death.
The mourning for the dead is seven days; but for the foolish and the impious, it is all the days of their life.
You should not talk at length with the foolish, and you should not go with the senseless.
Keep yourself from him, so that you may not have problems, and so that you will not be polluted by his sin.
Turn away from him, and you will find rest, and you will not be discouraged by his foolishness.
What is heavier than lead? And what else can he be called but foolish?
Sand, and salt, and an iron weight are each easier to bear than an imprudent man, who is both foolish and impious.
A bundle of wood strapped together in the foundation of a building will not be loosened. And similar is the heart that has been strengthened by thoughtful counsel.
The thoughts of one who is understanding will not be corrupted by fear in any situation.
Just as chaff in a high place, or a wall made of mortar without stones set within, will not continue against the face of the wind,
so also a timid heart, and the thoughts of the senseless, will not withstand the forcefulness of fear.
Despite a cowardly heart, the thoughts of the foolish will not fear any situation; yet neither will one who continues always in the precepts of God.
He who jabs an eye produces tears. And he who jabs the heart produces understanding.
He who throws a stone at birds will drive them away. So also, he who accuses his friend dissolves the friendship.
But if you have drawn a sword against a friend, you should not despair; for there may be a way back.
If you have opened a harsh mouth against a friend, you should not fear; for there may be a reconciliation. However, if there are accusations, or abuse, or arrogance, or the revealing of secrets, or a wound from deceitfulness, in all these cases, a friend will flee away.
Hold to faithfulness with a friend in his poverty, so that you may also rejoice in his prosperity.
In the time of his tribulation, remain faithful to him, so that you may also be an heir with him in his inheritance.
Just as the steam from an oven, or the smoke from a fire, rises up before a flame, so also do curses and insults and threats rise up before bloodshed.
I shall not be ashamed to greet a friend, nor shall I hide myself from his face. And if misfortunes befall me because of him, I will endure.
Anyone who hears of this will be wary around him.
Who will provide a keeper for my mouth, and a reliable seal over my lips, so that I may not fall because of them, and so that my tongue does not destroy me?