Simon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those equally precious with us, having obtained faith in the righteousness of our God and our Savior, Jesus Christ:
Grace to you, and peace be multiplied by a full knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord.
As His divine power has given to us all things pertaining to life and godliness through the full knowledge of the One calling us through glory and virtue,
by which means He has given to us the very great and precious promises, so that through these you might be partakers of the divine nature, escaping from the corruption in the world by lust.
But also in this very thing, bringing in all diligence, filling in your faith with virtue; and virtue with knowledge;
and knowledge with self-control; and self-control with patience; and patience with godliness;
and godliness with brotherly love; and brotherly love with love.
For these things being in you, and abounding, they will make you not idle, not unfruitful in the full knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
For the one in whom these things are not present is blind, being shortsighted, taking on forgetfulness of the cleansing of his sins in time past.
On account of this, brothers, rather be diligent to make sure of your calling and election; for doing these things, you will not ever fall into sin .
For so will be richly furnished to you the entrance into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
For this reason I will not neglect to cause you to remember always concerning these things, though you know and have been confirmed in the present truth.
But I deem it right, so long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by a reminder,
knowing that the putting off of my tabernacle is soon, as indeed our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me.
And I will also be diligent to cause you always to have memory of these things after my departure.
For not following fables which had been cleverly devised, but having become eyewitnesses of the majesty of Jesus Christ, we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord.
For receiving honor and glory from God the Father such a voice being borne to Him from the magnificent glory, "This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I was well pleased," Psa. 2:7; Gen. 22:2; Isa. 42:1; Matt. 17:5
even we heard this voice being borne out of Heaven, being with Him in the holy mountain,
and we have the more established prophetic word, in which you do well to take heed, as to a lamp shining in a murky place, until day dawns and the Day-star rises in your hearts;
knowing this first, that every prophecy of Scripture did not come into being of its own interpretation;
for prophecy was not at any time borne by the will of man, but having been borne along by the Holy Spirit, holy men of God spoke.