As the snowe in the sommer, and as the raine in the haruest are not meete, so is honour vnseemely for a foole.
As the sparowe by flying, and the swallow by flying escape, so the curse that is causeles, shall not come.
Vnto the horse belongeth a whip, to the asse a bridle, and a rod to the fooles backe.
Answer not a foole according to his foolishnes, least thou also be like him.
Answere a foole according to his foolishnes, least he be wise in his owne conceite.
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a foole, is as he that cutteth off the feete, and drinketh iniquitie.
As they that lift vp the legs of the lame, so is a parable in a fooles mouth.
As the closing vp of a precious stone in an heape of stones, so is he that giueth glory to a foole.
As a thorne standing vp in the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fooles.
The excellent that formed all things, both rewardeth the foole and rewardeth the transgressers.
As a dog turneth againe to his owne vomit, so a foole turneth to his foolishnes.
Seest thou a man wise in his owne conceite? more hope is of a foole then of him.
The slouthfull man sayth, A lyon is in the way: a lyon is in the streetes.
As the doore turneth vpon his hinges, so doeth the slouthfull man vpon his bed.
The slouthfull hideth his hand in his bosome, and it grieueth him to put it againe to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his owne conceite, then seuen men that can render a reason.
He that passeth by and medleth with the strife that belongeth not vnto him, is as one that taketh a dog by the eares.
As he that faineth himselfe mad, casteth fire brands, arrowes, and mortall things,
So dealeth the deceitfull man with his friend and sayth, Am not I in sport?
Without wood the fire is quenched, and without a talebearer strife ceaseth.
As ye cole maketh burning coles, and wood a fire, so the contentious man is apt to kindle strife.
The wordes of a tale bearer are as flatterings, and they goe downe into the bowels of the belly.
As siluer drosse ouerlayde vpon a potsheard, so are burning lips, and an euill heart.
He that hateth, will counterfaite with his lips, but in his heart he layeth vp deceite.
Though he speake fauourably, beleeue him not: for there are seuen abominations in his heart.
Hatred may be couered by deceite: but the malice thereof shall be discouered in the congregation.
He that diggeth a pit shall fall therein, and he that rolleth a stone, it shall returne vnto him.
A false tongue hateth the afflicted, and a flattering mouth causeth ruine.