And God remembered Noah and every living thing, and all the cattle which were with him in the ark. And God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subsided.
And the fountains of the deep and the windows of the heavens were stopped, and the rain from the heavens was restrained.
And the waters retreated from the earth, going and retreating. And the waters diminished at the end of a hundred and fifty days.
And in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark rested on the mountains of Ararat.
And the waters were going and falling until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen.
And it happened, at the end of forty days, even Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made.
And he sent out a raven, and it went out, going out and returning until the waters were dried up from off the earth.
He also sent out from him the dove, to see if the waters had gone down from off the face of the earth.
But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned to him into the ark, for the waters were on the face of all the earth. And he put out his hand and took her, and pulled her in to him into the ark.
And he waited yet another seven days, and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark.
And the dove came into him in the evening. And, behold! In her mouth was a newly plucked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the waters had gone down from off the earth.
And he waited another seven days and sent forth the dove. And she did not return again to him any more.
And it happened in the six hundred and first year, at the beginning, on the first of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth. And Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked. And, behold! The face of the earth was dried.
And in the second month, on the twenty seventh day of the month, the earth was dry.
And God spoke to Noah, saying,
Go out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons and your sons' wives with you.
Bring out from you every living thing that is with you, of all flesh, of fowl, of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creeps on the earth; and let them swarm on the earth, and bear, and multiply on the earth.
And Noah went out, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons wives with him;
every animal, every creeping thing, and every fowl; all which creeps on the earth. They went forth out of the ark according to their families.
And Noah built an altar to Jehovah, and took of every clean animal, and of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.
And Jehovah smelled the soothing fragrance, and Jehovah said in His heart, I will never again curse the ground for the sake of man, because the imagination of the heart of man is evil from his youth. Yea, I will not again smite every living thing as I have done;
While the earth remains, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.