Two days after this there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and Jesus’ mother was there.
Jesus himself, too, with his disciples, was invited to the wedding.
And, when the wine ran short, his mother said to him: “They have no wine left.”
“What do you want with me?”answered Jesus. “My time has not come yet.”
His mother said to the servants: “Do whatever he tells you.”
There were standing there six stone water-jars, in accordance with the Jewish rule of ‘purification,’ each holding twenty or thirty gallons.
Jesus said to the servants: “Fill the water-jars with water.”
And, when they had filled them to the brim, he added: “Now take some out, and carry it to the Master of the feast.”The servants did so.
And, when the Master of the feast had tasted the water which had now become wine, not knowing where it had come from — although the servants who had taken out the water knew —
He called the groom and said to him: “Everyone puts good wine on the table first, and inferior wine afterwards, when his guests have drunk freely; but you have kept back the good wine till now!”
This, the first sign of his mission, Jesus gave at Cana in Galilee, and by it revealed his glory; and his disciples believed in him.
After this, Jesus went down to Capernaum — he, his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; but they stayed there only a few days.
Then, as the Jewish Passover was near, Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
In the Temple Courts he found people who were selling bullocks, sheep, and pigeons, and the money changers at their counters.
So he made a whip of cords, and drove them all out of the Temple Courts, and the sheep and bullocks as well; he scattered the money of the money changers, and overturned their tables,
and said to the pigeon-dealers: “Take these things away. Do not turn my Father’s house into a market house.”
His disciples remembered that scripture said — ‘Passion for your house will consume me.’
Then some of the religious authorities asked Jesus: “What sign are you going to show us, since you act in this way?”
“Destroy this temple,”was his answer, “and I will raise it in three days.”
“This Temple,” the authorities replied, “has been forty-six years in building, and are you going to ‘raise it in three days’?”
But Jesus was speaking of his body as a temple.
Afterwards, when he had risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this; and they believed the passage of scripture, and the words which Jesus had spoken.
While Jesus was in Jerusalem, during the Passover Festival, many came to trust in him, when they saw the signs of his mission that he was giving.
But Jesus did not put himself in their power because he knew what was in their hearts.
He did not need anyone to tell him about people because he could read what was in them..