Be careful not to do your charity before men in order to be seen by them, otherwise ye have no reward from your Father in the heavens.
When therefore thou do charity, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may have glory by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward.
But when thou do charity, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand does,
so that thy charity may be in secret. And thy Father who sees in secret will himself reward thee in the open.
And when thou pray, thou shall not be as the hypocrites, because they love to pray having stood in the synagogues and in the corners of the thoroughfares, so that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward.
But thou, when thou pray, enter into thy private room, and having shut thy door, pray to thy Father in secret, and thy Father who sees in secret will reward thee in the open.
And while praying do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they will be heard by their much speaking.
Be not therefore like them, for your Father knows what things ye have need of before ye ask him.
Pray ye therefore this way: Our Father in the heavens, hallowed be thy name.
May thy kingdom come. May thy will happen on the earth as also in heaven.
Give us this day the bread sufficient for us.
And forgive us our debts as we also forgive our debtors.
And bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, because from thee is the kingdom and the power and the glory into the ages. Truly.
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
And when ye fast, become not like the gloomy looking hypocrites, for they make their faces unsightly, so that they may appear fasting to men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward.
But when thou fast, anoint thy head, and wash thy face,
so that thou may not appear fasting to men, but to thy Father in secret. And thy Father, who sees in secret, will reward thee.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust deteriorates, and where thieves break through and steal,
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust deteriorates, and where thieves do not break through nor steal.
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye is sound, thy whole body will be bright.
But if thine eye is bad, thy whole body will be dark. If therefore the light that is in thee is darkness, how great is the darkness!
No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one, and love the other, or he will hold to one, and disparage the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
Because of this I say to you, be not anxious about your life, what ye may eat, or what ye may drink, nor yet for your body, what ye may wear. Is not the life more than the food, and the body than the clothing?
Look to the birds of the sky, because they sow not, nor do they reap, nor gather into barns, and your heavenly Father feeds them. Are ye not more valuable then they?
And which man of you by being anxious can add one cubit to his life span?
And why are ye anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, nor do they spin,
yet I say to you, that not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed like one of these.
And if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into an oven, will he not much more you, O ye of little faith?
Be not therefore anxious, saying, What may we eat? or, What may we drink? or, What may we wear?
For the Gentiles seek after all these things, for your heavenly Father knows that ye need all these things.
But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.
Be not therefore anxious for the morrow, for the morrow will be anxious about things of itself. Sufficient for the day is the evil of it.