A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches; rather than silver or gold, favor is better.
The rich and poor meet together, Jehovah is the Maker of all of them.
A sensible one sees the evil and hides himself, but the simple go on and are punished.
The reward of humility is the fear of Jehovah, riches, and honor, and life.
Thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse, he who keeps his soul shall be far from them.
Train up a boy on the opening of his way, even when he is old, he will not turn aside from it.
The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is servant to a man who lends.
He who sows injustice will reap evil, and the rod of his wrath shall fail.
He who has a good eye, he is blessed, for he gives of his bread to the poor.
Throw the scorner out and strife shall go out; yea, quarrels and shame shall cease.
He who loves pureness of heart, grace is on his lips; the king shall be his friend.
The eyes of Jehovah keep knowledge, and He overthrows the words of the treacherous.
The lazy one says, A lion is outside! I will be killed in the streets!
The mouth of alien women is a deep pit; those despised by Jehovah shall fall there.
Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a boy, the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.
One oppresses the poor to multiply for himself, another gives to the rich, only to come to poverty.
Stretch your ear and hear the words of the wise, and set your heart to My knowledge,
for they are pleasant when you keep them within you; they shall all be fixed together on your lips,
So that your trust may be in Jehovah. I caused you to know today, even you.
Have I not written to you the third time with counsels and knowledge,
to cause you to know the verity of the words of truth, to return words of truth to those who send you?
Rob not the poor because he is poor, and oppress not the afflicted in the gate.
For Jehovah will contend for their cause, and will plunder the soul of their plunderers.
Do not feed a possessor of anger, and do not go in with a man of fury,
lest you learn his ways and take a snare for your soul.
Do not be one of those who strike the palm, those who are sureties for loans.
If you have nothing to repay, why should he take away your bed from under you?
Do not move the old landmark which your fathers have set.
Do you see a man who is prompt in his work? He shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before obscure men .