And the Pharisees, and some of the scholars, having come from Jerusalem, gathered in to him.
And having seen some of his disciples eating their loaves with profane hands, that is, unwashed, they accused them.
(For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, unless they wash their hands carefully, do not eat, holding the tradition of the elders.
And coming from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they bathe. And there are many other things that they have taken in to retain: washings of cups, and pots, and brazen vessels, and beds.)
Then the Pharisees and the scholars demand of him, Why do thy disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with unwashed hands?
And having answered, he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy about you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far distant from me.
But in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.
For having set aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men: washings of pots and cups and many other such like things ye do.
And he said to them, Well do ye reject the commandment of God, so that ye may keep your tradition.
For Moses said, Honor thy father and thy mother, and, He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him perish in death.
But ye say, If a man should say to his father or mother, Whatever ye might be benefited from me is Corban, that is, an offering,
then ye no longer allow him to do anything for his father or his mother,
annulling the word of God by your tradition that ye have delivered. And many such like things ye do.
And having summoned all the people, he said to them, Hear me all of you, and understand.
There is nothing outside the man, entering into him that can defile him, but the things coming out of him those are the things that defile the man.
If any man has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when he entered into a house from the crowd, his disciples questioned him about the parable.
And he says to them, Are also ye so without understanding? Do ye not perceive that everything outside that enters into the man cannot defile him,
because it does not enter into his heart, but into the belly, and goes out into the toilet (making all foods clean)?
And he said, That which comes out of the man, that defiles the man.
For from inside the heart of men proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts,
covetings, wickednesses, deceit, licentiousness, an evil eye, reviling, pride, foolishness.
All these evil things come from inside, and defile the man.
And having risen from there, he went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And having entered into a house, he wanted no man to know it, and yet he could not be hid.
For a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, after hearing about him, having come, she fell down at his feet.
Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. And she besought him that he would cast out the demon from her daughter.
And Jesus said to her, Allow the children first be filled, for it is not right to take the children's bread and cast it to the house dogs.
But she answered and says to him, Yes, Lord, for even the house dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs.
And he said to her, Because of this saying, go thou. The demon has gone out of thy daughter.
And having departed to her house, she found the demon having gone out, and her daughter laid upon the bed.
And again having departed from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, he came to the sea of Galilee in the midst of the regions of Decapolis.
And they bring a deaf, tongue-tied man to him, and they beseech him to lay his hand upon him.
And having taken him from the multitude in private, he put his fingers into his ears, and having spat, he touched his tongue.
And having looked up to heaven, he sighed, and says to him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened.
And straightaway his ears were opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosened, and he spoke plainly.
And he commanded them that they should tell no man, but as much as he commanded them, so much the more abundantly they proclaimed it.
And they were exceedingly astonished, saying, He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf to hear, and the mute to speak.