Rejoice, unfruitful one who never bore; break out a song and shout, you who never travailed. For the sons of the desolate one are more than the sons of the married woman, says Jehovah.
Make the place of your tent larger, and let them stretch out the curtains of your dwellings. Do not spare, lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes.
For you shall break forth on the right hand and on the left. And your seed shall possess nations, and people will inhabit ruined cities.
Do not fear, for you shall not be shamed, nor shall you be abashed, for you shall not be wounded. For you shall forget the shame of your youth, and you shall not remember the reproach of your widowhood any more.
For your Maker is your husband; Jehovah of Hosts is His name; and your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel; He is called the God of all the earth.
For Jehovah has called you as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, even a wife of young men when she is rejected, says your God.
For a little moment I have left you, but I will gather you with great pityings.
In a flood of wrath I hid My face from you for a moment; but I will have pity on you with everlasting kindness, says Jehovah your Redeemer.
For this is the waters of Noah to Me; for as I swore to refrain from passing over the waters of Noah over the earth again, so I have sworn from being and with you and rebuking you.
For the mountains shall depart and the hills be removed, but My mercy shall not depart from you; nor shall the covenant of My peace be removed, says Jehovah who has pity on you.
Afflicted one, storm tossed and not comforted! Behold, I stretch out your stones among antimony, and lay your foundations with sapphires.
And I will make your battlements of ruby, and your gates carbuncle stones, and all your borders pleasing stones;
and all your sons will be taught of Jehovah; and the peace of your sons will be great.
You shall be established in righteousness; you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not fear; and from terror, for it shall not come near you.
Behold, they shall surely gather, but not from Me. Who has gathered against you? By you he shall fall.
Behold, I have created the smith who blows the coal in the fire, and who brings out a weapon for his work; and I have created the waster to destroy.
Every weapon formed against you shall not prosper, and every tongue that shall rise against you in judgment, you shall condemn. This is the inheritance of the servants of Jehovah, and their righteousness is from Me, says Jehovah.