And having entered, he was passing through Jericho.
And behold, a man called by name, Zacchaeus. And he was a chief tax collector, and this man was rich.
And he sought to see Jesus, who he was. And he was not able because of the crowd, because his stature was small.
And having ran ahead, he climbed up in a sycamore tree so that he might see him, because he was going to pass that one.
And when Jesus came to the place, having looked up, he saw him, and said to him, Zacchaeus, after making haste, come down, for today I must lodge at thy house.
And having made haste, he came down and received him, rejoicing.
And all who saw murmured, saying, He went in to relax with a sinful man.
And having stood, Zacchaeus said to the Lord, Behold, half of the things possessed by me, Lord, I give to the poor. And if I defrauded any man of anything, I repay fourfold.
And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham.
For the Son of man came to seek and to save that which was lost.
And as they heard these things, he spoke, adding on a parable because he was near Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately.
He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
And having called ten of his bondmen, he gave them ten minas and said to them, Do business until I come.
But his citizens hated him, and sent an embassy behind him, saying, We do not want this man to reign over us.
And it came to pass for him to return, having taken the kingdom. And he said for these bondmen to be called to him, to whom he gave the silver, so that he might know what any man gained by trading.
And the first came, saying, Lord, thy mina gained ten minas.
And he said to him, Well, thou good bondman. Because thou became faithful in the least, be thou having authority over ten cities.
And the second came, saying, Lord, thy mina gained five minas.
And he also said to him, And thou become over five cities.
And another came, saying, Lord, behold thy mina, which I had put away in a napkin.
For I was afraid of thee because thou are an austere man. Thou take up what thou did not lay down, and reap what thou did not sow.
He says to him, Out of thy mouth I will judge thee, thou evil bondman. Thou had known that I am an austere man taking up what I did not lay down, and reaping what I did not sow.
Then why did thou not give my silver into a bank, and having come I would have collected it with interest?
And he said to those who stood by, Take the mina from him, and give it to him who has the ten minas.
And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas.
For I say to you, that to every man who has, will be given, but from him who has not, even what he has will be taken away from him.
Nevertheless those enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them, bring here, and kill them before me.
And having spoke these things, he went ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass when he came near to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount that is called Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying,
Go ye into the opposite village, in which, having entered, ye will find a colt tied, on which no man ever sat. Having untied, bring it.
And if any man asks you, Why do ye untie it? Thus ye will say to him, The Lord has need of it.
And having departed, those who were sent found just as he said to them.
And as they were untying the colt, the masters of it said to them, Why do ye untie the colt?
And they said, The Lord has need of it.
And they brought it to Jesus. And having cast their garments upon the colt, they mounted Jesus.
And as he went, they spread their garments on the road.
And as he was now coming near, at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began rejoicing to praise God in a great voice about all the mighty works that they had seen, saying,
Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest!
And some of the Pharisees from the multitude said to him, Teacher, rebuke thy disciples.
And having answered, he said to them, I tell you that if these were silent, the stones would cry out.
And when he came near, having seen the city, he wept over it,
saying, If thou knew, even thou, indeed even in this thy day, the things for thy peace. But now they are hidden from thine eyes.
Because the days will come upon thee, and thine enemies will build a barricade around thee, and will surround thee, and enclose thee on every side.
And they will raze thee and thy children within thee. And they will not leave in thee a stone upon a stone, because thou knew not the time of thy visitation.
And having entered into the temple, he began to cast out those selling and buying in it,
saying to them, It is written, My house is a house of prayer, but ye made it a den of robbers.
And he was teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests, and the scholars sought to destroy him, even the foremost men of the people.
And they did not find what they might do, for the people all hung upon him, listening.