Now, Yahweh, visited Sarah, as he had said,—And Yahweh did for Sarah as he had spoken.
So, Sarah, conceived and bare, to Abraham, a son, for his old age, at the set time, of which God had spoken with him.
And Abraham called the name of his son that was born to him, whom, Sarah, bare to him, Isaac.
And Abraham circumcised Isaac his son, when eight days old,—as God commanded him.
Now Abraham was a hundred years old,—when Isaac his son was born to him.
And Sarah said, A laughing, hath God made for me,—Everyone that heareth will laugh with me.
And she said—Who would have announced to Abraham, Sarah hath suckled children? yet have I borne a son, for his old age!
And the child grew, and was weaned,—and Abraham made a great banquet, on the day of the weaning of Isaac.
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian woman whom she had borne to Abraham laughing!
So she said to Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son,—for the son of this bondwoman must not inherit with my son with Isaac.
And the word was very grievous in the eyes of Abraham,—on account of his son.
And God said unto Abraham Let it not be grievous in thine eyes concerning the boy and concerning thy bondwoman, In all that Sarah may say unto thee, hearken to her voice,—For in Isaac, shall there be called to thee—a seed.
Yet even the son of the bondwoman, will I appoint to become, a nation, because thy seed, he is.
So Abraham rose up early in the morning—and took bread and a skin of water and gave unto hagar,—putting them on her shoulder and the child, and sent her forth,—so she went her way and wandered, in the desert of Beer-sheba.
And the water out of the skin was spent,—so she cast the child under one of the shrubs;
and went and sat her down over against him at a distance like as of such as draw the bow, for she said Let me not look upon the death of the child,—So she sat down over against him, and the boy lifted up his voice, and wept
And God heard the voice of the boy, and a messenger of God called unto Hagar out of the heavens; and said to her, What aileth thee, Hagar? Do not fear, for God hath hearkened unto the voice of the boy where he is.
Arise lift up the boy, and hold him up with thy hand,—for, a great nation, will I make him.
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water,—and went and filled the skin with water, and gave drink unto the boy
And it came to pass that God was with the boy, and he grew,—and dwelt in the desert, and he became as he grew up, an archer,
And he dwelt in the desert of Paran,—and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech, with Phicol chieftain of his host, spake unto Abraham, saying,—God, is with thee in all that, thou art doing.
Now, therefore, swear to me by God, here, that thou wilt not deal falsely by me, nor by mine offspring, nor by my descendants,—according to the lovingkindness wherewith I have dealt with thee, shalt thou deal with me, and with the land wherein thou hast sojourned.
And Abraham said, I, will swear.
But Abraham reproved Abimelech,—on account of the well of water, which the servants of Abimelech had seized.
And Abimelech said, I know not, who hath done this thing,—nor hast even thou, ever told me, nor have even I, ever heard, save to-day.
And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave to Abimelech,—and they two solemnised a covenant
So then Abraham set seven young sheep of the flock by them-selves,
And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What, then mean these seven young sheep here, which thou hast set by themselves?
And he said, The seven young sheep, shalt thou take at my hand,—that they may serve as my witness, that I digged this well.
On this account, was the name of that place called Beer-sheba [="oath well"],—because there, had they two sworn.
And when they had solemnised a covenant in Beer-sheba,—then arose Abimelech, with Phicol chief of his host, and returned unto the land of the Philistines.
Then planted he a tamarisk tree in Beer-sheba,—and called there on the name of Yahweh the age-abiding GOD.
So Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days.