And Joseph fell on the face of his father and wept on him, and kissed him.
And Joseph commanded the physicians, his servants, to embalm his father; and the physicians embalmed Israel.
And forty days were fulfilled, for so are fulfilled the days of those embalmed. And Egypt wept for him seventy days.
And the days of his weeping passed by, and Joseph spoke to the house of Pharaoh, saying, Now if I have found favor in your eyes, please speak in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I am dying; you shall bury me there in the grave which I have dug for myself in the land of Canaan. And now please let me go up and bury my father, and return.
And Pharaoh said, Go up and bury your father, as he made you swear.
And Joseph went up to bury his father; and all the servants of Pharaoh went up with him, the elders of his house, even all the elders of the land of Egypt,
and all the house of Joseph and his brothers, and the house of his father. Only, they left their little ones and their flocks and their herds in the land of Goshen.
And both horsemen and chariots went up with him; and the company was very great.
And they came as far as the threshing floor of thorns, which is on the other side of the Jordan. And they mourned there with a great and very heavy mourning. And he made a lamentation for his father seven days.
And the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the wailing in the grain floor of thorns. And they said, This is a very great wailing to Egypt; for this reason its name was called The Meadow of Egypt, which is on the other side of Jordan.
And his sons did to him as he had commanded them.
And his sons carried him to the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah; the field which Abraham bought for a burying place from Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.
And after he buried his father, Joseph returned to Egypt, he and his brothers, and all those going up with him to bury his father.
And Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead. And they said, What if Joseph should bear a grudge against us and should surely repay us all the evil which we did to him?
And they sent a message to Joseph, saying,
Your father commanded before his death, saying, So you shall say to Joseph, Please lift up now the rebellion of your brothers, and their sin; for they did evil to you. And now please lift up the rebellion of the servants of the God of your father. And Joseph wept when they spoke to him.
his brothers also went and fell down before his face. And they said, Behold, we are your servants.
And Joseph said to them, Do not fear. For am I in the place of God?
And you, you intended evil against me, but God meant it for good, in order to make it as it is this day, to keep a great many people alive.
And now do not fear; I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spoke to their hearts.
And Joseph lived in Egypt, he and the house of his father. And Joseph lived a hundred and ten years.
And Joseph saw the sons of Ephraim to the third generation. Also the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh were born on Joseph knees
And Joseph said to his brothers, I am dying, and God will surely visit you and bring you up from this land to the land which He swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
And Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying, God will surely visit you, and you will bring up my bones from here.
And Joseph died, a son of a hundred and ten years. And they embalmed him, and put him in a coffin in Egypt.