The Lineage Roll of Jesus Christ,—Son of David, Son of Abraham.
Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob, begat Judah and his brethren;
And Judah begat Perez and Zarah of Tamah, and Perez begat Hezron, and Hezron begat Ram;
And Ram begat Amminadab, and Amminadab begat Nashon, and Nashon begat Salmon;
And Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab, and Boaz begat Obed of Ruth, and Obed begat Jesse;
And Jesse begat David the King. And David begat Solomon of her [that had been the wife] of Uriah;
And Solomon begat Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begat Abijah, and Abijah begat Asa;
And Asa begat Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begat Joram, and Joram begat Uzziah;
And Uzziah begat Jotham, and Jotham begat Ahaz, and Ahaz begat Hezekiah:
And Hezekiah begat Manasseh, and Manasseh begat Amon, and Amon begat Josiah;
And Josiah begat Jechoniah, and his brethren,—upon the removal to Babylon.
And, after the removal to Babylon, Jechoniah begat Shealtiel, and Shealtiel begat Zerubbabel;
And Zerubbabel begat Abiud, and Abiud begat Eliakim, and Eliakim begat Azor;
And Azor begat Sadoc, and Sadoc begat Achim, and Achim begat Eliud;
And Eliud begat Eleazar, and Eleazar begat Matthan, and Matthan begat Jacob;—
And Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus,—who is called Christ.
So then, all the generations from Abraham unto David, are, fourteen, generations, and, from David unto the removal to Babylon, fourteen, generations; and, from the removal to Babylon unto the Christ, fourteen, generations.
Now the birth, of [Jesus] Christ, was, thus: His mother Mary having been betrothed to Joseph,—before they came together, she was found with child by [the] Holy Spirit.
Moreover, Joseph her husband, being, righteous, and yet unwilling to expose her,—intended, privately, to divorce her.
But, when, these things, he had pondered, lo! a messenger of the Lord, by dream, appeared to him, saying,—Joseph, son of David! do not fear to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for, that which, in her, hath been begotten, is of [the], Holy, Spirit.
Moreover she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus,—for, he, will save his people from their sins.
But, all this, hath come to pass, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord, through the prophet, saying:
Lo! a Virgin, shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son,—and they shall call his name Emmanuel; which is, being translated, God with us.
And Joseph, awaking, from his sleep, did as the messenger of the Lord directed him,—and took unto him his wife;
and knew her not, until she had brought forth a son,—and he called his name Jesus.