And it came to pass, when Jabin king of Hazor heard, that he sent unto Jobab king of Madon, and unto the king of Shimron, and unto the king of Achshaph;
and unto the kings who were on the north in the hill country and in the waste plain south of Chinneroth, and in the lowland,—and in the heights of Dor, on the west:
the Canaanite on the east and on the west, and the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite and the Jebusite, in the hill country,—and the Hivite, under Hermon, in the land of Mizpah;
and they came out—they, and all their hosts with them, much people, like the sand that is upon the seashore for multitude,—with horses and chariots very many.
And, when all these kings were gathered together, they came in, and encamped as one man, at the waters of Merom, to fight with Israel.
Then said Yahweh unto Joshua—Do not fear because of them, for, to-morrow, about this time, am I going to deliver up all of them, slain, before Israel,—their horses, shalt thou ham-string, and, their chariots, shalt thou burn up with fire.
So Joshua, and all the army with him, came in upon them, by the waters of Merom, suddenly, and fell upon them.
And Yahweh delivered them up into the hand of Israel, and they smote them, and chased them as far as great Zidon, and as far as Misrephoth-maim, and as far as the valley of Mizpeh, eastward,—yea they smote them until they left them not a survivor.
And Joshua did unto them, as Yahweh had said unto him,—their horses, he ham-strung, and, their chariots, burned he up with fire.
Then Joshua turned back, at that time, and captured Hazor, and, the king thereof, smote he with the sword,—for, Hazor, aforetime, was the head of all these kingdoms.
And they smote all the souls that were therein, with the edge of the sword, devoting them to destruction, there was left no breathing thing,—and, Hazor, burned he up with fire.
And, all the cities of these kings, and all the kings thereof, did Joshua capture, and he smote them with the edge of the sword, devoting them to destruction,—as Moses, the servant of Yahweh, commanded.
Yet, none of the cities that were still standing upon their mound, did Israel burn, none but Hazor alone, did Joshua burn.
But, all the spoil of these cities, and the cattle, did the sons of Israel take as their prey,—nevertheless, all the human beings, smote they with the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them, they left remaining no breathing thing.
As Yahweh commanded Moses his servant, so, Moses commanded Joshua, and, so, Joshua, did, he set aside nothing of all that Yahweh commanded Moses.
So Joshua took all this land—the hill country, and all the south, and all the land of Goshen, and the lowland, and the waste plain,—and the hill country of Israel, and the lowland thereof:
from Mount Halak, that goeth up to Seir, even as far as Baal-gad, in the valley of the Lebanon, under Mount Hermon,—and, all their kings, he captured, and smote them, and put them to death.
Many days, did Joshua, with all these kings, make war.
There was not a city that made peace with the sons of Israel, save the Hivites dwelling in Gibeon,—the whole, took they in battle.
For, from Yahweh, came it to pass, that their heart was emboldened to come out to war with Israel, that he might devote them to destruction, that they might find no favour,—but that he might destroy them,—as Yahweh commanded Moses.
And Joshua came in, at that time, and cut off the Anakim from the hill country—from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel,—with their cities, did Joshua devote them to destruction.
There was left remaining none of the Anakim, in the land of the sons of Israel,—save only, in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, did some remain.
So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that Yahweh had spoken unto Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance unto Israel, according to their portions by their tribes,—and, the land, had rest from war.