And it happened after the death of Joshua, the sons of Israel inquired of Jehovah, saying, Who shall first go up for us against the Canaanites, to fight against them?
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up. Behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And Judah said to his brother Simeon, Go up with me into my lot, and we shall fight against the Canaanites. And I also will go with you into your lot. And Simeon went with him.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand. And they struck them in Bezek, ten thousand men.
And they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek, and fought against him, and struck the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
And Adonibezek fled, and they pursued him and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and his big toes.
And Adoni-bezek said, Seventy kings with their thumbs and their big toes cut off used to be gathering scraps under my table. As I have done, so God has repaid me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And the sons of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and captured it, and struck it with the mouth of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And afterward the sons of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who inhabited the mountains, and the Negeb, and the lowlands.
And Judah went against the Canaanites who lived in Hebron (and the name of Hebron was formerly City of Arba) and they struck Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And from there he went against the inhabitants of Debir, and the name of Debir formerly was City of Sepher.
And Caleb said, He who strikes the City of Sepher and captures it, I shall give my daughter Achsah to him for a wife.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, the younger one, captured it. And he gave his daughter Achsah to him for a wife.
And it happened as she came, she persuaded him to ask a field from her father. And she dismounted from the ass. And Caleb said to her, What do you desire ?
And she said to him, Give a blessing to me. Since you have given me the land of the Negeb, also you shall give springs of water to me. And Caleb gave the upper springs and the lower springs to her.
And the sons of the Kenite, the father-in-law of Moses, had gone up out of the city of palms with the sons of Judah to the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad. And they went and lived with the people.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they struck the Canaanites inhabiting Zephath and destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Judah captured Gaza and its border, and Askelon and its border, and Ekron and its border.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he occupied the hills, but did not expel the inhabitants of the valley, for they had chariots of iron.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said. And He expelled the three sons of Anak from there.
And the sons of Benjamin did not expel the Jebusites living in Jerusalem. And the Jebusites live with the sons of Benjamin in Jerusalem until this day.
And the house of Joseph went up; they also against Bethel. And Jehovah was with them.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy around Bethel, and the name of the city formerly was Luz.
And the guards saw a man coming out from the city, and said to him, Please show us the entrance of the city, and we will deal with you with mercy.
And he showed them the entrance of the city. And they struck the city with the mouth of the sword; and they sent away the man and all his family.
And the man went to the land of the Hittites and built a city, and called its name Luz; it is its name to this day.
And Manasseh had not occupied Beth-shean and its daughter-villages; or Taanach and its daughter-villages nor struck the inhabitants of Dor and its daughter-villages; or the inhabitants of Ibleam and its daughter-villages; or the inhabitants of Megiddo and its daughter-villages. For the Canaanites desired to live in that land.
But it happened when Israel became strong, it happened that they put the Canaanites to tribute, but did not completely expel it.
And Ephraim did not expel the Canaanites who lived in Gezer, and the Canaanites lived among them in Gezer.
Zebulun did not expel the inhabitants of Kitron, and the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites lived among them, and they became burden-bearers.
And Asher did not expel the inhabitants of Accho, and the inhabitants of Sidon, and Ahlab, and Achzib, and Helbah, and Aphik, and Rehob.
And the Asherites lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not expel them.
Naphtali did not expel the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the inhabitants of Beth-anath, and they lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land. But the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath became burden bearers to them.
And the Amorites pressed the sons of Dan into the hills, for they would not allow them to come down to the valley.
But the Amorites were determined to live in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim. Yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became burden-bearers.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.