And it happened, when Jabin the king of Hazor heard, he sent to Jobab the king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph,
and to the kings that were on the north of the heights, and in the plains south of Chinneroth, and in the low country, and in the hills of Dor on the west;
to the Canaanite on the east, and on the west, and the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the heights, and the Hivite below Hermon, in the land of Mizpeh.
And they went out, they and all their camps with them, a people plentiful as the sand on the seashore in number, and very many horses and chariots.
And all these kings met together. And they came and camped together at the waters of Merom, to fight with Israel.
And Jehovah said to Joshua, Do not fear before them, for about this time tomorrow I will give all of them up wounded before Israel. You shall hamstring their horses, and burn their chariots with fire.
And Joshua came, and all the people of war with him, against them by the waters of Merom. And they suddenly fell on them.
And Jehovah gave them into Israel's hand, and they struck them, and pursued them to the great Sidon, and to the burning waters, and to the valley of Mizpeh eastward. And they struck them until he did not have a survivor left to them.
And Joshua did to them as Jehovah said to him. He hamstrung their horses, and burned their chariots with fire.
And Joshua returned and captured Hazor at that time. And he struck its king by the sword; for Hazor was formerly head of all these kingdoms.
And they struck every person in it by the mouth of the sword. He destroyed them , he did not leave anyone breathing; and he burned Hazor with fire.
And Joshua captured all the cities of these kings, and all their kings. And he struck them by the mouth of the sword. He destroyed them, as Moses the servant of Jehovah had commanded.
But as for all the cities which stood by their mounds, Israel did not burn them; but Joshua only burned Hazor.
And the sons of Israel seized for themselves all the plunder of these cities, and the livestock. But they struck every human being by the mouth of the sword, until they had destroyed them; they did not leave anyone breathing.
As Jehovah commanded His servant Moses, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so Joshua did. He did not turn aside from anything of all that Jehovah commanded Moses.
And Joshua took all this land: the heights, and all the Negeb, and all the land of Goshen, and the Lowlands, and the Arabah and the mountains of Israel, and its lowlands,
from Mount Halak, that goes up to Seir, even to Baal-gad in the Valley of Lebanon, below Mount Hermon. And he took all their kings, and struck them, and killed them.
And Joshua made war many days with all those kings.
There was not a city that made peace with the sons of Israel except the Hivites, inhabitants of Gibeon. They took all in battle.
For it was of Jehovah to harden their hearts, so that they should come against Israel in battle, so that they might be destroyed, so that they might have no favor, but that He might destroy them, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
At that time Joshua came and cut off the Anakim from the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anah, and from all the mountains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel. Joshua completely destroyed them with their cities.
There were none of the Anakim left in the land of the sons of Israel; only some remained in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod.
And Joshua took the whole of the land, according to all that Jehovah had spoken to Moses. And Joshua gave it for Israel according to their divisions, by their tribes. And the land had rest from war.