When Jesus had spoken these things, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where there was a garden, into which he entered, and his disciples.
And Judas also, who betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus gathered there often with his disciples.
Judas then, taking a company of soldiers and ministers of the high priests and of the Pharisees, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
Jesus therefore, knowing all the things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye?
They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said unto them, I AM. And Judas also, who betrayed him, stood with them.
And when he said unto them, I AM, they went backward and fell to the ground.
Then he asked them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus answered, I have told you that I AM; if, therefore, ye seek me, let these go away,
that the word might be fulfilled, which he spoke, Of those whom thou gavest me I have lost none.
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and smote the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus.
Then Jesus said unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath; the cup which my Father has given me, shall I not drink it?
Then the company of soldiers and the tribune and the ministers of the Jews took Jesus and bound him
and led him away to Annas first, for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was the high priest of that year [and he sent him bound unto Caiaphas, the high priest].
Now Caiaphas was he who had given the counsel to the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and [so did] another disciple; that disciple was known unto the high priest and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest.
But Peter stood at the door without. Then that other disciple, who was known unto the high priest, went out and spoke unto her that kept the door and brought in Peter.
Then the damsel that kept the door said unto Peter, Art not thou also [one] of this man's disciples? He said, I am not.
And the servants and ministers stood there, who had made a fire of coals, for it was cold, and they warmed themselves; and Peter stood with them and warmed himself.
The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples and of his doctrine.
Jesus answered him, I spoke openly to the world; I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews gather; and I have said nothing in secret.
Why dost thou ask me? Ask those who heard me what I have said unto them; behold, they know what I said.
And when he had thus spoken, one of the servants who stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high priest so?
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil, but if well, why dost thou smite me?
Thus Annas sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest.
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also [one] of his disciples? He denied [it] and said, I am not.
One of the servants of the high priest, kinsman of the one whose ear Peter had cut off, said, Did I not see thee in the garden with him?
Peter then denied again, and immediately the cock crew.
Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgement, and it was early; and they themselves did not go into the judgement hall, lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the passover.
Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusation bring ye against this man?
They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee.
Then Pilate said unto them, Take him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death;
that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying what death he should die.
Then Pilate entered into the judgement hall again and called Jesus and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it [unto] thee of me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me; what hast thou done?
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world; if my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews; now, therefore, my kingdom is not from here.
Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I AM king. To this end I was born, and for this cause I came into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth hears my voice.
Pilate said unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and said unto them, I find no fault [at all] in him.
But ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one at the passover; will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews?
Then they all cried again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.: