There is a reproof that is not comely;
And there is a man that keeps silence, and he is wise.

How good is it to reprove, rather than to be angry;
And he that makes confession shall be kept back from hurt.


As is the lust of an eunuch to deflower a virgin;
So is he that executes judgements with violence.

There is one that keeps silence, and is found wise;
And there is one that is hated for his much talk.

There is one that keeps silence, for he has no answer to make;
And there is that keeps silence, as knowing his time.

A wise man will be silent till his time come;
But the braggart and fool will overpass his time.

He that uses many words shall be abhorred;
And he that takes to himself authority therein shall be hated.

There is a prosperity that a man finds in misfortunes;
And there is a gain that turns to loss.

There is a gift that shall not profit you;
And there is a gift whose recompense is double.

There is an abasement because of glory;
And there is that has lifted up his head from a low estate.

There is that buys much for a little,
And pays for it again sevenfold.

He that is wise in words shall make himself beloved;
But the pleasantries of fools shall be wasted.

The gift of a fool shall not profit you;
For his eyes are many instead of one.

He will give little, and upbraid much;
And he will open his mouth like a crier:
Today he will lend, and tomorrow he will ask it again:
Such an one is a hateful man.

The fool will say, I have no friend,
And I have no thanks for my good deeds;
They that eat my bread are of evil tongue.

How often, and of how many, shall he be laughed to scorn!

A slip on a pavement is better than a slip  with the tongue;
So the fall of the wicked shall come speedily.

A man without grace is as  a tale out of season:
It will be continually in the mouth of the ignorant.

A  wise sentence from a fool’s mouth will be rejected;
For he will not speak it in its season.

There is that is hindered from sinning through lack;
And when he takes rest, he shall not be troubled.

There is that destroys his soul through bashfulness;
And by a foolish countenance he will destroy it.

There is that for bashfulness promises to his friend;
And he makes him his enemy for nothing.

A lie is a foul blot in a man:
It will be continually in the mouth of the ignorant.

A thief is better than a man that is continually lying:
But they both shall inherit destruction.

The disposition of a liar is dishonor;
And his shame is with him continually.

He that is wise in words shall advance himself;
And one that is prudent will please great men.

He that tils his land shall raise his heap high;
And he that pleases great men shall get pardon for iniquity.

Presents and gifts blind the eyes of the wise,
And as a muzzle on the mouth, turn away reproofs.

Wisdom that is hid, and treasure that is out of sight,
What profit is in them both?

Better is a man that hides his folly
Than a man that hides his wisdom.

