And in those dayes, Iohn the Baptist came and preached in the wildernes of Iudea,
And said, Repent: for the kingdome of heauen is at hand.
For this is he of whome it is spoken by the Prophet Esaias, saying, The voyce of him that crieth in the wildernes, Prepare ye the way of the Lord: make his pathes straight.
And this Iohn had his garment of camels heare, and a girdle of a skinne about his loynes: his meate was also locusts and wilde hony.
Then went out to him Ierusalem and all Iudea, and all the region rounde about Iordan.
And they were baptized of him in Iordan, confessing their sinnes.
Now when he sawe many of the Pharises, and of the Sadduces come to his baptisme, he said vnto them, O generations of vipers, who hath forewarned you to flee from the anger to come?
Bring foorth therefore fruite worthy amendment of life.
And thinke not to say with your selues, We haue Abraham to our father: for I say vnto you, that God is able euen of these stones to raise vp children vnto Abraham.
And now also is the axe put to the roote of the trees: therfore euery tree which bringeth not forth good fruit, is hewen downe, and cast into ye fire.
In deede I baptize you with water to amendment of life, but he that commeth after me, is mightier then I, whose shoes I am not worthie to beare: hee will baptize you with the holy Ghost, and with fire.
Which hath his fanne in his hand, and wil make cleane his floore, and gather his wheate into his garner, but will burne vp the chaffe with vnquenchable fire.
Then came Iesus from Galile to Iordan vnto Iohn, to be baptized of him.
But Iohn earnestly put him backe, saying, I haue neede to be baptized of thee, and commest thou to me?
Then Iesus answering, saide to him, Let be nowe: for thus it becommeth vs to fulfill all righteousnes. So he suffered him.
And Iesus when hee was baptized, came straight out of the water. And lo, the heaues were opened vnto him, and Iohn saw the Spirit of God descending like a doue, and lighting vpon him.
And loe, a voyce came from heauen, saying, This is my beloued Sonne, in whome I am well pleased.