But I say, Over so long a time the heir is an infant, he being lord of all does not differ from a slave,
but is under guardians and housemasters until the term set before by the father.
So we also, when we were infants, we were under the elements of the world, being enslaved.
But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, having come into being out of a woman, having come under Law,
that He might redeem the ones under law, that we might receive the adoption of sons.
And because you are sons, God sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba! Father!
So that you no more are a slave, but a son, and if a son, also an heir of God through Christ.
But then, indeed, not knowing God, you served as slaves to the ones not by nature being gods.
But now, knowing God, but rather being known by God, how do you turn again to the weak and poor elements to which you desire again to slave anew?
You observe days and months and seasons and years.
I fear for you, lest somehow I have labored among you in vain.
Brothers, I beg of you, be as I am , because I am as you. You wronged me in nothing.
But you know that because of weakness of the flesh, I announced the gospel to you before;
and you did not despise my temptation in my flesh nor disdained it , but you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.
What then was your blessedness? For I testify to you that if you were able, plucking out your eyes, you would have given them to me.
So then did I become your enemy speaking truth to you?
They are zealous for you, but not well; but they only desire to shut you out, that you be zealous to them.
But it is good to be zealous always in a good thing and not only in my being present with you.
My children, for whom I again travail until Christ should be formed to you,
even now I desired to be present with you and to change my voice, for I am in doubt as to you.
Tell me, those desiring to be under Law, do you not hear the Law?
For it has been written, Abraham had two sons, one out of the slave woman and one out of the free woman.
But, indeed, he of the slave woman has been born according to flesh, and he out of the free woman through the promise,
which things are being allegorized, for these are two covenants, one, indeed, from Mount Sinai bringing forth to slavery (which is Hagar,
for Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present Jerusalem, and she slaves with her children),
but the Jerusalem from above is free, who is the mother of us all;
for it has been written, "Be glad, barren one not bearing; break forth and shout, the one not travailing; for more are the children of the desolate rather than she having the husband." Isa. 54:1
But, brothers, we are children of promise according to Isaac.
But then, even as he born according to flesh persecuted the one according to Spirit, so also now.
But what says the Scripture? "Cast out the slave woman and her son, for in no way shall the son of the slave woman inherit with the son of the free woman ." Gen. 21:10
Then, brothers, we are not children of a slave woman but of the free woman.