Moreover the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah the second time, while he was yet shut up in the court of the guard, saying,
Thus says Jehovah who does it, Jehovah who forms it to establish it; Jehovah is his name:
Call to me, and I will answer thee, and will show thee great things, and difficult, which thou know not.
For thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which are broken down to defend against the mounds and against the sword,
while men come to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have slain in my anger and in my wrath, and for all whose wickedness I have hid my face from this city:
Behold, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them. And I will reveal to them abundance of peace and truth.
And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will build them as at the first.
And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity by which they have sinned against me. And I will pardon all their iniquities by which they have sinned against me, and by which they have transgressed against me.
And this city shall be to me for a name of joy, for a praise and for a glory, before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the good that I do to them, and shall fear and tremble for all the good and for all the peace that I procure to it.
Thus says Jehovah: Yet again there shall be heard in this place-of which ye say, It is waste, without man and without beast, even in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, that are desolate, without man and without inhabitant and without beast-
the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of those who say, Give thanks to Jehovah of hosts, for Jehovah is good, for his loving kindness is forever, and of those who bring thanksgiving into the house of Jehovah. For I will cause the captivity of the land to return as at the first, says Jehovah.
Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Yet again there shall be in this place, which is waste, without man and without beast, and in all the cities thereof, a habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down.
In the cities of the hill-country, in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the South, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the places around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the flocks shall again pass under the hands of him who numbers them, says Jehovah.
Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will perform that good word which I have spoken concerning the house of Israel and concerning the house of Judah.
In those days, and at that time, I will cause a Branch of righteousness to grow up to David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
In those days Judah shall be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely. And this is the name whereby she shall be called: Jehovah our righteousness.
For thus says Jehovah: David shall never want a man to sit upon the throne of the house of Israel,
neither shall the priests the Levites want a man before me to offer burnt offerings, and to burn meal offerings, and to do sacrifice continually.
And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
Thus says Jehovah: If ye can break my covenant of the day, and my covenant of the night, so that there shall not be day and night in their season,
then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant, that he shall not have a son to reign upon his throne, and with the Levites the priests, my ministers.
As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of the sea measured, so I will multiply the seed of David my servant, and the Levites that minister to me.
And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
Consider thou not what this people have spoken, saying, The two families which Jehovah chose, he has cast them off? Thus they despise my people, that they should be no more a nation before them.
Thus says Jehovah: If my covenant of day and night stand not, if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth,
then I will also cast away the seed of Jacob, and of David my servant, so that I will not take of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For I will cause their captivity to return, and will have mercy on them.