And, after six days, Jesus taketh with him, Peter and James and John his brother, and bringeth them up into a high mountain, apart;
and was transformed before them,—and his face shone as the sun, and, his garments, became white as the light.
And lo! there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, conversing with him.
And Peter, answering, said unto Jesus—Lord! it is, delightful, for us, to be here,—If thou wilt, I will make here three tents, for thee, one, and, for Moses, one, and, for Elijah, one.
While yet he was speaking, lo! a brightly shining cloud, overshadowed them, and lo! a voice, out of the cloud, saying—This, is, my Son, the Beloved, in whom I delight,—Be hearkening to him.
And, hearing it, the disciples fell upon their face, and were caused to fear exceedingly.
And Jesus came near, and, touching them, said—Arise! and be not afraid.
And, lifting up their eyes, no one, saw they, save Jesus, himself, alone.
And, as they were coming down out of the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying—Unto no one, may ye tell the vision, until the Son of Man, from among the dead shall arise.
And the disciples questioned him, saying—Why then do, the Scribes, say, that, Elijah, must needs come, first?
And, he, answering, said—Elijah, indeed, cometh, and will restored all things;
But, I say unto you—that, Elijah, just now, came,—and they recognised him not, but did with him, whatsoever they pleased: Thus, the Son of Man also, is destined to suffer by them.
Then, perceived the disciples, that, concerning John the Immerser, he spake to them.
And, when they came unto the multitude, there approached him a man, falling on his knees to him,
and saying—Lord! have mercy upon my son,—because he is lunatic, and in a grievous condition; For, many times, falleth he into the fire, and, many times, into the water.
And I brought him unto thy disciples, and they could not cure, him.
And Jesus, answering, said—O faithless and perverted generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me, here.
And Jesus rebuked it; and the demon came out of him,—and cured was the boy, from that hour.
Then, the disciples, coming near, to Jesus, privately, said—Wherefore could, we, not cast it out?
And, he, saith unto them—Because of your little faith. For, verily, I say unto you—If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say to this mountain, remove hence yonder; and it shall be removed, and, nothing, shall be impossible to you.

And, as they were being gathered together in Galilee, Jesus said unto them—The Son of Man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men;
And they will slay him, and, on the third day, will he, arise. And they were grieved exceedingly.
And, when they came into Capernaum, they who, the half shekel, were receiving, came near unto Peter, and said, Your teacher, doth he not pay the half shekel?
He saith—Yea. And, coming into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, How, to thee, doth it seem, Simon? The kings of the earth, of whom receive they dues or tax? from their sons, or from the aliens?
And, when he said, From the aliens, Jesus said unto him, Well then, free, are the sons!
But, that we may not cause them to stumble, go unto the sea, and cast in a hook, and, the first fish that cometh up, take, and, opening its mouth, thou shalt find a shekel,—that, take, and give to them for me and thee.