And it came to pass, at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon had built the house of Yahweh, and his own house,
that, the cities which Huram had given to Solomon, Solomon built them,—and caused, the sons of Israel, to dwell there.
And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah,—and prevailed against it;
and he built Tadmor, in the wilderness,—and all the store cities, which he built in Hamath;
and he built Beth-horon, the upper, and Beth-horon, the nether,—fortified cities, with walls, and doors and bars;
and Baalath, and all the store cities which pertained to Solomon, and all the chariot cities, and the cities of the horsemen,—and every delight of Solomon which he delighted to build in Jerusalem, and in the Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
As for all the people that were left, of the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites, who were not, of Israel;—
of their sons who were left after them in the land, whom the sons of Israel had not utterly destroyed, Solomon enrolled them as tributary—unto this day.
But, of the sons of Israel, were there none whom he delivered up as bondmen unto his work,—for, they, were men of war, and his captains and his heroes, and captains over his chariots, and his horsemen.
These, moreover, were the chiefs of his officers whom King Solomon had, two hundred and fifty,—who wielded dominion over the people.
And, the daughter of Pharaoh, Solomon brought up, out of the city of David, unto the house which he had built for her,—for he said, A wife of mine must not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, for holy are those places whereinto the ark of Yahweh hath come.
Then, Solomon offered up ascending-sacrifices, unto Yahweh,—upon the altar of Yahweh, which he had built before the porch:
even according to the duty of each a day upon [its own] day, offering up according to the commandment of Moses, for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the appointed feasts, three times in the year,—in the festival of unleavened cakes and in the festival of weeks, and in the festival of booths;
and he caused to stand, according to the regulation of David his father, the courses of the priests over their service and of the Levites over their charges, to offer praise and to minister before the priests, for the duty of each day upon its own day, and the gate-keepers in their courses, at every several gate,—for, such, was the commandment of David the man of God;
neither departed they from the commandment of the king, concerning the priests and the Levites as to any duty, or as to the treasuries.
So all the work of Solomon was prepared, from the day of founding the house of Yahweh, even as far as the finishing thereof,—complete was the house of Yahweh.
Then, went Solomon to Ezion-geber, and unto Eloth on the seashore in the land of Edom.
And Huram sent him—by the hand of his servants—ships, and servants skilled in the sea, and they came, with the servants of Solomon, towards Ophir, and took from thence, four hundred and fifty talents of gold,—and brought unto King Solomon.