And after two days it was the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take Him by craft and kill Him.
But they said, Not during the Feast, lest there be an uproar of the people.
And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as He reclined, a woman came with an alabaster vial of pure, costly ointment of spikenard. And she broke the vial and poured it on His head.
And some were indignant to themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made?
For it might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and be given to the poor. And they were incensed with her.
And Jesus said, Let her alone! Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work towards Me.
For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you desire you may do them good. But you do not have Me always.
She has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint My body for the burying.
Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel shall be proclaimed in all the world, this also that she has done will be spoken of for a memorial of her.
And Judas Iscariot, one of the Twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray Him to them.
And when they heard, they were glad and promised to give him silver. And he sought how he might conveniently betray Him.
And the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they killed the passover, His disciples said to Him, Where do You desire that we go and prepare that You may eat the passover?
And He sent out two of His disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and there you shall meet a man bearing a pitcher of water. Follow him.
And wherever he may go in, you say to the housemaster, The Teacher says, Where is the guest room where I shall eat the passover with My disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room, furnished and prepared. Prepare there for us.
And His disciples went out and came into the city and found it as He had said to them. And they made the passover ready.
And in the evening He came with the Twelve.
And as they reclined and ate, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, One of you will betray Me, the one eating with Me.
And they began to be grieved, and to say to Him one by one, Not at all I, is it? And another said, Not at all I, is it?
And answering He said to them, It is one of the Twelve, the one dipping with Me in the dish.
The Son of man indeed goes, as it has been written of Him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! It were good for that man if he had never been born.
And as they ate, Jesus took a loaf and blessed and broke it, and He gave to them and said, Take, eat; this is My body.
And taking the cup, giving thanks, He gave to them. And they all drank out of it.
And He said to them, This is My blood of the New Covenant, which is poured out for many.
Truly I say to you, I will no more drink of the fruit of the vine until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
And Jesus said to them, All of you will be offended because of Me this night. For it is written, "I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered."
But after I am raised, I will go before you into Galilee.
But Peter said to Him, Although all shall be offended, yet I will not.
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that today, in this night, before the cock crows twice, you shall deny Me three times.
But he spoke the more fervently, If I should die with You, I will not deny You in any way. Also they all said likewise.
And they came to a place named Gethsemane. And He said to His disciples, Sit here while I pray.
And He took with Him Peter and James and John. And He began to be greatly amazed, and to be very heavy.
And He said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful to death. Stay here and watch.
And He went forward a little and fell on the ground. And He prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from Him.
And He said, Abba, Father, all things are possible to You. Take away this cup from Me. Yet not what I will, but what You will.
And He came and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, Simon, do you sleep? Could you not watch one hour?
Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. Truly the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
And again He went away and prayed and spoke the same words.
And when He returned, He found them asleep again (for their eyes were heavy), neither did they know what to answer Him.
And He came the third time and said to them, Sleep on now and take your rest. It is enough, the hour has come. Behold, the Son of man has been betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Rise up, let us go. Lo, he who betrays Me is at hand.
And immediately, while He still spoke, Judas, being one of the Twelve, came, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
And he who betrayed Him had given them a sign, saying, Whomever I shall kiss, it is He. Take Him and lead Him away safely.
And coming, at once drawing near to Him, he said, Rabbi, Rabbi! And he ardently kissed Him.
And they laid their hands on Him and seized Him.
And one of those standing by, drawing a sword, struck a servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear.
And answering Jesus said to them, Have you come out with swords and clubs, as against a robber, to take Me?
I was with you daily in the temple teaching, and you did not seize Me. But the Scriptures must be fulfilled.
And leaving Him, all fled.
And one, a certain young man, followed Him, having thrown a linen cloth around his naked body. And the young men caught him.
And he left the linen cloth and fled from them naked.
And they led Jesus away to the high priest. And with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes.
And Peter followed Him from a distance to the inside of the court of the high priest. And he sat with the servants and warmed himself at the fire.
And the chief priests and all the sanhedrin sought for witness against Jesus, to put Him to death. And they found none.
For many testified falsely against Him, but the testimonies were not identical.
And certain ones rose up and bore false witness against Him, saying,
We heard Him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands.
But neither was their testimony identical.
And standing up in the middle, the high priest questioned Jesus, saying, Do you answer nothing? What do these witness against you?
But He was silent and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked Him, saying to Him, Are you the Christ, the son of the Blessed?
And Jesus said, I AM! And you will see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of the heaven.
Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further need do we have of witnesses?
You have heard the blasphemy; what do you think? And they all condemned Him to be guilty of death.
And some began to spit on Him, and to cover His face and to beat Him, and to say to Him, Prophesy! And the under-officers struck Him with slaps.
And as Peter was below in the palace, one of the servant women of the high priest came.
And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked on him and said, And you also were with Jesus the Nazarene.
But he denied, saying, I do not know nor even understand what you are saying. And he went out into the forecourt. And a cock crowed.
And a servant woman saw him again and began to say to those who stood by, This one is of them.
And he denied it again. And a little after, those who stood by said again to Peter, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean, and your speech agrees.
But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I do not know this man of whom you speak.
And the second time a cock crowed. And Peter remembered the word that Jesus said to him, Before a cock crows twice, you will deny Me three times. And thinking on it, he wept.