And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy. And say to those who prophesy out of their own heart, Hear the word of Jehovah:
So says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the foolish prophets who walk after their own spirit and have seen nothing!
O Israel, your prophets are like foxes in the deserts.
You have not gone up into the breaks, nor built a wall around the house of Israel, that it might stand in the battle, in the day of Jehovah.
They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, Jehovah declares! And Jehovah has not sent them, but they hoped to confirm their word.
Did you not see a vain vision and speak a lying divination? Yet you say, Jehovah declares, though I have not spoken.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Because you have spoken vanity and have seen a lie, therefore, behold, I am against you, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And My hand shall be against the prophets who see vanity, and who divine a lie. They shall not be in the council of My people, and they shall not be written in the writing of the house of Israel, and they shall not enter into the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
Because, even because they made My people go astray, saying, Peace! and there was no peace. And he builds a wall, and, behold, others daubed it with lime.
Say to those daubing with lime, Yea, it will fall. There will be a flooding rain; and you, O hailstones, shall fall, and a raging wind shall break.
And, behold, when the wall has fallen, it shall not be said to you, Where is the daubing with which you have daubed?
So the Lord Jehovah says this: I will even break in My fury with a raging wind. And there shall be a flooding rain in My anger, and hailstones in fury, to consume it.
And I will break down the wall that you have daubed with lime and bring it down to the ground; yea, I will bare its base. And it shall fall, and you will be consumed in its midst. And you shall know that I am Jehovah.
And I will fulfill My wrath in the wall, and in those who daubed it with lime. And I will say to you, The wall is not; and, Those who daubed are not,
the prophets of Israel who prophesy as to Jerusalem, and who see visions of peace for her. And there is no peace, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who prophesy out of their heart, and prophesy against them,
and say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Woe to those sewing bands to all joints of my hands, and make long veils for the head of every man of stature, to hunt souls! Will you hunt the souls of My people, and will you save alive the souls for yourselves?
And will you profane Me among My people for handfuls of barley, and for bits of bread, to put to death the souls that should not die, and to save alive the souls that should not live, by your lying to My people who listen to lies?
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, I am against your bands with which you are hunting the souls there, to make them fly. And I will tear them from your arms, and will send out the souls, souls which you are hunting, to make them fly.
Also I will tear your long veils and deliver My people out of your hand. And they shall not again be in your hand to be hunted. And you shall know that I am Jehovah.
Because you have saddened the heart of the righteous with lies, and I have not made him sad, and you have made the hands of the wicked strong, so that he should not turn from his evil way, to keep him alive.
So you shall not see vanity, and you shall not divine any divination. And I will deliver My people out of your hand. And you shall know that I am Jehovah.