And I saw an agent coming down out of heaven having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
And he seized the dragon, the old serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, who leads the whole world astray, and bound him a thousand years.
And he cast him into the abyss, and locked and sealed over him, so that he would no longer lead the nations astray until the thousand years were ended. After these things he must be loosed for a little time.
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them. And judgment was given to them and the souls of those who were beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus, and because of the word of God, and who did not worship the beast nor his image, and did not receive the mark upon their forehead and upon their hand. And they lived, and reigned with the Christ the thousand years.
The rest of the dead did not live until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. On these the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of the Christ, and will reign with him a thousand years.
And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be loosed out of his prison.
And he will come forth to lead astray the nations in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to the battle, of whom the number of them is as the sand of the sea.
And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and surrounded the encampment of the sanctified and the beloved city. And fire came down out of heaven from God, and devoured them.
And the devil who leads them astray was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where also were the beast and the false prophet. And they will be tormented day and night into the ages of the ages.
And I saw a great white throne, and him who sits upon it, from whose face the earth and the sky fled away, and no place was found for them.
And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the one of life. And the dead were judged from the things that were written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead in them. And they were judged, each according to their works.
And death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.
And if any man was found not written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.