We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou did in their days, in the days of old.
Thou drove out the nations with thy hand, but thou planted them. Thou afflicted the peoples, but thou spread them abroad.
For they did not get the land in possession by their own sword, nor did their own arm save them, but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou were favorable to them.
Thou are my King, O God. Command deliverance for Jacob.
Through thee we will push down our adversaries. Through thy name we will tread them under who rise up against us.
For I will not trust in my bow, nor shall my sword save me.
But thou have saved us from our adversaries, and have put them to shame who hate us.
In God we have made our boast all the day long, and we will give thanks to thy name forever. Selah.
But now thou have cast off, and brought us to dishonor, and go not forth with our armies.
Thou make us to turn back from the adversary. And those who hate us take spoil for themselves.
Thou have made us like sheep for food, and have scattered us among the nations.
Thou sell thy people for nothing, and have not increased by their price.
Thou make us a reproach to our neighbors, a scoffing and a derision to those who are round about us.
Thou make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
All the day long my dishonor is before me, and the shame of my face has covered me,
for the voice of him who reproaches and blasphemes, because of the enemy and the avenger.
All this has come upon us, yet we have not forgotten thee, nor have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.
Our heart is not turned back, nor have our steps declined from thy way,
that thou have greatly broken us in the place of jackals, and covered us with the shadow of death.
If we have forgotten the name of our God, or spread forth our hands to a strange god,
will not God search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
Yea, for thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.
Awake, why do thou sleep, O Lord? Arise, cast not off forever.
Why do thou hide thy face, and forget our affliction and our oppression?
For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our body clings to the ground.
Rise up for our help, and redeem us for thy loving kindness' sake.