But it shall come to pass, in the afterpart of the days, that the mountain of the house of Yahweh shall be, set up, as the head of the mountains, and, exalted, shall it be, above the hills,—and peoples, shall stream thereunto;
Yea many nations, shall go, and say—come ye, and let us ascend unto the mountain of Yahweh, and unto the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us of his ways, and we may walk in his paths,—for, out of Zion, shall go forth a law, and, the word of Yahweh, out of Jerusalem;
And he will judge between many peoples, and be umpire to strong nations far and wide,—and they will beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks, Nation—against nation—shall not lift up sword, neither shall they learn—any more—to make war.
And they shall dwell—every man—under his own vine and under his own fig-tree, with none to make them afraid,—for, the mouth of Yahweh of hosts, hath spoken.
For, all the peoples, walk, every man in the name of his god,—we, therefore, will walk in the name of Yahweh our God, to times age-abiding and beyond.
In that day, Declareth Yahweh, will I take up her teat is lame, and, her that hath been an outcast, will I carry,—even whomsoever I have afflicted;
And will make of her that was lame a residue, and of her that was removed far away a strong nation,—and Yahweh, shall be king, over them, in Mount Zion, from henceforth, even unto times age-abiding.
Thou, therefore, O Migdal-eder, mound of the daughter of Zion, as far as thee, shall it come,—so shall arrive the chief dominion, the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem.
Meanwhile, wherefore shouldst thou cry out aloud? King, is there none within thee? or hath, thy counselor, perished? for labour, hath seized thee, as a woman in child-birth:—
Be in labour, and bear, O daughter of Zion, as a woman in child-birth,—for, meanwhile, shalt thou go forth out of the city, and dwell in the field, and shalt come as far as Babylon, there, shalt thou be delivered, there, will Yahweh, redeem thee, out of the grasp of thine enemies.
Meanwhile, therefore, shall be gathered against thee many nations,—who are saying—Let her be defiled, and let our eyes gaze upon Zion.
But, they, know not the purposes of Yahweh, neither have they discerned his counsel,—for he hath gathered them, as sheaves, to a threshing-floor.
Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for, thy horn, will I make to be iron, and, thy hoofs, will I make to he bronze, so shalt thou beat in pieces many peoples,—and shalt devote to Yahweh their unrighteous gain, and their substance, to the Lord of all the earth.