The burden against Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
God is jealous, and the LORD revenges; the LORD revenges and is a possessor of wrath. The LORD takes vengeance against His foes, and He keeps wrath against His enemies.
The LORD is slow to anger, and great in power. And He does not by any means acquit the guilty. The LORD has His way in the tempest and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of His feet.
He rebukes the sea and makes it dry, and dries up all the rivers; Bashan and Carmel wither, and the flower of Lebanon withers.
The mountains quake from Him, and the hills melt, and the earth is lifted up from before Him; even the world and all who dwell in it.
Who can stand before His fury? And who can stand up in the heat of His anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken down because of Him.
The LORD is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and He knows those who trust in Him.
But with an overflowing flood He will make an utter end of its place, and darkness shall pursue His enemies.
What are you plotting against the LORD? He will make an utter end; affliction shall not rise up the second time.
For as thorns are woven together, and as their drunkards are drunken, they shall be devoured like stubble fully dry.
One who devises evil against the LORD has come forth from you, one counseling worthlessness.
So says the LORD: Though secure and likewise many, yet they shall be cut down, and he shall pass away. And though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more.
For now I will break his yoke off you, and will burst your bonds apart.
And the LORD has commanded concerning you, Not one of your name shall be sown any more; I will cut off the graven image and the molten image out of the house of your gods. I will make your grave; for you are despised.
Behold upon the mountains the feet of Him who brings good news, making it heard, Peace! O Judah, keep your appointed feasts, fulfill your vows; for the wicked shall pass through you no more; he is completely cut off.