You shall observe to do all the commandment which I command you this day, that you may live, and multiply, and go in and possess the land which Jehovah swore to your fathers.
You shall remember all the way which Jehovah your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, to prove you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments, or not.
He humbled you, and allowed you to be hungry, and fed you with manna, which you did not know, neither did your fathers know; that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by everything that proceeds out of the mouth God shall man live.
Your clothing did not grow old on you, neither did your foot swell, these forty years.
You shall consider in your heart that as a man chastens his son, so Jehovah your God chastens you.
You shall keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him.
For Jehovah your God brings you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of springs, and underground water flowing into valleys and hills;
a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive trees and honey;
a land in which you shall eat bread without scarceness, you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you may dig copper.
You shall eat and be full, and you shall bless Jehovah your God for the good land which he has given you.
Beware lest you forget Jehovah your God, in not keeping his commandments, and his ordinances, and his statutes, which I command you this day:
lest, when you have eaten and are full, and have built goodly houses, and lived therein;
and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied;
then your heart be lifted up, and you forget Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
who led you through the great and terrible wilderness, with fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where there was no water; who brought you forth water out of the rock of flint;
who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers did not know; that he might humble you, and that he might prove you, to do you good at your latter end:
and lest you say in your heart, "My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth."
But you shall remember Jehovah your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth; that he may establish his covenant which he swore to your fathers, as at this day.
It shall be, if you shall forget Jehovah your God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you this day that you shall surely perish.
As the nations that Jehovah makes to perish before you, so you shall perish; because you wouldn't listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.