In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
And the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
And God said, Let there be light, and there was light.
And God saw the light, that it was good. And God divided the light from the darkness.
And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, one day.
And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.
And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament. And it was so.
And God called the firmament Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, a second day.
And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together to one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so.
And God called the dry land Earth, and he called the gathering together of the waters Seas. And God saw that it was good.
And God said, Let the earth put forth grass, herbs yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit according to their kind (in which is the seed of them) upon the earth. And it was so.
And the earth brought forth grass, herbs yielding seed according to their kind, and trees bearing fruit in which is the seed of it, according to their kind. And God saw that it was good.
And there was evening and there was morning, a third day.
And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of heaven to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years.
And let them be for lights in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth. And it was so.
And God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night, also the stars.
And God set them in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth,
and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good.
And there was evening and there was morning, a fourth day.
And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.
And God created the great sea creatures, and every living creature that moves, which the waters brought forth abundantly, according to their kind, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth.
And there was evening and there was morning, a fifth day.
And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth according to their kind. And it was so.
And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kind, and the cattle according to their kind, and everything that creeps upon the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
And God said, Let us make mankind in our image-after our likeness-and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth.
And God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he created him, male and female he created them.
And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the earth, and have power over it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves upon the earth.
And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed. To you it shall be for food,
and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps upon the earth in which there is life, for food-every green herb. And it was so.
And God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.