And immediately in the morning, the chief priests with the elders and scribes and all the sanhedrin forming a council, binding Jesus, they led Him away and delivered Him to Pilate.
And Pilate questioned Him, Are you the king of the Jews? And answering, He said to him, You say it .
And the chief priests urgently accused Him of many things. But He answered nothing.
But Pilate again questioned Him, saying, Do you answer nothing? Behold, how many things they testify against you.
But Jesus answered nothing any more, so as for Pilate to marvel.
And at a feast, he released to them one prisoner, whomever they asked.
And there was one called Barabbas, having been bound with the insurgents, who in the insurrection had committed murder.
And crying aloud, the crowd began to beg him to do as he always did to them.
But Pilate answered them, saying, Do you desire I should release to you the king of the Jews?
For he knew that the chief priests had delivered Him up through envy.
But the chief priests stirred up the crowd, that rather he should release Barabbas to them.
But answering again, Pilate said to them, What then do you desire I do to him whom you call king of the Jews?
And again they cried out, Crucify him!
But Pilate said to them, For what evil did he do? But they much more cried out, Crucify him!
And deciding to do the easiest to the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas to them. And having flogged Him , he delivered up Jesus, that He might be crucified.
And the soldiers led Him away inside the court, which is the praetorium. And they called together all the cohort.
And they put purple on Him, and they plaited and placed a crown of thorns on Him.
And they began to salute Him, Hail, king of the Jews!
And they struck His head with a reed, and spat at Him. And placing the knees, they bowed to Him.
And when they had mocked Him, they took the purple off Him, and put His own garments on Him. And they led Him out, that they might crucify Him.
And they forced one passing by, Simon, a Cyrenian, coming from a field, the father of Alexander and Rufus, that he might carry His cross.
And they brought Him to Golgotha Place, which translated is Place of a Skull.
And they gave him wine spiced with myrrh to drink. But He did not take it .
And crucifying Him, they divided His garments, casting a lot on them, who and what each should take. Psa. 22:18
And it was the third hour, and they crucified Him.
And the inscription of His charge was written over Him , THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And they crucified two robbers with Him, one off the right, and one off the left of Him.
And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, "And He was numbered with the lawless." Isa. 53:12
And those passing by blasphemed Him, shaking their heads, and saying, Aha! You razing the temple, and in three days building it ,
save yourself and come down from the cross.
And also the chief priests and the scribes mocking to one another said the same, He saved others; he is not able to save himself.
The Christ, the king of Israel? Let him now come down from the cross, that we may see and believe. And the ones crucified with Him insulted Him.
And it being the sixth hour, darkness came over all the land until the ninth hour.
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? (Which being translated is, "My God, My God, why did You forsake Me?") Psa. 22:1; 69:21
And hearing, some of those standing by said, Behold, he calls Elijah.
And one running up, and filling a sponge with "vinegar," and putting it on a reed, "gave Him to drink." But they said, Leave alone, let us see if Elijah comes to take Him down. Psa. 69:21
And letting out a great cry, Jesus expired.
And the veil of the Holy Place was torn into two, from top to bottom.
And standing off across from Him, seeing that He had cried out so, and He expired, the centurion said, Truly, this Man was Son of God.
And also women were watching from a distance, among whom also was Mary Magdalene; also Mary the mother of James the less, and of Joses, and Salome,
who also followed Him and ministered to Him when He was in Galilee; and many other women who came up to Jerusalem with Him.
And it becoming evening already, since it was the preparation, that is, the day before sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathea came, an honorable councillor, who himself was also waiting for the kingdom of God. And taking courage, he went in to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus.
And Pilate marveled if He had already died. And calling the centurion near, he asked him if He died already.
And knowing from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph.
And having bought a linen cloth, and having taken Him down, he wrapped Him in the linen, and laid Him in a tomb which was cut out of rock. And he rolled a stone against the mouth of the tomb.
And Mary Magdalene, and Mary of Joses, saw where He was laid.