The word of the LORD which came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of Hizkiah, in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah.
I will completely snatch away all from on the face of the ground, says the LORD.
I will snatch away man and beast; I will snatch away the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, and the stumbling-blocks, even the wicked; and I will cut off man from the face of the earth, says the LORD.
I will also stretch out My hand on Judah and on all the people of Jerusalem. And I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place, the name of the idol-worshipers, with the priests,
and those bowing to the host of heaven on the housetops, and those bowing, swearing to Jehovah, also swearing by Malcham;
and those drawing back from the LORD, and who have not sought the LORD, nor asked for Him.
Be silent before the face of the Lord Jehovah, for the day of the LORD is at hand. For the LORD has appointed a sacrifice; He has consecrated His called ones.
And it shall be in the day of the LORD's sacrifice, I will punish the rulers, and the king's sons, and all who are clothed in foreign clothing.
And I will punish all those who leap on the threshold in that day, who fill their masters' houses with violence and deceit.
And it shall be in that day, says the LORD, the sound of a cry from the Fish Gate, and a howling from the Second, and a great crashing from the hills.
Howl, people of Maktesh, for all the people of Canaan are cut down; all those who carry silver are cut off.
And it shall be in that time I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and punish the men who are settled on their lees; who say in their heart, The LORD will not do good, nor will He do evil.
And their goods shall become a prize and their houses a waste. They shall also build houses, but not live in them, and they shall plant vineyards, but not drink their wine.
The great day of the LORD is near; it is near and rushing greatly, the voice of the day of the LORD. The mighty man shall cry bitterly there.
That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of waste and ruin, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness,
a day of the ram's horn and alarm against the fortified cities, and against the high towers.
And I will bring distress on men, so that they shall walk with the blind, because they have sinned against the LORD. And their blood shall be poured out as dust, and their flesh as dung.
Their silver nor their gold will not be able to deliver them in the day of the LORD's wrath; but the whole land shall be devoured by the fire of His jealousy. For He shall make even a full, yea, a speedy end of all the dwellers in the land.