Now, the Philistines, fought against Israel,—and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and the wounded fell in Mount Gilboa.
And the Philistines followed hard after Saul, and after his sons,—and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, sons of Saul.
And the battle, went sore, against Saul, and the archers discovered him with the bow,—and he was terrified because of the archers.
Therefore said Saul unto his armour-bearer, Draw out thy sword and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his armour-bearer would not, for he feared greatly,—so then Saul took the sword, and fell upon it.
And, when his armour-bearer saw that Saul was dead, then, he also, fell upon the sword, and died.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and, all his house, together, died.
And, when all the men of Israel that were in the vale saw, that they had fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, then forsook they their cities, and fled, and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass, on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain,—that they found Saul, and his sons, lying prostrate in Mount Gilboa.
So they stript him, and took his head, and his armour,—and sent throughout the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it to their idols, and to the people.
And they put his armour, in the house of their gods,—but, his skull, fastened they up, in the house of Dagon.
And, when all Jabesh-Gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
then rose up all the men of valour, and took away the corpse of Saul, and the corpses of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh,—and buried their bodies under the terebinth, in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Thus died Saul, for his unfaithfulness wherewith he dealt unfaithfully against Yahweh, over the word of Yahweh, which he kept not,—and, also, in asking by necromancy when he desired to enquire;
and enquired not of Yahweh, wherefore he slew him,—and turned round the kingdom unto David, son of Jesse.