So Abram came up out of Egypt he and his wife and all that he had and Lot with him, towards the South.
Now, Abram, was very rich,—in cattle, in silver and in gold.
And he went his way, by his removals, from the South even as far as to Bethel,—as far as the place where his tent was at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai:
unto the place of the altar, which he made there at first,—and Abram called there, on the name of Yahweh.
Now, Lot also, who was going with Abram, had flocks and herds and tents.
And the land suffered them not to dwell together,—because their substance had become, great, so that they could not dwell together.
And there arose a strife betwixt the herdmen of Abram, and the herdmen of Lot. Now the Canaanite and the Perizzite, were then dwelling in the land.
So then Abram said unto Lot Pray let not cause of strife arise betwixt me and thee, or betwixt my herdmen and thy herdmen; for brethren, are we.
Is not, all the land, before thee? I pray thee, separate thyself from me,—if to the left hand, then I will go to the right, if to the right hand, then I will go to the left.
So Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the circuit of the Jordan, that the whole of it, was well-watered,—before Yahweh destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, like the Garden of Yahweh, like the land of Egypt, as thou enterest into Zoar.
And Lot chose for himself all the circuit of the Jordan, so Lot brake up eastwards,—and they separated themselves, each man from his brother:
Abram, fixed his dwelling in the land of Canaan,—but, Lot, fixed his dwelling among the cities, of the circuit, and moved his tent as far as Sodom.
Now, the men of Sodom were base and sinful,—against Yahweh, exceedingly.
And, Yahweh, said unto Abram after that Lot had separated himself from him, Lift up, I pray thee thine eyes and look, from the place where thou art,—northward and southward and eastward and westward;
for all the land which thou art beholding—to thee, will I give it, and to thy seed unto times age-abiding;
and I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth,—so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, thy seed also, may be numbered.
Rise! go up and down in the land, to the length thereof and to the breadth thereof, for to thee, will I give it.
So Abram moved his tent and came in and dwelt among the oaks of Mamre, which were in Hebron,—and built there an altar to Yahweh.