Now the Apostles and the brethren who were throughout Judaea heard that, the nations also, had welcomed the word of God.
And, when Peter came up unto Jerusalem, they of the circumcision began to find fault with him,
Saying—he went in unto men uncircumcised, and did eat with them.
But Peter, making a beginning, went on to set forth the matter unto them in order, saying—
I was in the city of Joppa praying, and saw in a trance, a vision:—coming down a sort of vessel, like a large sheet, by four corners, being let down out of heaven, and it came even unto me:
Into which steadfastly looking, began to observe, and saw the quadrupeds of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the creeping things, and the birds of heaven.
Moreover heard a voice also, saying unto me—Rise, Peter! slay and eat.
But I said—By no means, Lord, because, a common or unclean thing, hath at no time entered into my mouth.
And a voice answered, a second time, out of heaven—What things, God, hath cleansed, be not, thou, making common.
And, this, took place thrice,—and the whole was drawn up again into heaven;
And lo! immediately, three men halted at the house wherein we were, sent from Caesarea unto me.
And the Spirit bade me go with them, nothing doubting. And there went with me these six brethren also; and we entered into the house of the man,
And he related to us how he had seen the messenger in his house, standing, and saying—Send away unto Joppa, and fetch Simon, who is surnamed Peter;
Who shall speak words unto thee, whereby thou shall be saved, thou, and all thy house.
And, as I began to be speaking, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, just as upon us also at the beginning.
And I was put in mind of the word of the Lord, how he used to say—John, indeed, immersed with water; but, ye, shall be immersed in Holy Spirit.
If therefore the like free-gift God gave unto them, as even unto us, when we had believed upon the Lord Jesus Christ, who was, I, that could withstand God?
And, having heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying—Hence, even unto the nations, God hath granted repentance unto life.
They, therefore, who had been scattered abroad by reason of the tribulation that took place on account of Stephen, passed through as far as Phoenice and Cyprus and Antioch, unto no one speaking the word, save alone unto Jews.
And there were some from among them, Cyprians and Cyrenians, who, indeed, coming unto Antioch, began speaking, even unto the Grecian Jews, announcing the glad tidings as to the Lord Jesus;
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number—they who believed—turned unto the Lord.
And the matter was reported in the hearing of the assembly that was in Jerusalem, concerning them; and they sent forth Barnabas, as far as Antioch;
Who, arriving, and seeing the favour which was of God, rejoiced, and went on to beseech all, with the purpose of their heart, to abide [in] the Lord;
Because he was a good man, and full of Holy Spirit and faith; and a considerable multitude were added unto the Lord.
He went away, however, unto Tarsus, to seek up Saul;
And, finding him, he brought him unto Antioch. And so it was with them, that, for a whole year, they were brought together in the assembly, and taught a considerable multitude; also that the disciples, first in Antioch, were called, Christians.
Now, in these days, there came down from Jerusalem, prophets, unto Antioch.
And one from among them, by name Agabus, rising up, gave a sign, through means of the Spirit, that, a great famine, was coming over all the inhabited earth; which, indeed, came to pass under Claudius.
And, according as any one of the disciples was being prospered, they each one of them set apart [something] for ministering, to send unto the brethren, who dwelt in Jerusalem;—
Which thing they also did, sending it unto the Elders, through the hand of Barnabas and Saul.