At that time on the sabbath, Jesus went through the grain fields. And His disciples were hungry, and began to pluck heads of grain and to eat.
But seeing, the Pharisees said to Him, Behold, your disciples are doing what it is not lawful to do on the sabbath.
But He said to them, Have you not read what David did, when he and those with him hungered?
How he entered into the house of God, and he ate the Bread of Arrangement, which it was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those with him, but for the priests only?
Or have you not read in the Law that on the sabbaths the priests in the temple profane the sabbath and are guiltless?
But I say to you, One greater than the temple is here.
But if you had known what this is, "I desire mercy and not sacrifice," you would not have condemned the guiltless. Hos. 6:6
For the Son of man is also Lord of the sabbath.
And moving from there, He came into their synagogue.
And, behold, a man having a withered hand was there. And they asked Him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbaths? (that they might accuse Him).
But He said to them, What man of you will be who will have one sheep, and if this one fall into a pit on the sabbaths, will he not lay hold of it and raise it up?
How much more, then, does a man excel a sheep! So that it is lawful to do well on the sabbaths.
Then He said to the man, Stretch out your hand! And he stretched out. And it was restored sound as the other.
But as they were leaving, the Pharisees took up a council against Him, how they might destroy Him.
But knowing, Jesus withdrew from there. And great crowds followed Him, and He healed them all
and warned them that they should not make Him manifest.
So that might be fulfilled that spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying,
"Behold My Child whom I chose, My Beloved, in whom My soul has delighted! I will put My Spirit on Him, and He will declare judgment to the nations.
He will not strive nor cry out, nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets.
A bruised reed He will not break, and smoking flax He will not quench, until He bring forth judgment to victory." Isa. 42:1 -3
"And the nations will hope in His name." LXX-Isa. 42:4
Then one having been demon-possessed was brought to Him, blind and dumb. And He healed him, so that the blind and dumb one could both speak and see.
And all the crowds were amazed, and said, Is this not the son of David?
But hearing, the Pharisees said, This one does not cast out demons except by Beelzebub, ruler of the demons.
But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, He said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to ruin. And every city or house divided against itself will not stand.
And if Satan throws out Satan, he was divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
And if I throw out the demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons throw them out? Because of this, they shall be your judges.
But if I cast out the demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come on you.
Or how is anyone able to enter the house of the strong one and plunder his goods, if he does not first tie up the strong one; and then he will plunder his house?
The one who is not with Me is against Me, and the one who does not gather with Me scatters.
Because of this, I say to you, Every sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven to men, but the blasphemy concerning the Spirit shall not be forgiven to men.
And whoever speaks a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, not in this age nor in the coming one .
Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree corrupt and its fruit corrupt; for the tree is known by the fruit.
Offspring of vipers! How can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
The good man out of the good treasure of the heart puts forth good things. And the evil man out of the evil treasure puts forth evil things.
But I say to you, that every idle word, whatever men may speak, they shall give an account of it in Judgment Day.
For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying, Teacher, we desire to see a sign from you.
But answering, He said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet.
And even as "Jonah was in the belly of the huge fish three days and three nights," so shall the Son of man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights. Jon. 1:17
Men, Ninevites, will stand up in the Judgment with this generation and will condemn it. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and, behold, a Greater-than-Jonah is here.
The queen of the south will be raised in the Judgment with this generation and will condemn it. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and, behold, a Greater-than-Solomon is here.
But when the unclean spirit goes from a man, he goes through dry places seeking rest and does not find it .
Then he says, I will return to my house from which I came out. And coming, he finds it standing empty, swept and decorated.
Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits more evil than himself, and entering dwells there. And the last things of that man become worse than the first. So it will be also to this evil generation.
But while He was yet speaking to the crowds, behold, His mother and brothers were standing outside, seeking to speak to Him.
Then one said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside, seeking to speak to You.
But answering, He said to the one speaking to Him, Who is My mother? And who are My brothers?
And stretching out His hand to His disciples, He said, Behold, My mother and My brothers.
For whoever shall do the will of My Father in Heaven, that one is My brother and sister and mother.