And as he was passing along, he saw a man who had been blind from his birth.
And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither did this man sin, nor his parents; but that the works of God might be made manifest in him.
We must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day; the night is coming, when no one can work.
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
Having thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay with the spittle, and anointed his eyes with the clay,
and said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam; (which is, when translated, Sent.) He went away therefore, and washed and came seeing.
The neighbors therefore, and they who before had seen him as a beggar, said, Is not this he that sits and begs?
Some said, This is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. He said, I am he.
They said therefore to him How then were thine eyes opened?
He answered, The man who is called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam, and wash. I went therefore and washed, and received sight.
And they said to him, Where is that man? He saith, I do not know.
They bring to the Pharisees him who had once been blind.
And the day on which Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes was the sabbath.
Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. He said to them, He put clay on my eyes, and I washed them, and I see.
Therefore some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because he keepeth not the sabbath. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such signs. And there was a division among them.
They say therefore to the blind man again, What dost thou say of him for having opened thine eyes? And he said, He is a prophet.
The Jews therefore did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight.
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? How then doth he now see?
His parents, answered and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;
but by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who opened his eyes, we know not; ask him, he is of age; he will speak for himself.
This his parents said, because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed, that if any one should acknowledge him as the Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
Therefore his parents said, He is of age; ask him.
They therefore called a second time the man that had been blind, and said to him, Give glory to God; we know that this man is a sinner.
He therefore answered, Whether he is a sinner, I know not; one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.
They said to him, What did he do to thee? How did he open thine eyes?
He answered them, I have already told you, and ye did not hear; why would ye hear it again? Are ye also inclined to become his disciples?
They reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are disciples of Moses.
We know that God hath spoken to Moses; but as for this man, we know not whence he is.
The man answered and said to them, Why, herein is a marvelous thing, that ye know not whence he is, and yet he opened my eyes.
We know that God heareth not sinners; but if any one is a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.
Since the world began, it was never heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind.
If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.
They answered and said to him, Thou wast wholly born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out.
Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and he found him, and said, Dost thou believe in the Son of man?
He answered and said, And who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?
Jesus said to him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee.
And he said, I believe, Lord; and he prostrated himself before him.
And Jesus said, For judgment came I into this world; that they who see not might see, and that they who see might become blind.
Some of the Pharisees who were with him heard this, and said to him, Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them, If ye were blind, ye would not have sin; but now ye say, We see. Your sin remaineth.