Woe to the destroyer, and you not being destroyed; and to the betrayer, and they did not betray you! When you finish destroying, you will be destroyed; when you stop betraying, they will betray you.
O Jehovah, be gracious to us. We have hoped in You; be their arm in the mornings, our salvation also in time of distress.
At the sound of the tumult, the peoples fled; at Your exaltation, nations scattered.
And Your prey shall be gathered as the stripping locust gathers; as locusts run to and fro, he also runs about on it.
Jehovah is exalted, for He lives on high; He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
And He will be the security of your times, strength of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; the fear of Jehovah is His treasure.
Behold, their heroes cry outside; the envoys of peace shall weep bitterly.
The highways are deserted; the path crosser ceases. He has broken the covenant; he has rejected cities; he has not respected man.
The land mourns and droops; Lebanon is ashamed; Sharon withers like a wilderness; Bashan is shaken out; also Carmel.
Now I will rise up, says Jehovah. Now I will be exalted; now I will be lifted up.
You shall conceive chaff; you shall bear stumble; your fiery breath shall devour you.
And peoples shall be as burnings of lime; as thorns cut away, they shall be burned in fire.
Distant ones, hear what I have done; and you near ones, know My might.
The sinners of Zion are afraid; terror has seized profane ones; who of us shall tarry with consuming fire? Who of us shall tarry with everlasting burnings?
He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly; he who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands free from taking the bribe, who stops his ear from hearing of blood, and shuts his eyes from looking at evil.
He shall live on high; strongholds of rocks will be his retreat; his bread shall be given; his waters are faithful.
Your eyes shall see the king in his beauty; they shall see a land that is very far off.
Your heart shall ponder terror: Where is the scribe? Where is he weighing? Where is he counting the towers?
You shall not see the fierce people, from hearing a people of a difficult lip, of a foreign tongue, that none understands.
Behold, Zion, the city of our appointed meetings! Your eyes shall see Jerusalem, a quiet home. a tent that shall not be moved; its stakes shall not be pulled up forever, nor shall any of its cords be pulled off.
But majestic Jehovah will place there for us a place of rivers and streams, broad on both hands; a ship with oars shall not go in it, and a majestic boat shall not pass through it.
For Jehovah is our judge; Jehovah is our lawgiver; Jehovah is our king; He will save us.
Your ropes are loosened; they do not hold the base of their mast; they could not spread the sail. Then the prey of much plunder shall be divided; the lame shall seize on the spoil.
And an inhabitant shall not say, I am sick; the people who live in it shall not say , iniquity is taken away.