I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service.
And be not conformed to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may learn what the will of God is―the good, and the acceptable, and the perfect.
For I say, through the grace given to me, to every one that is among you, that he must not think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but that he be disposed to think modestly, as God has distributed to each a measure of faith.
For as we have many members in one body, and all the members have not the same office,
so we, the many, are one body in Christ, and members one of another.
Since, then, we have gifts which differ according to the grace that is given to us, whether we have the gift of prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of our faith;
or, if we have a ministry, let us be active in our ministry; if any one teaches, let him attend to his teaching;
or, if any exhorts, let him attend to exhortation; if any one gives, let him do it with sincerity; he that rules, with diligence: he that shows mercy, with cheerfulness.
Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good;
in love to the brotherhood, be kindly affectionate one to another; in showing honor, be examples one to another;
in what requires diligence, be not slothful; in spirit, be fervent; in service, be devoted to the Lord;
in hope, be joyful; in affliction, be patient; in prayer, be persevering;
administer to the necessities of the saints; be careful to entertain strangers;
bless them that persecute you; bless, and curse not;
rejoice with them that rejoice, and weep with them that weep;
cultivate the same disposition, one toward another: mind not high things, but conform yourselves to things that are lowly.   Be not wise in your own conceits;
repay to no one evil for evil; practice that which is honorable in the sight of all men.
If possible, as far as may be in your power, be at peace with all men.
Beloved, avenge not yourselves, but give place to the wrath of God; for it is written: Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.
If, therefore, your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him drink; for by doing this, you will heap coals of fire on his head.
Be not overcome by evil; but overcome evil with good.