And the Lord answering Job out of the whirlwind, said:
Gird up thy loins like a man: I will ask thee, and do thou tell me.
Wilt thou make void my judgment: and condemn me, that thou mayst be justified?
And hast thou an arm like God, and canst thou thunder with a voice like him?
Clothe thyself with beauty, and set thyself up on high, and be glorious, and put on goodly garments.
Scatter the proud in thy indignation, and behold every arrogant man, and humble him.
Look on all that are proud, and confound them, and crush the wicked in their place,
Hide them in the dust together, and plunge their faces into the pit.
Then I will confess that thy right hand is able to save thee.
Behold behemoth whom I made with thee, he eateth grass like an ox.
His strength is in his loins, and his force in the navel of his belly.
He setteth up his tail like a cedar, the sinews of his testicles are wrapped together.
His bones are like pipes of brass, his gristle like plates of iron.
He is the beginning of the ways of God, who made him, he will apply his sword.
To him the mountains bring forth grass: there all the beasts of the field shall play.
He sleepeth under the shadow, in the covert of the reed, and in moist places.
The shades cover his shadow, the willows of the brook shall compass him about.
Behold, he will drink up a river, and not wonder: and he trusteth that the Jordan may run into his mouth.
In his eyes as with a hook he shall take him, and bore through his nostrils with stakes.
Canst thou draw out the leviathan with a hook, or canst thou tie his tongue with a cord?
Canst thou put a ring in his nose, or bore through his jaw with a buckle?
Will he make many supplications to thee, or speak soft words to thee?
Will he make a covenant with thee, and wilt thou take him to be a servant for ever?
Shalt thou play with him as with a bird, or tie him up for thy handmaids?
Shall friends cut him in pieces, shall merchants divide him?
Wilt thou fill nets with his skin, and the cabins of fishes with his head?
Lay thy hand upon him: remember the battle, and speak no more.
Behold his hope shall fail him, and in the sight of all he shall be cast down.