Ye masters! that which is just and equitable, unto your servants, be rendering, knowing that, ye also, have a Master in heaven.
Unto prayer, be devoting yourselves, watching therein with thanksgiving:
Praying, at the same time, for us also,—that, God, would open unto us a door for the word, so that we may speak the sacred secret of the Christ—for the sake of which also I am in bonds,
That I may make it manifest as behoveth me to speak.
In wisdom, be walking towards them who are without,—the opportunity, buying out for yourselves,
Your discourse being always with benefit, with salt, seasoned,—that ye may know how it behoveth you, unto each one, to be making answer.
All the things which relate unto myself, shall Tychicus make known unto you—the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow-servant in the Lord,
Whom I have sent unto you, to this very end,—that ye may get to know the things which concern us, and he may encourage you hearts:
Together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is from among you:—all things, unto you, will they make known, that [are taking place] here.
Aristarchus, my fellow-captive, saluteth you; and Mark, the first cousin of Barnabas,—concerning whom ye have received commands—if he come unto you, give him welcome;
And Jesus, he that is called Justus,—they being of the circumcision; these only, [are my] fellow-workers unto the kingdom of God, men who have been, unto me, a comfort.
Epaphras who is from among you, a servant of Christ Jesus, saluteth you,—at all times, contending in your behalf in his prayers, that ye may be caused to stand complete and fully assured in everything willed by God;
For I bear him witness, that he hath great toil in behalf of you, and them in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.
Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, salute you.
Salute ye the brethren, in Laodicea, also Nymphas, and the assembly, which meeteth at her house.
And, as soon as the epistle hath been read amongst you, cause that, in the assembly of Laodiceans also, it be read; and, that from Laodicea, that, ye also, read.
And say to Archippus: be taking heed unto the ministry which thou hast accepted in the Lord,—that, the same, thou fulfil.
The salutation of me Paul, with my own hand:—keep in mind my bonds. Favour be with you!