And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Take Aaron, and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and the bullock of the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened things,
and gather all the assembly together at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And Moses did as Jehovah had commanded him, and the congregation was gathered to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And Moses said to the assembly, This is the thing which Jehovah has commanded done.
And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and bathed them in water,
and put on him the tunic, and girded him with the girdle, and clothed him with the upper robe, and put the ephod on him, and girded him with the ephod on him, and girded him with the girdle of the ephod, and bound it to him with it;
and put the breast pocket on him, and put the Urim and the Thummim into the breast pocket,
and put the miter on his head, and on the miter, on its front, he put the golden plate, the holy crown; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle, and all in it, and sanctified them;
and he sprinkled of it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar, and all its vessels, and the laver, and its base, to sanctify them.
And he poured of the anointing oil on the head of Aaron, and anointed him, to sanctify him.
And Moses brought the sons of Aaron near, and clothed them with tunics, and girded them with girdles, and bound turbans on them, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And he brought the bullock of the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bullock of the sin offering;
and one killed it ; and Moses took the blood and put it on the horns of the altar all around with his finger, and cleansed the altar; and he poured out the blood at the base of the altar, and sanctified it, to make atonement on it.
And he took all the fat on the inward parts, and the fold above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and Moses burned it as incense on the altar.
And the bullock, and its skin, and its flesh, and its dung, he burned with fire, at the outside of the camp, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And he brought the ram of the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram;
and one killed it , and Moses sprinkled the blood on the altar all around;
and he cut the ram into its pieces, and Moses burned it as incense with the head, and the pieces, and the fat.
And he washed the inward parts and the legs with water, and Moses burned it as incense with the whole ram on the altar; it is a burnt offering, for a soothing fragrance; it is a fire offering to Jehovah, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And he brought the second ram, a ram of the consecrations, and Aaron and his sons lay their hands on the head of the ram.
And one killed it , and Moses took of its blood and put it on the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot.
And he brought Aaron's sons, and Moses put of the blood on the tip of their right ear, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot. And Moses sprinkled the blood on the altar all around,
and took the fat, and the fat tail, and all the fat on the inward parts, and the fold above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right leg.
And out of the basket of unleavened bread which was before Jehovah, he took one unleavened cake, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the fat, and on the right leg;
and placed the whole on the hands of Aaron, and on the hands of his sons, and waved them, a wave offering before Jehovah.
And Moses took them off their hands and burned them with incense on the altar, on the burnt offering; they are consecrations for soothing fragrance; it is a fire offering to Jehovah.
And Moses took the breast and waved it, a wave offering before Jehovah, of the ram of the consecrations. It was Moses' portion, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood on the altar, and sprinkled on Aaron, on his garments, and on his sons, and on his sons' garments with him. And he sanctified Aaron, his garments, and his sons, and the garments of his sons with him.
And Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, Boil the flesh at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and you shall eat it there, and the bread in the basket of the consecrations, as I have commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it.
And the rest of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn with fire;
and you shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation for seven days, until the days of your consecration are fulfilled. For He shall consecrate you seven days;
as He has done on this day, Jehovah has commanded you to do, to make atonement for you.
And you shall remain at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation day and night for seven days, and you shall keep the charge of Jehovah and shall not die; for so I have been commanded.
And Aaron and his sons did all the things which Jehovah had commanded by the hand of Moses.