Paul, an apostle, (not from men, nor by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead,)
and all the brethren that are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
grace be to you, and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
to whom be glory from age to age. Amen.
I am astonished that you are so soon turning away from him that called you into the grace of Christ, to another gospel:
which is nothing else than that there are some who trouble you, and are determined to pervert the gospel of the Christ.
But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach to you any other gospel than that which we have preached, let him be accursed.
As we said before, so even now I say again, if any one preaches to you any other gospel than that which you have received, let him be accursed.
For, do I now seek the favor of men, or of God? or do I strive to please men? If, indeed, I would still please men, I should not be the servant of Christ.
But I make known to you, brethren, that the gospel which is preached by me, is not according to man:
for neither did I receive it from man, nor was it taught me, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.
For you have heard of my former mode of life in Judaism, that I greatly persecuted the church of God, and laid it waste;
and I surpassed in Judaism many of my own age and nation, being more exceedingly zealous for the tradition of my fathers.
But when God, who chose me from my mother’s womb, and called me by his grace, was pleased
to reveal his Sou in me, that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I at once declined all conference with flesh and blood:
nor did I go up to Jerusalem, to those who were apostles before me; but I went away into Arabia, and then returned to Damascus.
Then, after three years, I went up to Jerusalem, in order to become personally acquainted with Peter; and I remained with him fifteen days:
but of the apostles I saw no other, but James the brother of the Lord.
With respect to the things which I now write to you, behold, before God I lie not.
Then, I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia:
but I was not known, in person, to the churches of Judea which are in Christ.
They had heard only that he who formerly persecuted us was now preaching the faith which he once destroyed.
And they glorified God in me.