Ye are the sons of Jehovah your God. Ye shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for the dead.
For thou are a holy people to Jehovah thy God, and Jehovah has chosen thee to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples that are upon the face of the earth.
Thou shall not eat any abominable thing.
These are the beasts which ye may eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat,
the hart, and the gazelle, and the roebuck, and the wild goat, and the ibex, and the antelope, and the chamois.
And every beast that parts the hoof, and has the hoof cloven in two, and chews the cud, among the beasts, that may ye eat.
Nevertheless of those that chew the cud, or of those that have the hoof cloven, these ye shall not eat: the camel, and the hare, and the coney, because they chew the cud but do not part the hoof, they are unclean to you,
and the swine, because he parts the hoof but does not chew the cud, he is unclean to you. Of their flesh ye shall not eat, and their carcasses ye shall not touch.
These ye may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales ye may eat.
And whatever does not have fins and scales ye shall not eat; it is unclean to you.
Of all clean birds ye may eat,
but these are those of which ye shall not eat: the eagle, and the ossifrage, and the osprey,
and the glede, and the falcon, and the kite according to its kind,
and every raven after its kind,
and the ostrich, and the night-hawk, and the sea-gull, and the hawk according to its kind,
the little owl, and the great owl, and the horned owl,
and the pelican, and the vulture, and the cormorant,
and the stork, and the heron according to its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
And all winged creeping things are unclean to you. They shall not be eaten.
Of all clean birds ye may eat.
Ye shall not eat of anything that dies of itself. Thou may give it to the sojourner who is within thy gates, that he may eat it, or thou may sell it to a foreigner, for thou are a holy people to Jehovah thy God. Thou shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk.
Thou shall surely tithe all the increase of thy seed; that which comes forth from the field year by year.
And thou shall eat before Jehovah thy God, in the place which he shall choose to cause his name to dwell there, the tithe of thy grain, of thy new wine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herd and of thy flock, that thou may learn to fear Jehovah thy God always.
And if the way is too long for thee, so that thou are not able to carry it, because the place is too far from thee, which Jehovah thy God shall choose to set his name there when Jehovah thy God shall bless thee,
then thou shall turn it into money, and bind up the money in thy hand, and shall go to the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose.
And thou shall bestow the money for whatever thy soul desires, for oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, or for strong drink, or for whatever thy soul asks of thee. And thou shall eat there before Jehovah thy God, and thou shall rejoice, thou and thy household.
And the Levite who is within thy gates, thou shall not forsake him, for he has no portion nor inheritance with thee.
At the end of every three years thou shall bring forth all the tithe of thine increase in the same year, and shall lay it up within thy gates.
And the Levite, because he has no portion nor inheritance with thee, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within thy gates, shall come, and shall eat and be satisfied, that Jehovah thy God may bless thee in all the work of thy hand which thou do.