Now I commend to you our sister Phoebe who is a helper of the congregation at Cenchreae,
so that ye may welcome her in the Lord worthily of the sanctified, and that ye provide for her in whatever matter she may have need of you, for she also became a helper of many, and of me myself.
Salute Prisca and Aquila my co-workmen in Christ Jesus
(who laid down their own neck for my life, to whom not only I thank, but also all the congregations of the Gentiles), and the congregation associated with their house.
Salute Epaenetus my beloved who is the first fruit of Achaia for Christ.
Salute Mary who labored many things for us.
Salute Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners who are notable men among the apostles, who also became in Christ before me.
Salute Ampliatus my beloved in the Lord.
Salute Urbanus our co-workman in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
Salute Apelles, a man reliable in Christ. Salute the men from those of Aristobulus.
Salute Herodion my kinsman. Salute the men from those of Narcissus who are in the Lord.
Salute Tryphaena and Tryphosa, the women who labor in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis who labored many things in the Lord.
Salute Rufus the chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers with them.
Salute Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the sanctified with them.
Salute each other by a holy kiss. The congregations of Christ salute you.
Now I beseech you, brothers, watch out for those who make the divisions and the stumbling blocks, contrary to the doctrine that ye learned, and turn away from them.
For such kind serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly. And by their smooth words and elegant speech they deceive the hearts of the naive.
For your obedience reached to all men. Therefore I rejoice over you, but I want you to be indeed wise in the good and pure in the evil.
And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with you.
Timothy my co-workman, and Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you.
I Tertius, the man who transcribed the letter, salute you in the Lord.
Gaius my host, and of the whole congregation, salutes you. Erastus, the manager of the city, salutes you, and Quartus the brother.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with all of you. Truly.
Now to him who is able to establish you according to my good news, and the preaching of Jesus Christ according to a revelation of the mystery that has been kept secret for eternal times,
but that was now revealed, and by prophetic scriptures, according to a commandment of the eternal God that was made known to all the nations for obedience of faith,
to the only wise God through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory into the ages. Truly.