And He again entered into the synagogue. And a man was there who had a withered hand.
And they watched Him to see if He would heal him on the sabbath day, so that they might accuse Him.
And He said to the man who had the withered hand, Arise! Come into the middle.
And He said to them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? To save life, or to kill? But they were silent.
And looking around on them with anger, being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts, He said to the man, Stretch out your hand! And he stretched it out. And his hand was restored whole, like the other.
The Pharisees went out and immediately took counsel with the Herodians against Him, how they might destroy Him.
And Jesus withdrew to the sea with His disciples. And a great crowd from Galilee followed Him, and from Judea,
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and from beyond Jordan, and those around Tyre and Sidon, a great throng came to him, having heard how much He was doing.
And He spoke to His disciples, so that a small boat should stay near to Him, because of the crowd, lest they should press on Him.
For He had healed many, so that they pressed on Him in order to touch Him, as many as had plagues.
And unclean spirits, when they saw Him, they fell down before Him and cried, saying, You are the Son of God!
And He strictly charged them that they should not make Him known.
And He went up into a mountain and called near those whom He would. And they came to Him.
And He ordained twelve, that they should be with Him, and that He might send them out to proclaim,
and to have authority to heal sicknesses, and to cast out demons.
And He put on Simon the name Peter.
And He put on James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, the names Boanerges, which is, the Sons of Thunder.
And He appointed Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. And they went into a house.
And again a crowd came together, so that they could not even eat bread.
And hearing, those with Him went out to take hold of Him; for they said, He is insane.
And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, He has Beelzebub, and He casts out demons by the ruler of the demons.
And He called them and said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
And if Satan rises up against himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end.
No one can enter into a strong one's house and plunder his goods, except he first binds the strong man. And then he will plunder his house.
Truly I say to you, all sins shall be forgiven to the sons of men, and blasphemies with which they shall blaspheme.
But he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never shall have forgiveness, but is liable to eternal condemnation.
Because they said, He has an unclean spirit.
Then His brothers and His mother came. And standing outside, they sent to Him, calling Him.
And the crowd sat about Him, and they said to Him, Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are outside seeking for You.
And He answered them, saying, Who is My mother, or My brothers?
And He looked around on those who sat about Him, and said, Behold My mother and My brothers!
For whoever does the will of God, the same is My brother and My sister and My mother.