Behold, the day of Jehovah cometh, When thy spoil shall be divided in the midst of thee.
For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle; And the city shall be taken, And the houses shall be rifled, And the women shall be ravished; And half of the city shall go forth into captivity, And the residue of the people shall not be cut off from the city.
Then shall Jehovah go forth, And fight against those nations, As he once fought in the day of battle.
And his feet shall stand in that day upon the Mount of Olives, Which is before Jerusalem on the east; And the Mount of Olives shall be cloven in the middle of it, eastward and westward, Into a very great valley; And half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, And half of it toward the south.
And ye shall flee through the valley of my mountains, For the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal; Yea, ye shall flee, as ye fled before the earthquake In the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. And Jehovah, my God, will come, And all his holy ones with him.
And it shall come to pass in that day That there shall he no light, but cold and ice;
And there shall be one day, (Known to Jehovah is it,) It shall be neither day nor night; But at the time of evening there shall be light.
And it shall come to pass in that day That living waters shall go out from Jerusalem, Half of them toward the eastern sea, And half of them toward the western sea; In summer and in winter shall they be.
And Jehovah shall be king over all the earth; In that day shall Jehovah be one, and his name one.
The whole land shall be turned into a plain, From Geba to Rimmon, south of Jerusalem; And the city shall be exalted and inhabited in her place, From the gate of Benjamin to the place of the former gate, And to the corner gate, And from the tower of Hananeel to the king’s wine-presses.
Men shall dwell therein, And there shall be no more destruction; But Jerusalem shall dwell securely.
And this shall be the plague With which Jehovah will smite all the nations Which warred against Jerusalem: Their flesh shall consume away while they stand upon their feet, And their eyes shall consume away in their sockets, And their tongue shall consume away in their mouth.
And it shall come to pass in that day, That there shall be a great tumult among them from Jehovah; And they shall lay hold every one on the hand of his neighbor, And his hand shall rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
And Judah also shall fight against Jerusalem; But the wealth of all the nations round about shall be gathered together, Gold and silver and apparel in great abundance.
And so shall be the plague of the horse, Of the mule, of the camel, and of the ass, And of every beast which shall be in those camps, Even as this plague.
And it shall be, that every one that is left Of all the nations which come against Jerusalem, Even they shall go up, from year to year, To worship the King, Jehovah of hosts, And to keep the feast of tabernacles.
And it shall be that whoso will not go up, Of the families of the earth, to Jerusalem, To worship the King, Jehovah of hosts, Upon them shall be no rain.
And if the family of Egypt go not up, and come not, Then not for them shall there be water. The plague shall come upon them With which Jehovah shall smite the nations Which go not up to keep the feast of tabernacles.
This shall be the punishment of Egypt, And the punishment of all the nations That come not up to keep the feast of tabernacles.
In that day, upon the bells of the horses Shall be written, "Holy to Jehovah." And the pots in the house of Jehovah Shall be as the bowls before the altar.
And every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah Shall be holy to Jehovah of hosts; And all that sacrifice shall come, And shall take of them, and seethe therein. And there shall be no more a trader In the house of Jehovah of hosts, in that day.