And, as soon as he opened the seventh seal, there came to be silence in heaven, as it were half an hour.
And I saw the seven messengers which, before God, do stand; and there were given unto them seven trumpets.
And, another messenger, came, and took his stand at the altar, having a censer of gold: and there was given unto him much incense, that he might give [it] unto the prayers of all the saints, upon the altar of gold that is before the throne.
And the smoke of the incense went up, with the prayers of the saints, out of the hand of the messenger before God.
And the messenger at once took the censer, and filled it from the fire of the altar, and cast unto the earth; and there came to be thunderings, and voices, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
And, the seven messengers who had the seven trumpets, prepared themselves, that they might sound.
And, the first, sounded; and there came to be hail and fire mingled with blood, and it was cast unto the earth; and, the third of the earth, was burned up, and, the third of the trees, was burned up, and, all green herbage, was burned up.
And, the second messenger, sounded; and, as it were a great mountain burning with fire, was cast into the sea; and the third of the sea became blood,
and the third of the creatures which were in the sea, which had life, died, the third of the ships, was destroyed.
And, the third messenger, sounded; and there fell, out of heaven, a great star, burning as a torch, and it fell upon the third of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters.
And, the name of the star, is called Wormwood; and the third of the waters became wormwood, and many of the men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
And, the fourth messenger, sounded; and the third of the sun was smitten, and the third of the moon, and the third of the stars,—in order that the third of them might be darkened, and the day might not shine for the third of it, and the night, in like manner.
And I saw, and I heard one eagle, flying in mid-heaven, saying with a loud voice—Woe! woe! woe! unto them that are dwelling upon the earth, by reason of the remaining voices of the trumpet, of the three messengers who are about to sound.