Now the feast of unleavened bread was coming near, which is called Passover.
And the chief priests and the scholars sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people.
And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve.
And having departed, he conversed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him to them.
And they were glad, and agreed together to give him silver.
And he consented and sought opportunity to betray him to them apart from the multitude.
And the day of unleavened bread came during which it was necessary to kill the Passover.
And he sent Peter and John, saying, After departing, prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat.
And they said to him, Where do thou want that we should prepare?
And he said to them, Behold, having entered into the city, a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him into the house where he enters.
And ye shall say to the house-ruler, The teacher says to thee, Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room furnished. Prepare there.
And having gone, they found just as he said to them, and they prepared the Passover.
And when the hour came, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him.
And he said to them, With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before my suffering.
For I say to you, that I will eat of it no more, no, not till when it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And having taken a cup, having expressed thanks, he said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves.
For I say to you, that I will, no, not drink from the fruit of the grapevine till when the kingdom of God comes.
And after taking bread, having expressed thanks, he broke in pieces, and gave to them, saying, This is my body that is given for you. Do ye this in my memory.
Likewise also the cup after dining, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood being shed for you.
Nevertheless behold, the hand of the man who betrays me is with me on the table.
And the Son of man indeed goes according to that which has been determined, nevertheless woe to that man through whom he is betrayed!
And they began to question among themselves who then of them would be going do this thing.
And also a dispute develop among them, which of them is considered to be greater.
And he said to them, The kings of the Gentiles have dominion over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called Benefactors.
But ye are not this way. Rather, the greater among you, shall become as the newer, and he who leads, as he who serves.
For who ranks higher, he who sits dining, or he who serves? Is it not he who sits dining? But I am in the midst of you as he who serves.
But ye are those who have continued with me in my trials.
And I appoint to you, just as my Father appointed to me a kingdom,
that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you to sift you as wheat,
but I prayed for thee, so that thy faith may not fail. And thou, when thou have returned, strengthen thy brothers.
And he said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both to prison and to death.
And he said, I say to thee, Peter, a cock will, no, not sound today, before thou will thrice deny that thou know me.
And he said to them, When I sent you without bag and pouch and shoes, did ye lack anything? And they said, Nothing.
Then he said to them, But now, he who has a bag, let him take it, and likewise a pouch. And he who has no sword, let him sell his cloak and buy.
For I say to you, that this that is written is still necessary to be completed in me, And he was counted with lawless men, for these things about me also have fulfillment.
And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said to them, It is enough.
And having come out, he proceeded according to his habit to the mount of Olives, and his disciples also followed him.
And when he came at the place, he said to them, Pray ye not to enter into temptation.
And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's throw. And he knelt down and prayed,
saying, Father, if thou want, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless not my will, but thine be done.
And an agent from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him.
And having become in agony he prayed more intensely, and his sweat became like drops of blood falling down to the ground.
And after rising up from his prayer, having come to the disciples, he found them sleeping from sorrow.
And said to them, Why sleep ye? Having risen, pray that ye may not enter into temptation.
While he yet spoke, behold, a multitude, and the man called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them. And he came near to Jesus to kiss him.
But Jesus said to him, Judas, thou betray the Son of man with a kiss?
And when those who were around him saw what would be, they said, Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
And a certain one of them struck the bondman of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.
But having answered, Jesus said, Allow ye as far as this. And having touched his ear, he healed him.
And Jesus said to the chief priests, and captains of the temple, and elders, who came to him, Have ye come out, as against a robber, with swords and clubs?
When I was with you daily in the temple, ye did not stretch forth hands against me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
And having seized him, they led him, and brought him into the high priest's house. But Peter followed from afar.
And having kindled a fire in the midst of the court, and having sat down together, Peter sat in the midst of them.
But a certain servant girl having seen him sitting near the light, and having looked intently upon him, she said, This man was also with him.
But he denied him, saying, Woman, I do not know him.
And after a little while, another man having see him, said, Thou also are from them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.
And about one hour having passed, some other man insisted, saying, In truth this man was also with him, for he is also a Galilean.
And Peter said, Man, I do not know what thou are saying. And immediately, while he still spoke, a cock sounded.
And having turned, the Lord looked on Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he said to him, Before a cock sounds thou will deny me thrice.
And having gone outside, Peter wept bitterly.
And the men who held Jesus mocked him, while striking him.
And having covered him, they struck his face, and demanded him, saying, Prophesy! Who is he who struck thee?
And they spoke many other things against him, railing against him.
And when it became day, the eldership of the people, the chief priests, and the scholars, came together, and led him into their council, saying,
If thou are the Christ, tell us. And he said to them, If I tell you, ye will not believe,
and if I also ask, ye will, no, not answer nor release.
From henceforth the Son of man will be sitting at the right hand of the power of God.
And they all said, Therefore thou are the Son of God? And he said to them, Ye say that I am.
And they said, What further need have we of testimony? For we have heard from his mouth.