And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face against Gog, the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him.
And say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
And I will turn you back and put hooks into your jaws. And I will bring you and all your army out: horses and horsemen, all of them clothed most perfectly; a great assembly with buckler and shield, all of them swordsmen.
Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya are with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
Gomer and all his bands; the house of Togarmah from the recesses of the north, and all his bands; many peoples are with you.
Be prepared; yea, prepared for yourself, you and all your assembly that are assembled to you, and be a guard to them.
After many days you shall be visited. In the after years you shall come into the land turned back from the sword, gathered out of many peoples, on the mountains of Israel which have been for a continual waste. But he has been brought out of the peoples, and they shall dwell securely, all of them.
And you shall go up, you shall come like a storm; you shall be like a cloud to cover the land, you and all your bands, and many peoples with you.
So says the Lord Jehovah: And it shall be in that day, words shall come up into your heart, and you shall devise an evil plan.
And you shall say, I will go up to the land of open spaces. I will go to those at ease, who live securely, all of them living with no walls, and there are no bars and gates to them,
in order to spoil a spoil, and to steal a prize, to turn your hand on the inhabited waste places, and on the people gathered out of the nations, who have gotten livestock and goods, who dwell in the center of the earth.
Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish, and all its young lions, shall say to you, Have you come to spoil a spoil? Have you gathered your assembly to steal a prize, to carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods, to spoil a great spoil?
So prophesy, son of man, and say to Gog, So says the Lord Jehovah: Shall you not know in that day when My people Israel dwells securely?
And you shall come from your place out of the recesses of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great assembly, a mighty army.
And you shall come up on My people Israel like a cloud, to cover the land. It shall be in the after days, and I will bring you against My land so that the nations may know Me, when I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes, Gog.
So says the Lord Jehovah: Are you he of whom I have spoken in former days by the hand of My servants, the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days and years, to bring you against them?
And it shall be on that day, when Gog comes against the land of Israel, declares the Lord Jehovah, My fury shall come up in My face.
And in My jealousy, in the fire of My wrath, I have spoken. Surely, in that day there shall be a great quaking in the land of Israel.
And the fish of the sea, and the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep on the earth, and all men on the face of the earth, shall quake at My face. And the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.
And I shall call a sword against him on all My mountains, declares the Lord Jehovah. Each man's sword shall be against his brother.
And I will judge him with a plague and with blood, and an overflowing shower, and hailstones. I will rain fire and brimstone on him, and on his bands, and on the many peoples who are with him.
And I will magnify Myself and sanctify Myself. And I will be known in the eyes of the many nations, and they shall know that I am Jehovah.