FOR this reason we ought to attend more diligently to the things which have been heard, lest by any means we let them flow by us.
For if the discourse spoken by angels was confirmed, and every transgression and disobedience received a just punishment as its due,
how shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation, which, commencing at the beginning to be spoken by the Lord, was confirmed unto us by those who had heard him;
God superadding his testimony with them, by signs, and wonders, and various miracles, and gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will?
For he hath not subjected the future world, of which we are speaking, to the angels.
But one in a certain passage testifieth, saying, “What is man, that thou rememberest him, or a son of man, that thou regardest him?”
“Thou hast made him for a little while lower than angels, thou hast crowned him with glory and honour, and hast placed him over the works of thy hands:
thou hast subjected all things under his feet.” Now in subjecting all things to him, he left nothing unsubjected to him; but at present we see not yet all things subjected to him.
But we see Jesus for a little while made lower than angels, by the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour, that, by the grace of God, he might taste of death for every one.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to perfect the Author of their salvation by sufferings.
For both he that sanctifies, and they who are sanctified, are all of one. For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
saying, “I will declare thy name to my brethren, in the midst of the church I will sing hymns to thee.”
And again, “I will place my confidence in him.” And again, “Behold! Here am I, and the children which God hath given me.”
Seeing therefore that the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he also himself, in exact resemblance, partook of the same, that by death he might destroy him who held the power of death, that is, the devil;
and deliver those, even as many as through their whole life were subjects of bondage to the fear of death.
For he verily took not on him the angelic nature, but assumed that of the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore he ought in all things to be made like to his brethren, in order to become a merciful and faithful high-priest in those things which relate to God, to make a propitiation for the sins of the people:
for inasmuch as he hath himself suffered, having been tempted, he is able to succour those who are tempted.