Woe to thee who destroys, and thou were not destroyed, and deal treacherously, and they did not deal treacherously with thee! When thou have ceased to destroy, thou shall be destroyed, and when thou have made an end of dealing treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee.
O Jehovah, be gracious to us, we have waited for thee. Be thou our arm every morning, also our salvation in the time of trouble.
At the noise of the tumult the peoples have fled. At the lifting up of thyself the nations are scattered.
And your spoil shall be gathered as the caterpillar gathers. As locusts leap, men shall leap upon it.
Jehovah is exalted, for he dwells on high. He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
And there shall be stability in thy times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge. The fear of Jehovah is thy treasure.
Behold, their valiant ones cry outside. The ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.
The highways lie waste. The wayfaring man ceases. The enemy has broken the covenant. He has despised the cities. He does not regard man.
The land mourns and languishes. Lebanon is confounded and withers away. Sharon is like a desert, and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
Now I will arise, says Jehovah. Now I will lift up myself. Now I will be exalted.
Ye shall conceive chaff. Ye shall bring forth stubble. Your breath is a fire that shall devour you.
And the peoples shall be as the burnings of lime, as thorns cut down that are burned in the fire.
Hear, ye who are far off, what I have done, and ye who are near, acknowledge my might.
The sinners in Zion are afraid. Trembling has seized the profane. Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?
He who walks righteously, and speaks uprightly. He who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes away his hands from taking a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of blood, and shuts his eyes from looking upon evil.
He shall dwell on high. His place of defense shall be the munitions of rocks. His bread shall be given. His waters shall be sure.
Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty. They shall behold a land that reaches afar.
Thy heart shall muse on the terror. Where is he who counted? Where is he who weighed the tribute? Where is he who counted the towers?
Thou shall not see the fierce people, a people of a deep speech that thou cannot comprehend, of a strange tongue that thou cannot understand.
Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities. Thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be removed. The stakes of which shall never be plucked up, nor shall any of the cords of it be broken.
But Jehovah will be with us there in majesty. A place of broad rivers and streams, in which shall go no galley with oars, nor shall a gallant ship pass thereby.
For Jehovah is our judge. Jehovah is our lawgiver. Jehovah is our king, he will save us.
Thy tacklings are loosed. They could not strengthen the foot of their mast. They could not spread the sail. Then the prey of a great spoil was divided. The lame took the prey.
And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick. The people who dwell in it shall be forgiven their iniquity.