Dare any of you, having a matter against the other, go to law before the unrighteous and not before the sanctified?
Or know ye not that the sanctified will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are ye unworthy of very small legal disputes?
Know ye not that we will judge agents? Then why not mundane things?
Indeed therefore whenever ye have mundane legal disputes, men who are disdained by the church, these ye seat to judge.
I speak shame about you. So there is not among you not even one wise man who will be able to arbitrate between his brother?
But brother goes to law against brother, and this before unbelievers?
Now therefore it is indeed altogether a defeat for you because ye have legal disputes against yourselves. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?
Instead ye do wrong, and defraud, and these things to brothers.
Or know ye not that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not led astray. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate men, nor homosexuals,
nor greedy men, nor thieves, nor drunkards, nor the slanderous, nor the predatory will inherit the kingdom of God.
And some of you were these things, but ye were washed, but ye were sanctified, but ye were made righteous in the name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God.
All things are lawful for me, but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under control by anything.
The foods are for the belly and the belly for foods, but God will abolish both this and these things. But the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
And God both raised up the Lord and will raise us up through his power.
Know ye not that your bodies are body-parts of Christ? Therefore, having taken the body-parts of the Christ, should I make them body-parts of a harlot? May it not happen!
Or know ye not that he who is joined to a harlot is one body? For, The two, he says, will be in one flesh.
But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
Flee fornication. Every sin, whatever a man may do, is outside the body, but he who fornicates sins against his own body.
Or know ye not that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit in you, which ye have from God? And ye are not your own,
for ye were bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and your spirit, which is of God.