A good name is better than precious perfume, and the day of one’s death than the day of his birth.
It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting; for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to heart.
Sorrow is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the song of fools.
For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of a fool. This also is vanity.
Surely the gain of oppression maketh a wise man foolish, and a gift corrupteth the understanding.
Better is the end of a thing than its beginning. Better is the patient in spirit than the proud in spirit.
Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry; for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.
Say not, "What is the cause that the former days were better than these?" For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this.
Wisdom is as good as an estate? yea, it hath an advantage over it for them that see the sun.
For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence. But knowledge hath the advantage. For wisdom giveth life to them that have it.
Consider the work of God! Who can make straight that which he hath made crooked?
In the day of prosperity be joyful; but look for a day of adversity! for this also, as well as the other, hath God appointed, to the end that a man should not find out any thing which shall be after him.
All this have I seen in my days of vanity. There are righteous men who perish in their righteousness, and there are wicked men who live long in their wickedness.
Be not righteous overmuch; neither make thyself over-wise! Why shouldest thou destroy thyself?
Be not overmuch wicked; neither be thou a fool! Why shouldst thou die before thy time?
It is good that thou shouldst take hold of this; yea, also, from that withdraw not thy hand. For he that feareth God shall escape all those things.
Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men who are in the city.
Truly there is not a righteous man upon the earth who doeth good and sinneth not.
Give no heed to all the words which are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee!
For many times thine own heart knoweth also that even thou thyself hast cursed others.
All this have I tried by wisdom. I said, "I will be wise;" but it was far from me.
That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out?
I applied my mind earnestly to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom and intelligence, and to know wickedness and folly, yea, foolishness and madness.
And I found more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands bands. He that pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be caught by her.
Behold, this have I found, saith the Preacher, putting one thing to another to find knowledge.
That which my soul hath hitherto sought, and I have not found, is this: a man among a thousand I have found, but a woman among a thousand have I not found.
Lo, this only have I found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many devices.