And the word of Yahweh came unto me, saying:
Thou therefore O son of man. Thus saith My Lord Yahweh, To the so of Israel, there is an end,- The end hath come upon the four skirts of the land.
Now is the end upon thee, Therefore will I send mine anger against thee, And judge thee according to thy ways,- And lay upon thee all thine abominations;
And mine eye shall not shield thee. Neither will I pity,—. For thy ways—upon thee, will I lay. And thine abominations in thy midst, shall be found, So shall ye know that, I, am Yahweh.
Thus saith My Lord Yahweh:A calamity, a sole calamity, lo! it hath come.
An end hath come, Come hath the end It hath roused itself up against thee,— Lo! it hath come.
The circle hath come round unto thee. O inhabitant of the land,- The time, hath come, The day of consternation, hath drawn near. And not the joyful shout of the mountains.
Now shortly, will I pour out mine indignation upon thee, And will bring to an end mine anger against thee, And will judge thee according to thy ways,- And will lay upon thee all thine abominations.
And mine eye shall not shield thee Neither will I have pity,— According to thy ways, unto thee will I render, And thine abominations, in thy midst shall be found, So shall ye know that I, Yahweh am smiting.
Lo! the day, Lo! it hath come, The circle, hath gone forth, The sceptre, hath blossomed, Insolence hath sprouted:
Violence hath risen up as a sceptre of lawlessness, —There are none of them And none of their multitude And none of their throngs And no lamentation over them.
The time hath come. The day hath arrived, The buyer, let him not rejoice, and The seller, let him not mourn,— For indignation, is against all her multitude.
For the seller, unto that which is to be sold, shall not return, though yet among the living, were their life, for the vision is against all her multitude. He shall not return, And, no man, by his punishment, shall strengthen, his life.
They have blown the trumpet, even to make All ready, Yet is there none going to the battle; For mine indignation is against all her multitude.
The sword without, and Pestilence and famine within,— He that is in the field by the sword, shall die, and He that is in the city famine or pestilence shall devour him;
While they who escape of them shall escape and become on the mountains as the doves of the valleys, all of them cooing,—each one in his punishment.
All hands shall be unnerved; and All knees shall be weak as water,
Therefore shall they gird themselves with sackcloth, And shuddering shall cover them,-And in all faces, shall be paleness, And in all their heads, baldness.
Their silver into the streets, shall they cast and Their gold for throwing away, shall serve, Their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of Yahweh, Their craving, shall they not satisfy, and Their belly, shall they not fill, For a stumbling-block, hath their iniquity become.
When, the beauty of his own ornament, he had, in majesty, placed, Then, the images, of their abominations Their detestable things, Made they therein,— For this cause have I delivered it up to them for removal;
Yea I will deliver it Into the hand of foreigners for a prey, And to the lawless ones of the earth for a spoil, And they will profane it;
And I will turn away my face from them, And they will profane my cherished place,—Yea there will enter it violent men Who will profane it.
Prepare thou a chain,— For, the land, is full of the crime of bloodshed, And, the city, is full of violence.
So then I will bring in the wicked ones of the nations, And they shall take possession of their houses,—And I will cause to cease the pomp of the strong ones, And their holy places shall be profaned.
Destruction, hath entered,- And they shall seek welfare and there be none.
Disaster upon disaster, shall come, And report after report shall arise, Therefore shall they seek a vision from prophet, And law shall perish from priest. And counsel from elders.
The king, shall mourn and, The chief, shall clothe himself with astonishment, and, the hands of the people of the land, shall be wrung in anguish,— After their own way, will I deal with them and, With their own sentences, will I sentence them, And they shall know that, I, am Yahweh.