For the law, having in a shadow of the destined good things, not the very image of the things, they can never, with the same sacrifices which year by year they offer evermore, make them who approach, perfect;
Else would they not, in that case, have ceased being offered, by reason of those rendering the divine service having no further conscience at all of sins, being once for all purified?
But, in them, is a recalling to mind of sins, year by year,
For it is impossible for blood of bulls and goats to be taking away sins.
Wherefore, coming into the world, he saith: Sacrifice and offering, thou willedst not, but, a body, hast thou fitted for me,—
In whole-burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sins, thou didst not delight:
Then, said I—Lo! I am come,—in the heading of the scroll, it is written concerning me,—to do, O God, thy will.
Higher up, saying—Sacrifices, and offerings, and whole-burnt-offerings, and sacrifices for sins, thou willedst not, neither delightedst in,—the which, according to the law, are offered,
Then, hath he said—Lo! I am come! to do, thy will:—he taketh away the first, that, the second, he may establish:
By which will, we have been made holy, through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ, once for all.
And, every priest, indeed, standeth daily publicly ministering, and the same sacrifices ofttimes offering, the which never can clear away sins;
But this priest, having offered one sacrifice for sins evermore, sat down on the right hand of God:
As for the rest, waiting—until his foes be made his footstool;
For, by one offering, hath he perfected for evermore, them who are being made holy.
But even the Holy Spirit beareth us witness; for, after having said—
This is the covenant which I will covenant unto them after these days, saith the Lord,—Giving my laws upon their hearts, upon their understandings also, will I inscribe them,
[He] also [saith] —of their sins, and of their lawlessnesses, I will in nowise be mindful any more.
But, wherever a remission of these is, there is, no further, offering, for sins.
Having therefore, brethren, freedom of speech for the entrance through the Holy place, by the blood of Jesus,
Which entrance he hath consecrated for us, as a way recent and living, through the veil, that is, his flesh,—
And having a great priest over the house of God,
Let us approach with a genuine heart, in full assurance of faith, having been sprinkled, as to our hearts, from an evil conscience, and bathed, as to our bodies, with pure water;
Let us hold fast the confession of the hope without wavering,—for, faithful, is he that hath promised;
And let us attentively consider one another, to provoke unto love and noble works,—
Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, according to the custom of some, but exhorting, and by so much the more as this, by as much as ye behold, the day, drawing near.
For, if, by choice, we be sinning, after the receiving of the full-knowledge of the truth, no longer, for sins, is there left over, a sacrifice,
But some fearful reception of judgment and fiery jealousy, about to devour the opposers.
Any one having set aside a law of Moses, apart from compassions, upon [the testimony of] two or three witnesses, dieth:
Of how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall he be accounted worthy, who hath trampled underfoot the Son of God, and, the blood of the covenant, hath esteemed, a profane thing, by which he had been made holy, and, unto the Spirit of favour, hath offered wanton insult?
For we know him that hath said—To me, belongeth avenging, I, will recompense; and again—The Lord will judge his people.
A fearful thing [it is] to fall into the hands of a Living God!
But be calling to mind the former days, in which, once ye were illuminated, a great combat of sufferings, ye endured;—
Partly, indeed, because, both with reproaches and tribulations, ye were being made a spectacle, but, partly, because, into fellowship with them who were so involved, ye were brought;—
For, even with them who were in bonds, ye sympathised, and, unto the seizure of your goods, with joy, ye bade welcome,—knowing that ye have yourselves, for a better possession and an abiding.
Do not, then, cast away your freedom of speech,—the which hath a great recompense.
For, of endurance, ye have need, in order that, the will of God having done, Ye may bear away, the promise.
For, yet a little while, how short! how short! The Coming One will be here, and will not tarry;
But, my righteous one, by faith, shall live, and, if he draw back, my soul delighteth not in him.
We, however, are not of a drawing back unto destruction, but, of faith, unto an acquisition of life.