My little children, I write these things to you so that you do not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
And He is the propitiation concerning our sins, and not concerning ours only, but also concerning the sins of all the world.
And by this we know that we have known Him, if we keep His commandments.
He who says, I have known Him, and does not keep His commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.
But whoever keeps His word, truly in this one the love of God is perfected. By this we know that we are in Him.
He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk even as He walked.
Brothers, I do not write a new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning.
Again, I write a new commandment to you, which thing is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true Light now shines.
He who says he is in the light and hates his brother is in darkness until now.
He who loves his brother rests in the light, and there is no offense in him.
But he who hates his brother is in darkness, and walks in darkness, and does not know where he is going, because darkness has blinded his eyes.
I write to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for His name's sake.
I write to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, little children, because you have known the Father.
I write to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
Do not love the world, nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him,
because all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.
And the world passes away, and the lust of it, but he who does the will of God abides forever.
Little children, it is the last time. And just as you have heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have risen up, from which we know that it is the last hour.
They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they were of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out so that it might be revealed that they were not all of us.
But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you know all things.
I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and know that no lie is of the truth.
Who is a liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? He who denies the Father and the Son is anti-christ.
Everyone who denies the Son neither has the Father. The one confessing the Son also has the Father.
Therefore what you heard from the beginning, let it abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning remains in you, you will abide in both the Son and in the Father.
And this is the promise that He has promised us: everlasting life.
These things I have written to you concerning those leading you astray.
But the anointing which you received from Him abides in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. But as His anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true and no lie, and as He has taught you, abide in Him.
And now, little children, abide in Him, so that when He is revealed, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before Him in His coming.
If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who does righteousness has been born of Him.