The wicked flee when none pursueth: but the righteous are bolde as a lyon.
For the transgression of the land there are many princes thereof: but by a man of vnderstanding and knowledge a realme likewise endureth long.
A poore man, if he oppresse the poore, is like a raging raine, that leaueth no foode.
They that forsake the Law, prayse the wicked: but they that keepe the Law, set themselues against them.
Wicked men vnderstand not iudgemnt: but they that seeke the Lord vnderstand all things.
Better is the poore that walketh in his vprightnesse, then hee that peruerteth his wayes, though he be riche.
He that keepeth the Law, is a childe of vnderstanding: but hee that feedeth the gluttons, shameth his father.
He that increaseth his riches by vsurie and interest, gathereth them for him that will be mercifull vnto the poore.
He that turneth away his eare from hearing the Law, euen his prayer shalbe abominable.
He that causeth the righteous to go astray by an euill way, shall fall into his owne pit, and the vpright shall inherite good things.
The riche man is wise in his owne conceite: but the poore that hath vnderstanding, can trie him.
When righteous men reioyce, there is great glory: but when the wicked come vp, the man is tried.
He that hideth his sinnes, shall not prosper: but he that confesseth, and forsaketh them, shall haue mercy.
Blessed is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart, shall fall into euill.
As a roaring lyon, and an hungry beare, so is a wicked ruler ouer the poore people.
A prince destitute of vnderstanding, is also a great oppressour: but hee that hateth couetousnes, shall prolong his dayes.
A man that doeth violence against the blood of a person, shall flee vnto the graue, and they shall not stay him.
He that walketh vprightly, shalbe saued: but he that is froward in his wayes, shall once fall.
He that tilleth his land, shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth the idle, shall be filled with pouertie.
A faythfull man shall abound in blessings, and he that maketh haste to be riche, shall not be innocent.
To haue respect of persons is not good: for that man will transgresse for a piece of bread.
A man with a wicked eye hasteth to riches, and knoweth not, that pouertie shall come vpon him.
He that rebuketh a man, shall finde more fauour at length, then he that flattereth with his tongue.
Hee that robbeth his father and mother, and sayth, It is no transgression, is the companion of a man that destroyeth.
He that is of a proude heart, stirreth vp strife: but he that trusteth in the Lord, shall be fatte.
Hee that trusteth in his owne heart, is a foole: but he that walketh in wisdome, shall be deliuered.
He that giueth vnto the poore, shall not lacke: but he that hideth his eyes, shall haue many curses.
When the wicked rise vp, men hide them selues: but when they perish, ye righteous increase.