I have spoken these things to you so that you should not be offended.
They shall put you out of the synagogue. But an hour is coming that everyone who kills you will think that he bears God service.
And they will do these things to you because they have not known the Father nor Me.
But I have told you these things so that when the hour shall come you may remember that I told you of them. And I did not say these things to you at the beginning because I was with you.
But now I go to Him who sent Me, and none of you asks Me, Where do You go?
But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
But I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send Him to you.
And when that One comes, He will convict the world concerning sin, and concerning righteousness, and concerning judgment.
Concerning sin, because they do not believe on Me;
concerning righteousness, because I go to My Father and you see Me no more;
concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.
I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
However, when He, the Spirit of Truth, has come, He will guide you into all truth. For He shall not speak of Himself, but whatever He hears, He shall speak. And He will announce to you things to come.
He will glorify Me, for He will receive of Mine and will announce it to you.
All things that the Father has are Mine. Therefore I said that He will take of Mine and will announce it to you.
A little while and you will not see Me; and again a little while, and you will see Me, because I go to the Father.
Then His disciples said to one another, What is this that He says to us, A little while and you will not see Me, and again a little and you will see Me? And, Because I go to the Father?
Therefore they said, What is this that He says, A little while? We do not know what He is saying.
Then Jesus knew that they desired to ask Him, and said to them, Do you seek answers with one another concerning this, because I said, A little while and you shall not see Me; and again a little while, and you shall see Me?
Truly, truly, I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. And you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
The woman has grief when she bears, because her hour has come. But when she brings forth the child, she no longer remembers the anguish, because of the joy that a man is born into the world.
And therefore you now have sorrow. But I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you.
And in that day you shall ask Me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, Whatever you shall ask the Father in My name, He will give you.
Before now you have asked nothing in My name; ask and you shall receive, that your joy may be full.
I have spoken these things to you in parables, but the time is coming when I shall no more speak to you in parables, but I will show you plainly of the Father.
At that day you will ask in My name; and I do not say to you that I will pray to the Father for you,
for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me and have believed that I came out from God.
I came forth from the Father, and have come into the world. Again I leave the world and go to the Father.
The disciples said to Him, Lo, now You speak plainly and speak no parable.
Now we know that You know all things and do not need that anyone should ask You. By this we believe that You have come forth from God.
Jesus answered them, Do you now believe?
Behold, the hour comes, yea, has now come, that you will be scattered, each man to his own things, and you will leave Me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with Me.
I have spoken these things to you so that you might have peace in Me. In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world.