Then looked I and lo! in the expanse which was over the head of the cherubim as a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne, appeared over them.
Then said he unto the man clothed in linen—then said he Go in between the whirling wheels, even under the cherub, and fill both thy hands with live coals of fire from between the cherubim, and throw over the city. So he went in before mine eyes.
Now the cherubim were standing on the right side of the house when the man went in,—and, the, cloud filled the inner court,
Then arose the glory of Yahweh from off the cherub, unto the threshold of the house,—and the house was filled with the cloud, and the, court, was filled with the brightness of the glory of Yahweh.
And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard, as far as the outer court,—like the voice of the Almighty GOD when he speaketh,
So then it came to pass— when he commanded the man clothed with linen, saying, Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim, then went he in and stood beside the wheel.
And the cherub put forth his hand from between the cherubim unto the fire that was between the cherubim, and took up thereof and gave into the hands of him who was clothed with linen,—who took [it] and went forth,
Now the cherubim appeared to have. the likeness of the hand of a man, under their wings.
Then looked I. and lo! four wheels by the cherubim—one wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another cherub,—and the appearance of the wheels was to look upon like a Tarshish stone;
and as for their appearance, one likeness, had they four,-as might be a wheel in the midst of a wheel.
When they went, upon their four sides, they went, they turned not when they went, for to the place whithersoever the head turned, after it, they went, they turned not when they went.
And all their flesh, and their back, and their hands and their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes round about, even their wheels which they four had
To the wheels—to them, was made the cry— O whirling wheel! in mine ears.
And four faces had each one,—the first face, was the face of a cherub, and, the second face, was the face of a man and the third was the face of a lion. and the fourth, was the face of an eagle.
Then arose the cherubim,—the same, was the living one, which I had seen by the river Chebar.
When the cherubim went, then went the wheels beside them,—and when the cherubim lifted up their wings, to arise from off the earth, the wheels themselves turned not from beside them;
when they stood, these stood, and when they arose, these arose with them,—for, the spirit of the living one, was in them.
And when the glory of Yahweh went forth from off the threshold of the house,—and stood over the cherubim,
then the cherubim uplifted their wings and arose from the earth before mine eyes as they went forth, the wheels also in unison with them,—and it stood at the opening of the gate of the house of Yahweh that was toward the east, with the glory of the God of Israel over them, above.
The same, was the living one which I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar,- then knew I that cherubim, they were.
Four faces severally, had each one, and four wings, had each one,—and the likeness of the hands of a man, was under their wings.
And as for the likeness of their faces, They were the faces which I saw by the river Chebar, their appearances and themselves— every one straight before him, did they go.