I will stand on my guard and set myself on the tower, and watch to see what He will say against me, and what I shall return on my rebuke.
And Jehovah answered me and said, Write the vision and engrave it on the tablets, that he who reads it may run.
For the vision is still for the appointed time, but it breathes to the end, and it does not lie. Though it delays, wait for it, because it will surely come; it will not tarry.
Behold, the soul of him is puffed up and is not upright; but the just shall live by his faith.
And also, wine indeed betrays a proud man, and he is not content; who widens his soul like Sheol. And he is like death, and is not satisfied, but gathers all the nations to himself, and collects all the peoples to himself.
Shall not all of these lift up a parable against him. and a mocking riddle to him, and say, Woe to him who increases what is not his! How long, then, shall he load the pledges on himself?
Shall not those who strike you rise up suddenly, and those who shake you be aroused, and you become a prize to him?
Because you have plundered many nations, all the rest of the people shall plunder you, because of the blood of men and the violence of the land, and the city, and all those dwelling in it.
Woe to him who robs evil booty for his house, to set his nest on high, to be delivered from the hand of evil!
You have advised shame for your house, to make an end of many peoples, and are sinning in your soul.
For the stone shall cry out from the wall, and the beam shall answer it from the wood.
Woe to him who builds a town with blood and establishes a city by iniquity!
Behold, is it not for Jehovah of hosts that the people labor only for fire? Yea, nations weary themselves only for vanity.
For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of Jehovah, as the waters cover the sea.
Woe to him who causes his friend to drink, pouring out your wineskin, and also making him drunk, so as to look upon their nakedness!
You are filled with shame instead of glory; you drink also, and will be seen as uncircumcised. The cup of the right hand of Jehovah shall turn on you, and disgrace shall be your glory.
For the violence of Lebanon shall cover you, and the ruin of beasts shall terrify them because of the blood of men and the violence of the land, the city, and all those dwelling in it.
What does an image profit, for its maker has carved it; a molten image, and a teacher of falsehood? For does the maker trust in his work on it, to make mute idols?
Woe to him who says to the wood, Awake! To a mute stone, Rise up, it shall teach! Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, but no breath is in its midst.
But Jehovah is in His holy temple; let all the earth be silent before Him.