And at that time there was a great persecution against the church that was in Jerusalem; and they were all dispersed throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
But devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him.
But Saul attempted to destroy the church; entering every house, and dragging men and women, he delivered them up to prison.
Then they that were dispersed went everywhere preaching the word.
And Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached the Christ to them.
And the multitudes with one mind gave heed to the things which were spoken by Philip, when they heard, and saw the signs which he did.
For unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them, and many paralytics and lame persons were cured.
And there was great joy in that city.
But there was a certain man, named Simon, who had, before this time, been practicing magic in the city, and astonishing the people of Samaria, saying that he was some great one;
to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying: This man is the great power of God.
And they gave heed to him because he had, for a long time, astonished them with his magic arts.
But when they believed Philip, who preached the good news concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were immersed, both men and women.
And Simon himself also believed; and after he was immersed, he continued with Philip; and, seeing the mighty deeds and the signs which were done, he was astonished.
Now when the apostles, who were in Jerusalem, heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John;
who, when they had gone down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Spirit.
For he had not yet fallen on any of them; only they had been immersed into the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
And when Simon saw that the Holy Spirit was given through the laying on of the hands of the apostles, he offered them money,
saying: Give me, also, this authority, that whoever I shall lay my hands on, may receive the Holy Spirit.
But Peter said to him: Your money perish with you, because you thought that the gift of God might be purchased with money.
You have neither part nor share in this matter; for your heart is not right in the sight of God.
Repent, therefore, of this your wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the purpose of your heart may be forgiven you.
For I perceive that you are in the gall of bitterness, and in the bond of iniquity.
But Simon answered and said: Pray you both to the Lord for me, that none of the things which you have spoken come upon me.
Then, when they had given their testimony, and preached the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
And an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying: Arise, and go toward the south, to the road that leads from Jerusalem to Gaza; this is desert.
And he arose and went. And behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, the queen of the Ethiopians, who had charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem to worship,
was returning, and, sitting in his chariot, read the prophet Isaiah.
And the Spirit said to Philip: Go forward and join yourself to this chariot.
And Philip ran forward, and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah; and he said: Do you understand what you are reading?
He answered: How can I, unless some one instruct me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him.
The passage of the scripture which he was reading, was this: As a sheep for the slaughter was he led; and as a lamb before his shearer is dumb, so opened he not his mouth
in his humiliation. The sentence against him was taken away; but who shall describe the men of his generation? For his life was taken from the earth.
And the eunuch answered Philip, and said: I pray you, of whom speaks the prophet this? Of himself, or of some other man?
And Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached to him Jesus.
And as they went along the road, they came to some water; and the eunuch said: See, here is water; what hinders me from being immersed?

And he commanded the chariot to stand still; and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he immersed him.
And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip; and the eunuch saw him no more, for he went on his way rejoicing.
But Philip was found at Azotus, and, passing through, he preached the gospel in all the cities, till he came to Cæsarea