And Naaman the commander of the army of the king of Syria was a great and exalted man before his lord, for Jehovah had given deliverance to Syria by him. And he was a brave warrior, but leprous.
And the Syrians had gone out in bands, and they seized from the land of Israel a little girl. And she was before Naaman's wife.
And she said to her mistress, Oh that my lord were before the prophet who is in Samaria! Then he would recover him from his leprosy.
And one went in and told his lord, saying, This and this she said, the girl who is from the land of Israel.
And the king of Syria said, Go, go in, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. And he went and took in his hand ten talents of silver, and six thousand of gold, and ten changes of garments.
And he came to the king of Israel with the letter, saying, And now when this letter comes to you, behold, I have sent to you my servant Naaman. And you shall recover him from his leprosy.
And it happened, when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his garments and said, Am I God, to kill and to keep alive, that this one is sending to me to recover a man from his leprosy? For consider now, and see for he is coiling himself toward me.
And it happened, when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his garments, he sent to the king, saying, Why have you torn your garments? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.
And Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha.
And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, Go, and you shall wash seven times in the Jordan. And your flesh shall return to you, and you shall he clean.
And Naaman was angry, and went on, and said, Behold, I said, He will certainly come out to me and will stand and call on the name of Jehovah his God, and will wave his hand over the place, and recover the leper.
Are not Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Shall I not wash in them and he clean? And he turned and went on in fury.
And his servants came near and spoke to him, and said, My father, if the prophet had spoken a great thing to you would you not do it ? How much rather then when he says to you, Wash, and be clean?
And he went down and dipped in the Jordan seven times, according to the word of the man of God. And his flesh returned like the flesh of a little boy, and he was clean.
And he went back to the man of God, he and all his company, and came in and stood before him, and said, Behold, now I know that there is not a God in all the earth except in Israel. And now, please take a blessing from your servant.
And he said, As Jehovah lives, before whom I stand, I shall not take. And he pressed on him to take, but he refused.
And Naaman said, If not, please let a couple of mules' burden of earth be given to your servant. For your servant shall not make any more burnt offering and sacrifice to other gods only to Jehovah.
May Jehovah pardon your servant for this thing, when my lord goes to the house of Rimmon to bow there, and he is supported by my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon; when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, may Jehovah pardon your servant in this thing.
And he said to him, Go in peace. And he went away a little way from him.
And Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold, my lord has spared this Syrian, Naaman, not to receive from his hand that which he has brought As Jehovah lives, surely I will run after him, then I shall take something from him.
And Gehazi ran after Naaman. And Naaman saw one running after him, and got down from the chariot to meet him, and said, Peace?
And he said, Peace. My lord has sent me, saying, Behold this now, two young men from the hills of Ephraim have come to me, of the sons of the prophets. Please give to them a talent of silver, and two changes of garments.
And Naaman said, Be pleased, take two talents. And he forced these on him, and bound two talents of silver and two purses, and two changes of garments, and gave to two of his young men, and they carried before him.
And he came into the hill, and took out of their hand, and put away in the house, and sent away the men. And they went.
And he went in and stood by his lord. And Elisha said to him, Where from Gehazi? And he said, Your servant did not go here or there.
And he said to him. Did not my heart go out when the man turned from his chariot to meet you. Is it a time to take silver, and to take garments and olives, and vineyards, and flock, and herd, and male slaves, and slave-girls?
Yea, the leprosy of Naaman shall cling to you, and to your seed forever. And he went out from him as leprous as snow.