And on the first of the sabbaths, while still very early, they came to the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.
But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb.
And going in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And as they were much perplexed about it, it happened that, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments.
And as they were afraid, and bowed their faces down to the earth, they said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead?
He is not here, but has risen. Remember how He spoke to you when He was still in Galilee,
saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and the third day rise again?
And they remembered His words
and returned from the tomb and told all these things to the Eleven and to the rest.
It was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and the rest with them, who told these things to the apostles.
And their words seemed to them like foolishness, and they did not believe them.
And Peter arose and ran to the tomb, and stooping down he saw the linens lying alone. And he went away wondering to himself at what had happened.
And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, it being about sixty stadia from Jerusalem.
And they talked to each other of all these things which had happened.
And while they talked and reasoned, it happened that Jesus Himself drew near and went with them.
But their eyes were held so that they could not know Him.
And He said to them, What words are these that you have with one another as you walk, and are so sad.
And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered and said to Him, Are you only a stranger in Jerusalem and have not known the things which have occurred there in these days?
And He said to them, What things? And they said to Him, The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a man, prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people,
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered Him to the judgement of death, and have crucified Him.
But we had trusted that He was the One who was about to redeem Israel. And besides all this, today is the third day since these things were done.
Yes, and also some of our women astounded us, having been early at the tomb;
and when they did not find His body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that He was alive.
And some of those with us went to the tomb and found it even as the women had said. But they did not see Him.
And He said to them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all things that the prophets spoke!
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into His glory?
And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, He expounded to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself.
And they drew near the village where they were going. And He appeared to be going further.
But they constrained Him, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is far spent. And He went in to stay with them.
And it happened as He reclined with them, taking the loaf, He blessed it, and breaking it, He gave to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew Him. And He became invisible to them.
And they said to one another, Did not our heart burn within us while He talked with us by the way and while He opened the Scriptures to us?
And they rose up the same hour and returned to Jerusalem and found assembled the Eleven and those with them.
And they said, the Lord has indeed risen, and has appeared to Simon.
And they told what things had happened in the way, and how He had been known by them in breaking of the loaf.
And as they spoke this, Jesus Himself stood in their midst, and said to them, Peace to you!
But they were terrified and filled with fear, for they thought they saw a spirit.
And He said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?
Behold My hands and My feet, that I am He! Handle Me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see Me have.
And when He had spoken this, He showed them His hands and feet.
And while they still did not believe for joy, and wondered, He said to them, Have you any food here?
And they handed to Him a piece of a broiled fish and of a honeycomb.
And He took it and ate before them.
And He said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and in the Prophets and in the Psalms about Me.
And He opened their mind to understand the Scriptures.
And He said to them, So it is written, and so it behoved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day,
and that repentance and remission of sins should be proclaimed in His name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
And you are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I send the promise of My father on you. But you sit in the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high.
And He led them out as far as Bethany. And lifting up His hands, He blessed them.
And it happened as He blessed them, He withdrew from them and was carried up into Heaven.
And worshiping Him, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy.
And they were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.