The king's heart is in the hand of the LORD as the rivers of water; He turns it wherever He will.
Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the LORD ponders the hearts.
To do justice and judgment is more pleasing to the LORD than sacrifice.
A high look, a proud heart, and the plowing of the wicked, is sin.
The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenty; but the thoughts of everyone who is hasty only to poverty.
The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to and fro by those who seek death.
The robbery of the wicked shall destroy them, because they refuse to do judgment.
The way of a guilty man is perverted; but the pure, his work is right.
It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop than with a quarrelsome woman and to share a house.
The soul of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor finds no favor in his eyes.
When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise; and when the wise is instructed, he receives knowledge.
The righteous wisely considers the house of the wicked; but God overthrows the wicked for their wickedness.
Whoever stops his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard.
A gift in secret quiets anger; and a bribe in the bosom quiets strong wrath.
It is joy to the just to do judgment, but ruin shall be to the workers of iniquity.
The man who wanders out of the way of understanding shall rest in the assembly of departed spirits.
He who loves pleasure shall be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil shall not be rich.
The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the transgressor for the upright.
It is better to dwell in the wilderness than with a quarrelsome and angry woman.
A desirable treasure and oil are in the home of the wise; but a foolish man swallows it up.
He who follows after righteousness and mercy finds life, righteousness, and honor.
A wise one scales the city of the mighty and brings down the strength of its hope.
Whoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from troubles.
Proud, haughty scorner is his name, he who deals in proud wrath.
The desire of the lazy man kills him, for his hands have refused to work.
He covets greedily all the day long; but the righteous gives and spares not.
The sacrifice of the wicked is hateful to God; how much more when he brings it with a wicked mind?
A false witness shall perish, but the man who hears speaks on and on.
A wicked man hardens his face, but the upright establishes his way.
There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the LORD.
The horse is prepared for the day of battle; but safety is from the LORD.