Then, fourteen years after, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and I took Titus also with me.
And I went up because of a revelation, and communicated to them the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to those who are of reputation, lest, by any means, I should run or had run in vain.
But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised.
I acted thus indeed on account of false brethren, stealthily brought in, who stole in to spy out our freedom, which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage,
to whom we yielded in submission, not even for an hour, in order that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.
But from those who were supposed to be something; (what they were is a matter of no importance to me: God does not accept the person of man;) they, indeed, who were supposed to be something, communicated no additional truth to me;
but; on the other hand, seeing that I was intrusted with the gospel of the uncircumcision, as Peter was with that of the circumcision,
(for he who gave efficiency to Peter, for the apostleship of the circumcision, gave efficiency to me also, as an apostle for the Gentiles,)
and knowing the grace that was given to me, James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles, but they to the circumcision,
requesting only that we would remember the poor, which same thing I have been diligent in doing.
But when Peter came to Antioch, I openly opposed him, because he had incurred blame.
For, before certain persons came from James, he ate with the Gentiles: but, when they had come, he withdrew, and separated himself, because he feared those who were of the circumcision.
And the other Jews, also, acted hypocritically with him, so that even Barnabas was led away by their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they did not walk uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter, before them all: If you, being a Jew, live after the manner of the Gentiles, and not after the manner of the Jews, why do you compel the Gen tiles to observe Jewish customs?
We, who are Jews by birth, and not Gentile sinners,
knowing that a man is not justified by works of law, but by faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed on Christ Jesus, that we may be justified by faith in Christ, and not by works of law: because, by works of law no flesh shall be justified.
But if, while we seek to be justified in Christ, we ourselves are also found sinners, is Christ, therefore, the minister of sin? It can not be.
For if I build again those things which I have destroyed, I make myself a transgressor.
For, through law, I have died to law, that I might live to God.
I have been crucified with Christ, yet I live; no longer I, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.
I do not set aside the grace of God: for if righteousness be through law, then Christ has died in vain.