Unto the end. For those who will be changed. To the sons of Korah, toward understanding. A Canticle for the Beloved.
My heart has uttered a good word. I speak of my works to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a scribe who writes quickly.
You are a brilliant form before the sons of men. Grace has been poured freely into your lips. Because of this, God has blessed you in eternity.
Fasten your sword to your thigh, O most powerful one.
With your splendor and your excellence extended, proceed prosperously, and reign for the sake of truth and meekness and justice, and so will your right hand lead you wondrously.
Your arrows are sharp; the people will fall under you, with the hearts of the enemies of the king.
Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of true aim.
You have loved justice and hated iniquity. Because of this, God, your God, has anointed you, before your co-heirs, with the oil of gladness.
Myrrh and balsam and cinnamon perfume your garments, from the houses of ivory. From these, they have delighted you:
the daughters of kings in your honor. The queen assisted at your right hand, in clothing of gold, encircled with diversity.
Listen, daughter, and see, and incline your ear. And forget your people and your father’s house.
And the king will desire your beauty. For he is the Lord your God, and they will adore him.
And the daughters of Tyre will entreat your countenance with gifts: all the rich men of the people.
All the glory of the daughter of its king is inside, in golden fringes,
clothed all around with diversities. After her, virgins will be led to the king. Her neighbors will be brought to you.
They will be brought with gladness and exultation. They will be led into the temple of the king.
For your fathers, sons have been born to you. You will establish them as leaders over all the earth.
They will remember your name always, for generation after generation. Because of this, people will confess to you in eternity, even forever and ever.