For which reason, you are without excuse, O man, whoever you are, that judge; for in that in which you judge another, you condemn yourself; for you who judge, practice the same things.
But we know that the judgment of God against those who practice such things, is according to truth.
But do you, O man, who judge those that practice such things, and yet do the same, conclude that you will escape the judgment of God?
Or, do you despise the riches of his goodness, and his forbearance, and his long suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance?
But, according to your hard and impenitent heart, you treasure up to yourself wrath for a day of wrath, and of the revelation of the righteous judgment of God,
who will render to every man according to his works;
to those who, by patient continuance in good works, seek for glory and honor and incorruptibility, eternal life:
but to those who are contentious, and obey not the truth, but obey unrighteousness, anger and wrath,
affliction and distress, upon every soul of man that practices what is evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek:
but glory and honor and peace to every one that practices what is good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek:
for there is no respect of persons with God.
For as many as have sinned without law, shall also perish without law; and as many as have sinned under law, shall be judged by law,
in the day when God shall judge the secret works of men by Jesus Christ, according to my gospel.
For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
For when the Gentiles, who have not a law, do, by nature, the things of the law, these who have not a law, are a law to themselves,
who show that the work which the law requires, is written in their hearts, their conscience bearing testimony, and their reasonings with each other accusing, or making excuse.
But if you are named Jew, and rest in the law, and make your boast in God.
and know his will, and approve what is excellent, being instructed by the law:
if you are also confident that you yourself are a guide for the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
an instructor of the simple, a teacher of the unlearned, because you have the form of true knowledge in the law;
you, then, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that a man should not steal, do you steal?
You who say that a man should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who detest idols, do you rob temples?
You who make your boast in the law, do you, by transgressing the law, dishonor God?
For the name of God is reviled among the Gentiles, on account of you, as it is written.
Now, circumcision is indeed profitable, if you keep the law: but, if you transgress the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision.
If, then, he who is uncircumcised keeps the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?
And shall not he whose want of circumcision is owing to his birth, if he keeps the law, condemn you, who, by the literal circumcision, transgress the law?
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh:
but he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God.