To him that excelleth upon Shoshannim. A Psalme of David. Save mee, O God: for the waters are entred euen to my soule.
I sticke fast in the deepe myre, where no staie is: I am come into deepe waters, and the streames runne ouer me.
I am wearie of crying: my throte is drie: mine eyes faile, whiles I waite for my God.
They that hate mee without a cause, are moe then the heares of mine heade: they that would destroy mee, and are mine enemies falsly, are mightie, so that I restored that which I tooke not.
O God, thou knowest my foolishnesse, and my fautes are not hid from thee.
Let not them that trust in thee, O Lord God of hostes, be ashamed for me: let not those that seeke thee, be confounded through mee, O God of Israel.
For thy sake haue I suffred reproofe: shame hath couered my face.
I am become a stranger vnto my brethren, euen an aliant vnto my mothers sonnes.
For the zeale of thine house hath eaten mee, and the rebukes of them that rebuked thee, are fallen vpon me.
I wept and my soule fasted, but that was to my reproofe.
I put on a sacke also: and I became a prouerbe vnto them.
They that sate in the gate, spake of mee, and the drunkards sang of me.
But Lord, I make my praier vnto thee in an acceptable time, euen in the multitude of thy mercie: O God, heare me in the trueth of thy saluation.
Deliuer mee out of the myre, that I sinke not: let me be deliuered from them that hate me, and out of the deepe waters.
Let not the water flood drowne mee, neither let the deepe swallowe me vp: and let not the pit shut her mouth vpon me.
Heare me, O Lord, for thy louing kindnes is good: turne vnto me according to ye multitude of thy tender mercies.
And hide not thy face from thy seruant, for I am in trouble: make haste and heare me.
Draw neere vnto my soule and redeeme it: deliuer me because of mine enemies.
Thou hast knowen my reproofe and my shame, and my dishonour: all mine aduersaries are before thee.
Rebuke hath broken mine heart, and I am full of heauinesse, and I looked for some to haue pitie on me, but there was none: and for comforters, but I found none.
For they gaue me gall in my meate, and in my thirst they gaue me vineger to drinke.
Let their table be a snare before them, and their prosperitie their ruine.
Let their eyes be blinded that they see not: and make their loynes alway to tremble.
Powre out thine anger vpon them, and let thy wrathfull displeasure take them.
Let their habitation be voide, and let none dwell in their tents.
For they persecute him, whome thou hast smitten: and they adde vnto the sorrowe of them, whome thou hast wounded.
Laie iniquitie vpon their iniquitie, and let them not come into thy righteousnesse.
Let them be put out of the booke of life, neither let them be written with the righteous.
When I am poore and in heauinesse, thine helpe, O God, shall exalt me.
I will praise the Name of God with a song, and magnifie him with thankesgiuing.
This also shall please the Lord better then a yong bullocke, that hath hornes and hoofes.
The humble shall see this, and they that seeke God, shalbe glad, and your heart shall liue.
For the Lord heareth the poore, and despiseth not his prisoners.
Let heauen and earth praise him: the seas and all that moueth in them.
For God will saue Zion, and builde the cities of Iudah, that men may dwell there and haue it in possession.
The seede also of his seruants shall inherit it: and they that loue his name, shall dwel therein.