Now Joshua was old, going on in days. And the LORD said to him, You are old, far along in days, and there remains yet very much land to be possessed.
This is the land that still remains: all the borders of the Philistines, and all Geshuri,
from Shihor, which is before Egypt, even to the borders of Ekron northward, which is counted to the Canaanite, five lords of the Philistines: of Gaza, of Ashdod, of Ashkelon, of Gath, and of Ekron; also the Avim.
From the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah which belongs to the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the borders of the Amorites.
And the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunrise, from Baal-gad under Mount Hermon to the border of Hamath,
all the inhabitants from the hills; from Lebanon to the Burning Waters, and all the Sidonians, I will expel them before the sons of Israel. Only you divide it by lot to the Israelites for an inheritance, as I have commanded you.
And, therefore, divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half tribe of Manasseh,
with whom the Reubenites and the Gadites have received their inheritance which Moses gave them beyond Jordan eastward, as Moses the servant of the LORD gave them,
from Aroer on the bank of the river Arnon, and the city in the midst of the river, and all the plain of Medeba, to Dibon;
and all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, to the border of the sons of Ammon;
and Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and Maachathites, and all mount Hermon, and all Bashan to Salcah,
all the kingdom of Og in Bashan (who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei; he remained of the rest of the giants), even Moses struck them and expelled them.
But the sons of Israel did not put out the Geshurites and the Maachathites, but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwell among the Israelites until this day.
Only, he gave no inheritance to the tribe of Levi. The sacrifices of the LORD God of Israel made by fire are their inheritance, as He said to them.
And Moses gave to the tribe of the sons of Reuben inheritance according to their families.
And their coast was from Aroer on the bank of the river Arnon, and the city in the midst of the river, and all the plain by Medeba.
He gave them Heshbon and all its cities in the plain, Dibon, and Bamoth-baal, and Beth-baal-meon,
and Jahazah, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,
and Kirjath-aim, and Sibmah, and Zarethshahar in the mountain of the valley,
and Beth-peor, and Ashdoth-pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth,
and all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon (whom Moses struck with the rulers of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, rulers of Sihon, the inhabitants of the land).
The sons of Israel also killed Balaam the son of Beor, the diviner, with the sword, among their slain.
And the border of the sons of Reuben was Jordan, and its border. This was the inheritance of the sons of Reuben according to their families, the cities and its villages.
And Moses gave inheritance to the tribe of Gad, to the sons of Gad according to their families.
And their coast was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the sons of Ammon, to Aroer, before Rabbah,
and from Heshbon to Ramoth-mizpeh, and Betonim, and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir.
And in the valley he gave them Beth-aram, and Beth-nimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, Jordan and its border, even to the edge of the Sea of Chinnereth on the east side Jordan eastward.
This is the inheritance of the sons of Gad according to their families, the cities, and their villages.
And Moses gave inheritance to the half tribe of Manasseh, and this was of the half tribe of the sons of Manasseh by their families.
And their border was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities.
And half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were given to the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh, even to their half of the sons of Machir by their families.
These are they whom Moses caused to inherit in the plains of Moab, on the other side Jordan by Jericho, eastward.
But to the tribe of Levi Moses gave no inheritance. The LORD God of Israel was their inheritance, as He said to them.