And it came to pass, when all the kings of the Amorites who were over the Jordan westward, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea, heard how that Yahweh had dried up the waters of the Jordan, from before the sons of Israel, until they had passed over, that their heart melted, and there was no spirit in them any more, because of the sons of Israel.
At that time, said Yahweh unto Joshua, Make thee knives of flint,—and again circumcise the sons of Israel, a second time.
So Joshua made him knives of flint,—and circumcised the sons of Israel, at the Hill of Foreskins.
Now, this, is the cause why Joshua did circumcise,—all the people who came forth out of Egypt, who were males, all the men of war, died in the desert, by the way, after they came forth out of Egypt.
For, though all the people who came forth had been circumcised, yet, all the people who were born in the desert by the way, after they came forth out of Egypt, had they not circumcised.
Because, for forty years, did the sons of Israel journey in the desert, until all the nation who were men of war, who came forth out of Egypt, were consumed, because they hearkened not unto the voice of Yahweh,—unto whom Yahweh sware that he would not let them see the land, which Yahweh sware unto their fathers, that he would give unto us, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Their sons, therefore, whom he had raised up in their stead, them, did Joshua circumcise,—for, uncircumcised, they were, in that they had not circumcised them by the way.
And so it came to pass, when they had made an end of circumcising all the nation, they remained in their place, in the camp, until they were healed.
Then said Yahweh unto Joshua, To-day, have I rolled away the reproach of Egypt from off you. Wherefore the name of that place is called Gilgal [="a rolling away"]unto this day.
Thus then the sons of Israel encamped in Gilgal,—and kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the month, in the evening, in the waste plains of Jericho.
And they did eat of the corn of the land, on the morrow of the passover, unleavened cakes and parched ears of corn,—on this selfsame day.
And the manna ceased on the morrow, when they had eaten of the corn of the land, neither had the sons of Israel manna any more,—so they did eat of the yield of the land of Canaan throughout that year.
And it came to pass, while Joshua was at Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes, and looked, and lo! a man standing over against him, with his sword drawn, in his hand,—so Joshua went unto him, and said to him, For us, art thou, or for our adversaries?
And he said—Nay, but, I, as prince of the host of Yahweh, have, now, come. So Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and worshipped, and said unto him, What is my lord speaking unto his servant?
Then said the prince of the host of Yahweh unto Joshua—Slip off thy sandals from thy feet, for, as for the place whereon thou art standing, holy, it is. And Joshua did so.