At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report of Jesus,
and he said to his boys, This is John the immerser. He has risen from the dead, and because of this the powers work in him.
For Herod having arrested John, bound him and put him in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife.
For John said to him, It is not permitted for thee to have her.
And though he wanted to kill him, he feared the multitude because they held him as a prophet.
But Herod's birthday being brought, the daughter of Herodias danced in the midst, and pleased Herod.
Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatever she would ask.
And she, having been put forward by her mother, says, Give me here on a platter the head of John the immerser.
And he became sad, but because of the oaths, and of those dining together, the king commanded it to be given.
And having sent, he beheaded John in the prison.
And his head was brought on a platter, and given to the maiden, and she brought it to her mother.
And after coming, his disciples took up the body and buried it, and having gone, they informed Jesus.
Now when Jesus heard it, he departed from there in a boat into a desolate place in private. And when the multitudes heard of it, they followed him on foot from the cities.
And having come forth, Jesus saw a great multitude, and he felt compassion toward them, and healed the feeble of them.
And having become evening, his disciples came to him, saying, The place is desolate, and the hour is now past. Send the multitudes away, so that having gone into the villages, they may buy food for themselves.
But Jesus said to them, They have no need to depart. Give ye them to eat.
And they say to him, We have not here, except five loaves and two fishes.
But he said, Bring them here to me.
And after commanding the multitudes to sit down on the grass, having taken the five loaves, and the two fishes, having looking up to heaven, he blessed. And having broken them in pieces, he gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes.
And they all ate, and were filled. And they took up that which remained of the fragments, twelve baskets full.
And those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
And straightaway Jesus compelled the disciples to enter into the boat, and to go ahead of him to the other side, until he would dismiss the multitudes.
And having dismissed the multitudes, he went up onto the mountain in private to pray. And having become evening, he was there alone.
But the boat was now in the midst of the sea, being buffeted by the waves, for the wind was contrary.
And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking upon the sea.
And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a ghost, and they cried out from fear.
But straightaway Jesus spoke to them, saying, Cheer up. It is I, fear not.
And having answered him, Peter said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come to thee on the waters.
And he said, Come. And having come down from the boat, Peter walked upon the water to go to Jesus.
But seeing the boisterous wind, he was afraid, and having begun to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me.
And straightaway having stretched forth his hand, Jesus took hold of him, and says to him, O thou of little faith, why did thou doubt?
And when they entered into the boat, the wind ceased.
And those who came in the boat worshiped him, saying, Thou really are the Son of God.
And when they crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret.
And when they recognized him, the men of that place sent into that whole region round about, and brought to him all those faring badly.
And they besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment. And as many as touched were healed.