And it came to pass, when Rehoboam had established the kingdom, and had strengthened himself, he forsook the law of Yahweh,—and all Israel with him.
And so it came to pass, in the fifth year of King Rehoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem,—because they had dealt treacherously against Yahweh;—
with twelve hundred chariots, and with sixty thousand horsemen,-and, without number, the people who came with him out of Egypt—Lybians, Sukkiim, and Ethiopians.
And he captured the cities of defence which belonged to Judah,—and came, as far as Jerusalem.
And, Shemaiah the prophet, came unto Rehoboam, and the rulers of Judah, who had gathered themselves together unto Jerusalem because of Shishak,—and said unto them, Thus, saith Yahweh, Ye, have left, me, Therefore, I also, have left, you, in the hands of Shishak.
Then the rulers of Israel and the king humbled themselves,—and said, Righteous, is Yahweh!
And, when Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves, the word of Yahweh came unto Shemaiah, saying—They have humbled themselves, I will not destroy them,—but will grant them, in a little while, to escape, and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem, by the hand of Shishak.
Nevertheless they shall become his servants, that they may know my service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.
So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and the treasures of the house of the king, the whole, he took,—and he took the bucklers of gold, which Solomon had made.
And King Rehoboam made, instead of them, bucklers of bronze,—and committed them unto the hand of the captains of the runners, who kept guard at the entrance of the house of the king.
And so it was, whensoever the king came into the house of Yahweh, the runners came and bare them, and then returned them into the chamber of the runners.
But, when he humbled himself, then turned from him the anger of Yahweh, that he would not destroy, to make an end,—moreover also, in Judah, there were some good things.
So King Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned,—because, forty-one years old, was Rehoboam when he began to reign, and, seventeen years, reigned he in Jerusalem, the city which Yahweh had chosen, to set his Name there—from among all the tribes of Israel, and, the name of his mother, was Naamah, the Ammonitess.
But he did evil,—in that he did not fix his heart to seek Yahweh.
Now, the story of Rehoboam, first and last, is it not written in the story of Shemaiah the prophet and Iddo the seer, for enrolling,-also the wars of Rehoboam and Jeroboam, all the days?
And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David,—and Abijah his son reigned in his stead.