The wicked flee when no one pursueth; But the righteous is as bold as a lion.
Through the transgression of a land many are its rulers; But through men of prudence and understanding the prince shall live long.
A poor man who oppresseth the needy Is a sweeping rain which leaveth no food.
They who forsake the law praise the wicked; But they who keep the law contend with them.
Wicked men understand not equity; But they who seek the LORD understand all things.
Better is a poor man who walketh in uprightness, Than he who is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.
He that keepeth the law is a wise son; But he that is the companion of prodigals bringeth shame on his father.
He that increaseth his substance by usurious gain Gathereth it for him who will pity the poor.
He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, Even his prayer shall be an abomination.
He that causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way Shall himself fall into his own pit; But the upright shall have good things in possession.
The rich man is wise in his own conceit; But the poor man, who hath understanding, will search him through.
When the righteous rejoice, there is great glorying; But, when the wicked are exalted, men hide themselves.
He that covereth his sins shall not prosper; But he that confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.
Happy the man who feareth always! But he who hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief.
As a roaring lion and a hungry bear, So is a wicked ruler over a needy people.
The prince who is weak in understanding is great in oppression; But he who hateth unjust gain shall prolong his days.
A man who is burdened with life-blood—Let him flee to the pit! let no man stay him!
He who walketh uprightly shall be safe; But he who is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
He who tilleth his land shall have bread enough; And he that followeth after worthless persons shall have poverty enough.
A faithful man shall abound with blessings; But he that maketh haste to be rich shall not go unpunished.
To have respect to persons is not good; Since for a piece of bread that man will transgress.
He who hath an evil eye hasteth after wealth, And considereth not that poverty will come upon him.
He who rebuketh a man shall afterwards find favor More than he who flattereth with his tongue.
Whoso stealeth from his father or his mother, And saith, "It is no transgression," The same is the companion of a robber.
He who is of a proud heart stirreth up strife; But he that trusteth in the LORD shall be rich.
He who trusteth in his own understanding is a fool; But he who walketh wisely shall be delivered.
He who giveth to the poor shall not want; But he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse.
When the wicked are exalted, men hide themselves; But, when they perish, the righteous increase.