And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
and he said unto Aaron: 'Take thee a bull-calf for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and offer them before HaShem.
And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying: Take ye a he-goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a lamb, both of the first year, without blemish, for a burnt-offering;
and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before HaShem; and a meal-offering mingled with oil; for to-day HaShem appeareth unto you.'
And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting; and all the congregation drew near and stood before HaShem.
And Moses said: 'This is the thing which HaShem commanded that ye should do; that the glory of HaShem may appear unto you.'
And Moses said unto Aaron: 'Draw near unto the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people; and present the offering of the people, and make atonement for them; as HaShem commanded.'
So Aaron drew near unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself.
And the sons of Aaron presented the blood unto him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar.
But the fat, and the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver of the sin-offering, he made smoke upon the altar; as HaShem commanded Moses.
And the flesh and the skin were burnt with fire without the camp.
And he slew the burnt-offering; and Aaron's sons delivered unto him the blood, and he dashed it against the altar round about.
And they delivered the burnt-offering unto him, piece by piece, and the head; and he made them smoke upon the altar.
And he washed the inwards and the legs, and made them smoke upon the burnt-offering on the altar.
And the people's offering was presented; and he took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
And the burnt-offering was presented; and he offered it according to the ordinance.
And the meal-offering was presented; and he filled his hand therefrom, and made it smoke upon the altar, besides the burnt-offering of the morning.
He slew also the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which was for the people; and Aaron's sons delivered unto him the blood, and he dashed it against the altar round about,
and the fat of the ox, and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covereth the inwards, and the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver.
And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he made the fat smoke upon the altar.
And the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave-offering before HaShem; as Moses commanded.
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings.
And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people; and the glory of HaShem appeared unto all the people.
And there came forth fire from before HaShem, and consumed upon the altar the burnt-offering and the fat; and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.