In the tenth year, in the tenth month , in the twelfth of the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against Egypt, all of it.
Speak and say, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, great monster who lies in the midst of his rivers, who has said, My river is mine, and I, even I, have made it.
But I will put hooks in your jaws, and I will cause the fish of your rivers to stick to your scales. And I will bring you up from the midst of your rivers, and all the fish of your rivers shall stick to our scales.
And I will leave you to the wilderness, you and all the fish of your rivers. You shall fall on the open field, you shall not be removed or gathered. I have given you to the beasts of the field and to the birds of the heavens for food.
And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.
When they seized you by your hand, you broke and tore off all their shoulder. And when they leaned on you, you shattered and made all their loins stand.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, I will bring on you a sword and cut off from you man and beast.
And the land of Egypt shall become for a desolation and a waste, and they shall know that I am Jehovah, because he has said, The river is mine, and I have made it.
So, behold, I am against you and against your rivers, and I will give the land of Egypt for an utter waste and a desolation, from Migdol to Syene, even to the border of Ethiopia.
The foot of man shall not pass through it, and the foot of beast shall not pass through it, and you shall not dwell forty years.
And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the lands that are desolate, and her cities shall be desolate among the wasted cities forty years. And I will disperse Egypt among the nations and sow them among the lands.
For so says the Lord Jehovah: At the end of forty years, I will gather Egypt from the peoples there where they are scattered.
And I will return the captivity of Egypt and will make them return to the land of Pathros, to the land of their origin. And they shall be a lowly kingdom there.
It shall be the lowest of the kingdoms, and it shall not lift itself any more above the nations. And I will diminish them so that they will not rule over the nations.
And it shall not be any more as confidence for the house of Israel, recalling the iniquity of their turning after them. And they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
And it happened in the twenty seventh year, in the first month , in the first of the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made his army to serve a great service against Tyre. Every head was made bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare. Yet there was no hire to him or to his army from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Behold, I will give to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon the land of Egypt. And he shall lift up her host and spoil her spoil and seize her plunder. And it shall be hire for his army.
For his labor which he served against it, I have given him the land of Egypt, because they worked for Me, declares the Lord Jehovah.
In that day I will make a horn spring up to the house of Israel, and I will give to you the opening of the mouth in their midst. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.