Bee yee therefore followers of God, as deare children,
And walke in loue, euen as Christ hath loued vs, and hath giuen himselfe for vs, to be an offering and a sacrifice of a sweete smellling sauour to God.
But fornication, and all vncleannesse, or couetousnesse, let it not be once named among you, as it becommeth Saintes,
Neither filthinesse, neither foolish talking, neither iesting, which are things not comely, but rather giuing of thankes.
For this ye know, that no whoremonger, neither vncleane person, nor couetous person, which is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdome of Christ, and of God.
Let no man deceiue you with vaine wordes: for, for such thinges commeth the wrath of God vpon the children of disobedience.
Be not therefore companions with them.
For ye were once darkenesse, but are nowe light in the Lord: walke as children of light,
(For the fruit of the Spirit is in al goodnes, and righteousnes, and trueth)
Approuing that which is pleasing to the Lord.
And haue no fellowship with ye vnfruitfull works of darknes, but euen reproue them rather.
For it is shame euen to speake of the things which are done of them in secret.
But all thinges when they are reproued of the light, are manifest: for it is light that maketh all things manifest.
Wherefore hee sayeth, Awake thou that sleepest, and stande vp from the deade, and Christ shall giue thee light.
Take heede therefore that yee walke circumspectly, not as fooles, but as wise,
Redeeming ye season: for ye daies are euill.
Wherefore, be ye not vnwise, but vnderstand what the will of the Lord is.
And be not drunke with wine, wherein is excesse: but be fulfilled with the Spirit,
Speaking vnto your selues in psalmes, and hymnes, and spirituall songs, singing, and making melodie to the Lord in your hearts,
Giuing thankes alwaies for all thinges vnto God euen the Father, in the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ,
Submitting your selues one to another in the feare of God.
Wiues, submit your selues vnto your husbands, as vnto the Lord.
For the husband is the wiues head, euen as Christ is the head of the Church, and the same is the sauiour of his body.
Therfore as the Church is in subiection to Christ, euen so let the wiues be to their husbands in euery thing.
Husbands, loue your wiues, euen as Christ loued the Church, and gaue himselfe for it,
That hee might sanctifie it, and clense it by the washing of water through the worde,
That hee might make it vnto him selfe a glorious Church, not hauing spot or wrinkle, or any such thing: but that it shoulde bee holy and without blame.
So ought men to loue their wiues, as their owne bodies: he that loueth his wife, loueth him selfe.
For no man euer yet hated his owne flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, euen as the Lord doeth the Church.
For we are members of his bodie, of his flesh, and of his bones.
For this cause shall a man leaue father and mother, and shall cleaue to his wife, and they twaine shalbe one flesh.
This is a great secrete, but I speake concerning Christ, and concerning the Church.
Therefore euery one of you, doe ye so: let euery one loue his wife, euen as himselfe, and let the wife see that shee feare her husband.