And he looked up and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury.
And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites.
And he said, In truth I say to you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all.
For all these out of their abundance cast in to the offerings; but she out of her penury cast in all the living that she had.
And as some were saying of the temple, that it was adorned with goodly stones, and sacred gifts, he said,
As for these things which ye behold, the days will come, in which there will not be left here one stone upon another, that will not be throw down.
And they asked him, saying, Teacher, when then will these things be? and what will be the sign when these things are about to come to pass?
And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived. For many will come in my name, saying, I am He, and the time is at hand. Go not after them.
And when ye hear of wars and tumults, be not terrified; for these things must first come to pass; but not immediately is the end.
Then he said to them, Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
and there will be great earthquakes, and in divers places famines and pestilences; and there will be fearful sights and great signs from heaven.
But before all these things they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to synagogues, and into prisons, and bringing you before kings and governors on account of my name.
It will turn out to you an opportunity for bearing testimony.
Settle it therefore in your hearts not to meditate l beforehand what ye shall answer.
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries will not be able to withstand or gainsay.
And ye will be delivered up both by parents and brothers and kinsmen and friends; and some of you will they put to death.
And ye will be hated by all on account of my name.
But not a hair of your head will be lost.
By your constancy secure your lives.
But when ye see Jerusalem encompassed by armies, then know that her desolation is at hand.
Then let those who are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and let those who are within the city go out of it, and let not those in the open country enter it.
For these are days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
But woe to the women with child, and to those having children at the breast, in those days! For there will be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people;
and they will fall by the edge of the sword, and will be led away captive into all the nations; and Jerusalem will be trodden down by the gentiles, until the times of the gentiles are fulfilled.
And there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars; and on the earth distress of nations, in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and waves;
men’s hearts failing them from fear, and from looking for those things which are coming on the world; for the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
And then will they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
And when these things begin to come to pass, look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.
And he spoke to them a parable: Behold the fig-tree and all the trees;
when they have already shot forth, ye see it, and know of yourselves that summer is now nigh at hand.
So also, when ye see these things coming to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.
Truly do I say to you, that this generation will not pass away, till all shall have taken place.
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.
But take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be weighed down with surfeiting and drunkenness and worldly cares, and that day come upon you unawares.
For as a snare will it come on all that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
But watch at all times, and pray that ye may be able to escape all the things that are about to come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.
And during the daytime he was teaching in the temple; but at night he went out, and lodged in the mount called the Mount of Olives.
And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple, to hear him.