I made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I look intently on a virgin?
For what is the portion from God above? And what is the legacy from the Almighty on high?
Is it not disaster to the perverse, and calamity to the workers of iniquity?
Does He not see my ways and count all my steps?
If I have walked with vanity, or my foot has hurried to deceit,
let me be weighed in a just balance so that God may know my integrity.
If my step has turned aside out of the way, or my heart has walked after my eyes, and if any blot has held fast to my hands,
let me sow, and let another eat; and let my harvests be rooted out.
If my heart has been enticed by a woman; or I have laid wait at my neighbor's door,
let my wife grind to another, and let others crouch over her.
For that would be an evil scheme, and is iniquity for judges.
For it is a fire that devours to the Place of Ruin, and it would root up all my gain.
If I despised the cause of my male slave or my slave-girl when they contended with me,
what then shall I do when God rises up? And when He calls me to account, what shall I answer Him?
Did not He who made me in the belly make him? And did not One shape us in the womb?
If I have withheld from the desire of the poor, or I have caused the widow's eyes to fail,
or have eaten my bit alone, and the orphan has not eaten it,
for from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, and from my mother's womb I guided her.
If I have seen any perish for lack of clothing, or there was no covering for the needy;
if his loins have not blessed me, and he warmed himself with the fleece of my flock;
if I have lifted up my hand against the orphan, when I watched over my help in the gate;
let my shoulder fall from the back, and let my arm be broken from the elbow.
for trouble from God is a terror to me, and I could not do the thing because of His majesty.
If I have made gold my hope or have called fine gold my trust;
if I rejoiced because my wealth was great; or because my hand had gotten much;
if I looked to the light when it shone, or the moon marching in splendor,
and my heart was secretly enticed. or my mouth has kissed my hand;
this also would be an iniquity for the judges; for I would have denied God above.
If I rejoiced at the ruin of my enemy, and I was excited when evil found him;
also I have not allowed my mouth to sin by asking his life with a curse;
if the men of my tent did not say, Who can find one not being satisfied from his meat,
the stranger did not sleep in the street, for I opened my doors to the traveler;
if I covered my transgressions like Adam, by hiding my iniquity in my bosom,
then let me fear before a great multitude, and let the scorn of families frighten me and I will be silent, and not go out the door.
Oh that I had one to hear me! See, my mark! Let the Almighty answer me, and let my Accuser write an indictment.
Surely I would carry it on my shoulder, and bind it like crowns to me.
I would tell Him the number of my steps. Like a prince I would go near Him.
If my land cries out against me, or its furrows weep together;
if I have eaten its strength without silver, or have caused its owner to expire;
let thorns come forth instead of wheat, and a weed instead of barley. The words of Job are finished.