To the chief musician, A Psalm of David, the servant of Jehovah, who spoke the words of this song to Jehovah in the day that Jehovah delivered him from the hand of all his foes, and from the hand of Saul. And he said: I love You, O Jehovah, my strength.
Jehovah is my rock, and my fortress and my deliverer; my God, my Rock; I seek refuge in Him; He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, my high tower.
I will call on Jehovah, who is to be praised; and I shall be saved from my enemies.
The cords of death hemmed me in; yea, the floods of ungodly men overwhelmed me;
cords of Sheol surrounded me; the snares of death confronted me.
In my distress I called on Jehovah and I cried to my God; He heard my voice out of His temple, and my cry went before Him, into His ears.
Then the earth shook and trembled; and the foundations of the mountains moved and were shaken, because it angered Him.
A smoke went up out of His nostrils, and fire devoured out of His mouth; coals were kindled from it.
He bowed the heavens also and came down, and darkness was under His feet;
and He rode on a cherub, and He flew; yea He soared on the wings of the wind;
He made darkness His covering, His pavilion all around Him, darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
Out of the brightness before Him, His dark clouds passed through, hailstones and coals of fire.
Jehovah also thundered in the heavens; and the Highest uttered His voice, hailstones and coals of fire.
Yea, He sent out His arrows and scattered them; and He shot out lightnings and confounded them.
Then the stream beds of waters were seen, and the foundations of the earth were bared at Your rebuke, O Jehovah, at the blast of the breath of Your nostrils.
He sent from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters;
He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from my haters; for they were stronger than I.
They went before my face in my day of calamity, but Jehovah was my support.
And He brought me out into a broad place; He delivered me because He delighted in me;
Jehovah rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands, He has repaid me.
For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
For all His judgments were before me, and I did not turn away His statutes from me.
For I was upright with Him, and kept myself from my guilt.
And Jehovah has returned to me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands before His eyes.
With the merciful, You reveal Yourself as merciful; with an upright man, You reveal yourself as upright;
with the pure, You reveal Yourself as pure; and with the crooked, You appear perverse;
for You will save an afflicted people, but will bring down haughty eyes.
For You will light my lamp; Jehovah my God will make my darkness light.
For through You I can run through a troop; and through my God I have leaped over a wall.
As for God, His way is perfect; the word of Jehovah is purified; He is a shield to all who seek refuge in Him.
For who is God besides Jehovah? Or who is a Rock except our God?
It is God who girds me with strength and gives my way to be perfect;
setting my feet like the deer, and making me stand on my high places;
teaching my hands to war, so that a bow of bronze is bent by my arms.
You have also given me the shield of Your salvation; and Your right hand holds me up; and Your condescension has made me great.
You have made a wide place under me for my steps, so that my ankles have not slipped.
I have pursued my enemies and have overtaken them; nor did I turn till they were consumed.
I have shattered them, and they cannot rise up; they fell under my feet.
And You have girded me with strength for the battle; You have bowed under me those rising against me.
And you have given me the neck of my enemies, that I might cut off my haters.
They cried, but no one is there to save; to Jehovah, but He did not answer them.
And I crushed them like the dust before the wind; I emptied them out like the mire of the streets.
You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; You have made me head of the nations; a people I have not known shall serve me.
At the hearing of the ear they listen to me; the sons of foreigners shall bow down to me.
The sons of foreigners shall faint and come trembling out of their strongholds.
Jehovah lives! And blessed be my Rock! And let the God of my salvation be exalted!
He is the God who avenges me, and speaks to people under me.
He delivers me from my enemies; yea, You lift me up from among those rising up against me. You have delivered me from the violent man.
On account of this I will extol You, O Jehovah, among the nations. and I will sing praises to Your name,
magnifying salvations to His king, and working mercy to His anointed, to David and to his seed forever.