And, after these things, the Lord appointed seventy two others, and sent them forth, two and two before his face, into every city and place whither, he himself, was about to come.
And he was saying unto them—The harvest, indeed, is, great, but, the labourers, few; beg ye, therefore, of the Lord of the harvest, that he would thrust forth, labourers, into his harvest.
Withdraw! Lo! I send you forth as lambs amid wolves.
Be not carrying purse, or satchel, or sandals, and, no one along the road, salute ye;
And, into whatsoever house ye enter, First, say, Peace to this house!
And, if the son of peace be, there, your peace, shall rest upon it; but, otherwise, at least, unto you, shall it return.
And, in the self-same house, abide ye, eating and drinking such things as they have; for, worthy, is the labourer, of his hire: be not removing from house to house.
And, into whatsoever city ye shall enter, and they bid you welcome, be eating such things as are set before you;
And be curing the sick that are, therein, and be saying unto them—The kingdom of God hath drawn nigh upon you.
But, into whatsoever city ye shall enter, and they do not welcome you, going forth into the broadways thereof, say ye:
Even the dust that cleaveth unto us, out of your city, unto our feet, do we wipe off against you; nevertheless, of this, be taking notice—The kingdom of God hath drawn near.
I tell you, for them of Sodom, in that day, more tolerable, will it be, than for that city.
Alas for thee, Chorazin! Alas for thee, Bethsaida! Because, if, in Tyre and Zidon, had been done the works of power which have been down in you, of old, in sackcloth and ashes sitting, they would have repented.
Moreover, for Tyre and Zidon, more tolerable, will it be, in the judgment, than, for you.
And, thou, Capernaum,—Unto heaven, shalt thou be uplifted? …Unto hades, thou shalt be brought down!
He that hearkeneth unto you, unto me, doth hearken, and, he that setteth you aside, doth set, me, aside; and, he that setteth, me, aside, doth set aside, him that sent me.
And the seventy [-two] returned, with joy, saying—Lord! even the demons, submit themselves unto us, in thy name!
And he said unto them—I was beholding Satan, when, like lightning, out of heaven, he fell!
Lo! I have given you the authority—to be treading upon serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and, nothing, unto you, shall in anywise do harm;
Notwithstanding, in this, be not rejoicing—that, the spirits, unto you submit themselves; but be rejoicing—that, your names, are inscribed in the heavens!
In the self-same hour, exulted he in the Holy Spirit, and said—I openly give praise unto thee, Father! Lord of heaven and earth! in that thou hast hid these things from the wise and discerning, and hast revealed them unto babes,—Yea, O Father! that, so, hath it become, a delight, before thee.
All things, unto me, have been delivered up by my Father; and, no one, knoweth, who the Son is, save the Father,—and who the Father is, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son may be minded to reveal him.
And, turning unto his disciples, privately, he said—Happy, the eyes, that see what ye see!
For I tell you, Many prophets and kings, have desired to see what, ye, see, and they saw not, and to hear what ye hear, and they heard not.
And lo! a certain lawyer, arose, putting him to the test, saying—Teacher! by doing what, shall I inherit, life age-abiding?
And, he, said unto him—In the law, what is written? how dost thou read?
And, he, answering, said—Thou shalt love the Lord thy God, out of all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might, and with all thine intention; and thy neighbour, as thyself?
And he said unto him—Rightly, hast thou answered: This, do, and thou shalt live.
But, he, wishing to justify himself, said unto Jesus—And, who is, my, neighbour?
And taking up [the question], Jesus said—A certain man, was going down from Jerusalem unto Jericho, and, with robbers, fell in,—who, stripping him, and inflicting, wounds, upon him, departed, leaving him, half dead.
And, by chance, a certain priest, was coming down by that road, and, seeing him, passed by, on the opposite side.
And, in like manner, a Levite also, coming down to the place, and seeing him, passed by, on the opposite side.
But, a certain Samaritan, going on his journey, came down to him, and, seeing him, was moved with compassion;
and, coming near, bound up his bruises, pouring thereon oil and wine,—and, setting him on his own beast, brought him into an inn, and took care of him.
And, on the morrow, throwing out two denaries, he gave them to the inn-keeper, and said—Take care of him, and, whatsoever thou shall further spend, I, when on my way back, will duly pay thee.
Which of these three, seemeth unto thee to have become, neighbour, unto him who fell among the robbers?
And, he, said—He who dealt mercifully with him. And Jesus said unto him—Be taking thy journey, and, thou, be doing, in like manner.
And, as they were journeying, he, entered into a certain village; and, a certain woman, named Martha, welcomed him into her house.
And, she, had a sister, called Mary, who also, seating herself at the feet of the Lord, was hearing his word.
But, Martha, was distracted about much ministering, and, coming near, said—Lord! carest thou not that, my sister, hath left me to be ministering, alone? Speak to her, then, that she help me.
But the Lord, answering, said to her—Martha! Martha! thou art anxious and troubled about many things:
Of few things, is there need, or, of one; Mary, in fact, hath chosen, the good part,—one which shall not be taken away from her.