And in the seventh year Jehoiada made himself strong and took the commanders of the hundreds, even Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.
And they went around in Judah and gathered the Levites out of all the cities of Judah, and the chiefs of the fathers of Israel, and came to Jerusalem.
And all the congregation made a covenant in the house of God with the king, and he said to them, Behold, the king's son shall reign, as Jehovah has spoken of the sons of David.
This is what you shall do: the third of you going in on the sabbath, of the priests, and of the Levites, shall be keepers of the doors;
and a third shall be at the king's house, and a third at the gate of the foundation; and all the people shall be in the courts of the house of Jehovah.
And no one shall enter the house of Jehovah except the priests and those ministering of the Levites; they may go in, for they are holy; and all the people shall keep the watch of Jehovah.
And the Levites shall surround the king, each with his weapon in his hand; and he who goes into the house shall be put to death; and you be with the king in his coming in and in his going out.
And the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that Jehoiada the priest had commanded. And every man took his men who were to come in on the sabbath, the ones who were to go out on the sabbath. For Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss the divisions.
And Jehoiada the priest gave to the commanders of the hundreds the spears, and the shields, and the bucklers that were king David's, that were in the house of God.
And he stationed all of the people, and each had his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, at the altar, and by the king at the house all around.
And they brought out the son of the king, and put the crown on him, and the testimony, and made him king; and Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and cried, Let the king live!
And Athaliah heard the sound of the people who were running and who were praising the king; and she came to the people in the house of Jehovah,
and looked; and behold, the king was standing by his pillar in the entrance, and the commanders and the trumpets were by the king; and all the people of the land were rejoicing and sounding with trumpets; and the singers with instruments of song, and giving signals to praise; and Athaliah tore her garments and cried, Treason! Treason!
And Jehoiada the priest brought out the commanders of the hundreds, those over the army, and said to them, Bring her out from inside the ranks, and he coming after her shall be put to death by the sword; for the priest said, Do not put her to death in the house of Jehovah.
And they laid hands to her, and she came into the entrance of the Gate of Horses, beside the king's house, and they put her to death there.
And Jehoiada made a covenant between himself and between all the people, and between the king, to be a people to Jehovah;
and all the people went into the house of Baal and broke it down; yea, they broke down his altars and his images; and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
And Jehoiada put the offices of the house of Jehovah into the hand of the Levitical priests, whom David had allotted over the house of Jehovah, to offer the burnt offerings of Jehovah, as it is written in the law of Moses; with joy, and with singing, by the hands of David.
And he stationed the keepers at the gates of the house of Jehovah; and the unclean could not in any way go in.
And he took the commanders of the hundreds, and the honorable ones, and the rulers among the people, and all the people of the land, and brought the king down from the house of Jehovah; and they came in through the Upper Gate to the king's house, and made the king sit on the throne of the kingdom.
And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet. And they put to death Athaliah by the sword.