For ye yourselves know, brothers, our entrance with you, that it has not become empty.
But having suffered before and been mistreated in Philippi, as ye know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the good news of God within much conflict.
For our exhortation is not from error, nor from uncleanness, nor in deception,
but as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the good news, thus we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who proves our hearts.
For we came neither in word of flattery (at any time as ye know) nor a pretense of greed (God is witness)
nor seeking glory from men, neither from you nor from others. While able to bear down as apostles of Christ,
nevertheless we became gentle in the midst of you, as a nurse cherishes her own children.
Thus being desirous of you, we were pleased to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because ye have become beloved to us.
For ye remember, brothers, our labor and the hardship. For, laboring night and day in order not to burden any of you, we preached to you the good news of God.
Ye are witnesses, and God, how piously and justly and blamelessly we became to you who believe,
just as ye know, as each one of you as a father of his own children, imploring you, and comforting,
and solemnly declaring for you to walk worthily of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory.
And because of this we thank God without ceasing, because, having received the word of God heard from us, ye received not the word of men, but as it truly is, the word of God, which also is at work in you who believe.
For ye, brothers, became imitators of the congregations of God, which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, because ye also suffered the same things by your own countrymen, just as also they by the Jews.
The men who both killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and who persecuted us, and are not pleasing to God, and are contrary to all men.
Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles so that they might be saved, in order to fill up their sins always. But wrath came upon them finally.
But we, brothers, who were orphaned from you for the time of an hour, in presence not in heart, hastened more earnestly to see your face, with much desire.
Therefore we wanted to come to you, indeed I, Paul, even once and again, and Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope or joy or crown of boast? Or is it not even ye, before our Lord Jesus at his coming?
For ye are our glory and joy.