A wise son heeds his father's instruction, but a scorner does not hear rebuke.
From the fruit of his mouth a man shall eat good, but the soul of the treacherous eats violence.
He who keeps his mouth keeps his life; he who opens his lips wide, it is ruin to him.
The soul of the sluggard desires and has nothing; but the soul of the hard worker shall be made fat.
The righteous hates lying, but the wicked one is odious and acts shamefully.
Righteousness guards the perfect of way, but wickedness subverts sin.
There are those who act rich, yet have nothing; and those who act poor, yet have great riches.
The ransom of a man's life is his riches, but the poor does not hear rebuke.
The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
Only by pride comes argument, but with those who take advice is wisdom.
Wealth gotten by vanity shall be taken away, but he who gathers by labor shall increase.
Hope put off makes the heart sick, but desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
Whoever despises the word shall be destroyed, but he who fears the commandment shall be rewarded.
The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Good understanding gives favor, but the way of traitors is ever flowing.
Every wise one deals with knowledge, but a fool lays open his folly.
A wicked messenger falls into mischief, but a faithful ambassador is health.
Poverty and shame shall be to him who refuses instruction, but he who listens to correction shall be honored.
The desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but it is hateful to fools to turn from evil.
He who walks with the wise shall be wise, but a companion with fools shall be destroyed.
Evil pursues sinners, but to the righteous good shall be repaid.
A good man leaves an inheritance to his sons' sons, and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.
Much food is in the plowed ground of the poor, but when there is no justice, it is swept away.
He who spares his rod hates his son, but he who loves him chastens him early.
The righteous eats to the satisfying of his soul, but the belly of the wicked shall lack.