Who is this who comes from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah, this who is glorious in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength? I who speak in righteousness, mighty to save.
Why are thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him who treads in the wine vat?
I have trodden the winepress alone, and of the peoples there was no man with me. Yea, I trod them in my anger, and trampled them in my wrath, and their lifeblood is sprinkled upon my garments, and I have stained all my raiment.
For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redeemed has come.
And I looked, and there was none to help. And I wondered that there was none to uphold. Therefore my own arm brought salvation to me. And my wrath, it upheld me.
And I trod down the peoples in my anger, and made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth.
I will make mention of the loving kindnesses of Jehovah, and the praises of Jehovah, according to all that Jehovah has bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he has bestowed on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
For he said, Surely, they are my people, sons that will not deal falsely. So he was their Savior.
In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the agent of his presence saved them. In his love and in his pity he redeemed them. And he bore them, and carried them all the days of old.
But they rebelled, and grieved his holy Spirit. Therefore he was turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them.
Then he remembered the days of old, Moses and his people, saying, Where is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who put his holy Spirit in the midst of them,
who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, who divided the waters before them, to make himself an everlasting name,
who led them through the depths, as a horse in the wilderness, so that they stumbled not?
As the cattle that go down into the valley, the Spirit of Jehovah caused them to rest. So thou led thy people to make thyself a glorious name.
Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory. Where are thy zeal and thy mighty acts? The yearning of thy heart and thy compassions are restrained toward me.
For thou are our Father, though Abraham knows us not, and Israel does not acknowledge us, thou, O Jehovah, are our Father, our Redeemer, from everlasting is thy name.
O Jehovah, why do thou make us to err from thy ways, and harden our heart from thy fear? Return for thy servants' sake, the tribes of thine inheritance.
Thy holy people possessed it but a little while. Our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary.
We have become as those over whom thou never bore rule, as those who were not called by thy name.