And David said, Is there yet any who is left of the house of Saul that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake?
And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David. And the king said to him, Are thou Ziba? And he said, Thy servant is he.
And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God to him? And Ziba said to the king, Jonathan has yet a son who is lame in his feet.
And the king said to him, Where is he? And Ziba said to the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, in Lo-debar.
Then king David sent, and fetched him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo-debar.
And Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, and fell on his face, and did obeisance. And David said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold, thy servant!
And David said to him, Fear not, for I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan thy father's sake, and will restore to thee all the land of Saul thy father, and thou shall eat bread at my table continually.
And he did obeisance, and said, What is thy servant that thou should look upon such a dead dog as I am?
Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, All that pertained to Saul and to all his house I have given to thy master's son.
And thou shall till the land for him, thou, and thy sons, and thy servants. And thou shall bring in the fruits that thy master's son may have bread to eat, but Mephibosheth thy master's son shall always eat bread at my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.
Then Ziba said to the king, According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so shall thy servant do. As for Mephibosheth, the king said, he shall eat at my table as one of the king's sons.
And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Mica. And all who dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants to Mephibosheth.
So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he ate continually at the king's table. And he was lame in both his feet.