More choice, is a name, than great riches, beyond silver and gold, is pleasant grace.
The rich and the poor, meet together, the maker of them all, is Yahweh.
A prudent man, seeth calamity, and hideth himself, but, the simple, pass on, and suffer.
The reward of humility, is the reverence of Yahweh, riches, and honour, and life.
Thorns and snares, are in the way of the perverse,—he that guardeth his soul, shall be far from them.
Train up a youth, in the direction of his duty, even when he becometh old, he will not depart from it.
The rich, over the poor, beareth rule,—and, slave, is the borrower to the lender.
He that soweth perversity, shall reap trouble, and, the rod of his wrath, shall be ready.
A benevolent eye, the same, shall be blessed,—because he hath given of his bread to the poor.
Drive away the scoffer, that strife may depart, and quarrel, and contempt may cease.
Yahweh loveth the pure in heart, gracious are his lips, his friend is the king!
The eyes of Yahweh, watch over knowledge, therefore hath he overturned the words of the treacherous.
Saith the sluggard, A lion outside! Amidst the broadways, shall I be slain.
A deep chasm, is the mouth of strange women, he with whom Yahweh is indignant, falleth there.
Foolishness, is bound up in the heart of a youth, the rod of correction, shall drive it far from him.
He that oppresseth the poor, to make increase for himself, giving to the rich, shall surely come to want.
Incline thine ear and hear the words of wise men, then, thy heart, wilt thou apply to my teaching;
For sweet shall they be, when thou shalt keep them in thine inmost mind, they shall fit well together, upon thy lips.
That in Yahweh may be thy trust, I have made them known to thee to-day, even to thee.
Have I not written for thee noble things, with counsels and knowledge:
To cause thee to know the meaning of faithful sayings, that thou mayest give back faithful sayings to them who ask thee.
Do not rob the poor, because he is poor, neither crush thou the oppressed in the gate;
For, Yahweh, will plead their cause, and will despoil their despoilers of life.
Do not have friendship with one given to anger, and, with a wrathful man, shall thou not enter in:
Lest thou learn his ways, and take a snare to thy soul.
Be not of them who strike hands, of them who are sureties for debts:
If thou hast nothing to pay, why should one take away thy bed from under thee?
Do not move back the ancient boundary, which thy father’s made.
Seest thou a man prompt in his business? before kings, shall he stand, he shall not stand before men who are obscure.