Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, according to the promise of the life in Christ Jesus,
to Timothy, a beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I have gratitude to God whom I serve from the forefathers in a pure conscience, as I have unceasing remembrance about thee in my supplications, night and day
longing to see thee, having remembered thy tears, so that I may be filled with joy,
taking memory of the non-hypocritical faith in thee, which first dwelt in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee also.
Because of which reason I remind thee to rekindle the gift of God that is in thee through the laying on of my hands.
For God did not give us a spirit of cowardice, but of power, and of love, and of soberness.
Be not ashamed therefore of the testimony of our Lord nor of me his prisoner, but suffer together with the good news according to the power of God.
Who saved us and who called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before times eternal.
But which has now been manifested by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who indeed abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the good news,
for which I was appointed a herald, and an apostle, and a teacher of Gentiles.
Because of which reason I also suffer these things. But I am not ashamed, for I know him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to preserve my consignment for that day.
Hold the pattern of sound words that thou heard from me, in faith and love in Christ Jesus.
Guard the good consignment through the Holy Spirit that dwells in us.
This thou know, that all those in Asia turned away from me, of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain.
But when he happened to be in Rome he sought me more diligently and found me
(may the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord in that day), and in how many things he ministered at Ephesus, thou know very well.