And, the Sabbath having passed, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that, coming, they might anoint him.
And, very early, on the first of the week, they are coming towards the tomb—when, the sun, arose.
And they were saying one to another—Who, shall roll away for us the stone, out of the door of the tomb?
And, looking up, they observe that the stone hath been rolled up,—for it was exceeding great.
And, entering into the tomb, they saw a young man, sitting on the right, clothed with a white robe,—and they were greatly alarmed.
But, he, saith unto them—Be not alarmed! Jesus, ye are seeking, the Nazarene, the crucified: He hath arisen! he is not here,—See! the place where they laid him!
But go your way, tell his disciples, and Peter—He is going before you into Galilee: there, shall ye yourselves see him,—according as he said unto you.
And, going out, they fled from the tomb, for, trembling and transport, were holding them; and, unto no one, said they, anything, for they were afraid.
[[And, arising early, on the first of the week, he was manifested, first, unto Mary the Magdalene, from whom he had cast, seven demons.
She, going her way, bare tidings unto them who had come to be with him, as they were mourning and weeping.
And, they, hearing that he was living, and had been looked upon by her, disbelieved.
But, after these things, unto two from among them, as they were walking, was he manifested, in a different form, as they were going unto a country place;
and, they, departing, bare tidings unto the rest,—but, even them, they believed not.
But, afterwards, unto the eleven themselves, as they reclined, was he manifested, and he upbraided their disbelief and hardness of heart,—because, them who had looked upon him when arisen [from among the dead] they believed not;
and he said unto them—Go ye into all the world, and proclaim the glad-message, to the whole creation:
He that hath believed, and been immersed, shall be saved; but, he that hath disbelieved, shall be condemned:
Signs, moreover, shall follow, them who have believed,—these:—In my name, shall they cast, demons, out, with tongues, shall they speak,—[and, in their hands,] they shall take up, serpents;
And, if, any deadly thing, they have drunk, in nowise, shall it, hurt, them: Upon sick persons, shall they lay, hands, and, well, shall they remain.
The Lord [Jesus], therefore, on the one hand, after talking with them, was taken up into heaven, and sat down on the right hand of God:
They, on the other hand, going forth, proclaimed on every side, the Lord, co-working, and confirming, the word, through, the closely following signs.]] OTHERWISE. [[All the things given in charge unto the companions of Peter, they concisely reported. But, after these things, Jesus also, himself, from east even unto west, sent forth, through them, the sacred and incorruptible proclamation of the age-abiding salvation.]]