And Jehovah spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
This month shall be to you the beginning of months; it shall be the first month of the year to you.
Speak ye to all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb, according to their fathers' houses, a lamb for a household.
And if the household be too little for a lamb, then he and his neighbor next to his house shall take one according to the number of the souls, according to every man's eating ye shall make your count for the lamb.
Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. Ye shall take it from the sheep, or from the goats.
And ye shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it at evening.
And they shall take of the blood, and put it on the two side-posts and on the lintel upon the houses in which they shall eat it.
And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roasted with fire, and unleavened bread, with bitter herbs they shall eat it.
Do not eat of it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roasted with fire, its head with its legs and with the inwards of it.
And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning, but that which remains of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire.
And thus ye shall eat it: with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand. And ye shall eat it in haste. It is Jehovah's Passover.
For I will go through the land of Egypt in that night, and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments. I am Jehovah.
And the blood shall be to you for a sign upon the houses where ye are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and there shall no plague be upon you to destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt.
And this day shall be to you for a memorial, and ye shall keep it a feast to Jehovah; throughout your generations ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever.
Seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread, even the first day ye shall put away leaven out of your houses, for whoever eats leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.
And in the first day there shall be to you a holy convocation, and in the seventh day a holy convocation, no manner of work shall be done in them, except that which every man must eat, that only may be done by you.
And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread, for in this selfsame day I have brought your armies out of the land of Egypt. Therefore ye shall observe this day throughout your generations by an ordinance forever.
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, ye shall eat unleavened bread, until the twenty-first day of the month at evening.
Seven days there shall be no leaven found in your houses, for whoever eats that which is leavened, that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a sojourner, or one who is born in the land.
Ye shall eat nothing leavened, in all your habitations ye shall eat unleavened bread.
Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said to them, Draw out, and take to you lambs according to your families, and kill the Passover.
And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two side-posts with the blood that is in the basin, and none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning.
For Jehovah will pass through to smite the Egyptians, and when he sees the blood upon the lintel, and on the two side-posts, Jehovah will pass over the door, and will not allow the destroyer to come in to your houses to smite you.
And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons forever.
And it shall come to pass, when ye have come to the land which Jehovah will give you, according as he has promised, that ye shall keep this service.
And it shall come to pass, when your sons shall say to you, What do ye mean by this service?
that ye shall say, It is the sacrifice of Jehovah's Passover, who passed over the houses of the sons of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and delivered our houses. And the people bowed the head and worshiped.
And the sons of Israel went and did so, as Jehovah had commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.
And it came to pass at midnight, that Jehovah smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of cattle.
And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians, and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead.
And he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up, get you forth from among my people, both ye and the sons of Israel, and go, serve Jehovah, as ye have said.
Take both your flocks and your herds, as ye have said, and be gone, and bless me also.
And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, to send them out of the land in haste, for they said, We are all dead men.
And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading-troughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.
And the sons of Israel did according to the word of Moses, and they asked of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment.
And Jehovah gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. And they despoiled the Egyptians.
And the sons of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot who were men, besides children.
And a mixed multitude also went up with them, and flocks, and herds, even very much cattle.
And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt, for it was not leavened, because they were thrust out of Egypt, and could not tarry, neither had they prepared for themselves any provisions.
Now the time that the sons of Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan was four hundred and thirty years.
And it came to pass at the end of four hundred and thirty years, even the selfsame day it came to pass, that all the armies of Jehovah went out from the land of Egypt.
It is a night to be much observed to Jehovah for bringing them out from the land of Egypt. This is that night of Jehovah, to be much observed of all the sons of Israel throughout their generations.
And Jehovah said to Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of the Passover. There shall no foreigner eat of it,
but every man's servant who is bought for money, when thou have circumcised him, then he shall eat of it.
A sojourner and a hired servant shall not eat of it.
In one house it shall be eaten. Thou shall not carry forth any of the flesh abroad out of the house, neither shall ye break a bone of it.
All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the Passover to Jehovah, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near and keep it, and he shall be as one who is born in the land, but no uncircumcised man shall eat of it.
One law shall be to him who is home-born, and to the stranger who sojourns among you.
Thus did all the sons of Israel, as Jehovah commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.
And it came to pass the selfsame day, that Jehovah brought the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.