I beseech you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, your reasonable service.
And be not conformed to this age, but be ye transformed by the renewal of your mind, for ye to approve what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
For I say, through the grace that was given me, to every man who is among you, not to over think beyond what he ought to think, but to think so as to think soundly, as God has apportioned to each man a measure of faith.
For just as we have many body-parts in one body, and all the body-parts have not the same function,
so we, the many, are one body in Christ, and each one body-parts of each other.
And having different gifts according to the grace that was given to us, whether prophecy, according to the proportion of faith;
or service, in the service; or he who teaches, in the teaching;
or he who exhorts, in the exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who leads, in diligence; he who does mercy, in cheerfulness.
Love without hypocrisy, abhorring what is evil, clinging to what is good,
with brotherly love toward each other, affectionate, leading each other in recognition,
not lazy in diligence, being fervent in the Spirit serving the Lord,
rejoicing in hope, enduring tribulation, persevering in prayer,
sharing for the needs of the sanctified, pursuing love for strangers.
Bless those who persecute you. Bless ye and do not curse.
Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep,
thinking the same way toward each other, not thinking on lofty things, but accommodating to the lowly. Become not wise according to yourselves,
rendering to no man evil for evil, premeditating things right in the sight of all men.
If possible from you, keeping peace with all men,
not avenging yourselves, beloved, but give place to wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is for me, I will repay, says the Lord.
Therefore if thine enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him to drink. For by doing this thou will heap coals of fire upon his head.
Be thou not overcome by evil, but overcome evil by good.