And he arose and went thence into the borders of Judea, by the other side of the Jordan. And the multitudes again came together to him; and, as his custom was, he taught them again.
And the Pharisees came to him, and that they might tempt him, asked him the question: Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife?
He answered and said to them: What commandment did Moses give you?
They replied: Moses permitted us to write a bill of divorce, and put her away.
And Jesus answered and said to them: On account of the hardness of your hearts, he wrote this commandment for you.
But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female.
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined to his wife;
and the two shall be one flesh. So, then, they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man put asunder.
And in the house, his disciples again asked him about the same matter.
And he said to them: Whoever puts away his wife, and marries another, commits adultery against her;
and if a woman puts away her husband, and is married to another, she commits adultery.
And they brought little children to him, that he might touch them: but his disciples rebuked those who brought them.
And when Jesus saw it, he was displeased, and said to them: Let the little children come to me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God.
Verily I say to you, Whoever will not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, shall not enter into it.
And he took them in his arms, laid his hands on them, and blessed them.
And as he was going forth into the road, one ran and bowed the knee to him, and asked him: Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
Jesus said to him: Why do you call me good? None is good but one, that is God.
You know the commandments, You shall not commit adultery; You shall not kill; You shall not steal; You shall not give false testimony; You shall not defraud; Honor your father and mother.
He answered and said to him: Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth.
And Jesus, looking on him, loved him, and said to him: One thing you lack; go, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me.
But becoming sad at that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions.
And Jesus looked around, and said to his disciples: With what difficulty will those who have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
And his disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus, answering again, said to them: Children, how hard it is for those who trust in riches to enter the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And they were astonished beyond measure, and said among themselves: Who, then, can be saved?
Jesus looked on them and said: With men this is impossible, but not with God; for with God all things are possible.
And Peter began to say to him: Behold, we have left all and followed thee.
And Jesus answering, said: Verily I say to you, There is no one that has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and for the sake of the gospel,
who shall not receive a hundred-fold, now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions; and in the age to come, eternal life.
But many that are first shall be last; and the last first.
And they were in the road going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus went before them; and they were amazed, and as they followed, they were afraid. And again taking the twelve aside, he began to tell them what was about to befall him.
Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him to the Gentiles;
and they will deride him, and scourge him, and spit upon him, and kill him, and on the third day he will rise again.
And James and John the sons of Zebedee came to him, and said: Teacher, we desire you to do for us whatever we shall ask.
He said to them: What do you wish me to do for you?
They said to him: Grant to us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left, in thy glory.
Jesus said to them: You know not what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, and to be immersed with the immersion with which I am immersed?
They said to him: We are able. Jesus said to them: You shall drink the cup that I drink, and you shall be immersed with the immersion with which I am immersed.
But to sit on my right hand and on my left, is not mine to give; but it shall be given to those for whom it is prepared.
And when the ten heard it, they began to be displeased with James and John.
But Jesus called them to him, and said to them: You know that those who think they rule the Gentiles, act as lords over them; and their great men exercise authority over them.
But it shall not be so among you. But whoever desires to be great among you, shall be your minister;
and whoever among you desires to be first, shall be servant of all.
For the Son of man came not to be ministered to, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.
And they came to Jericho: and as he was going out of Jericho, with his disciples and a great multitude, blind Bartimæus, the son of Timæus, was sitting on the roadside, begging.
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say: Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me!
And many rebuked him, that he should be silent. But he cried out yet the more: Son of David, have mercy on me!
And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, and said to him: Take courage; arise, he calls you.
And throwing away his mantle, he arose, and came to Jesus.
And Jesus answered and said to him: What do you wish me to do for you? The blind man said to him: Rabboni, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said to him: Go, your faith has saved you. And he immediately received his sight, and followed Jesus on the road.