And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and without, sealed fast with seven seals.
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose its seals?
And no one in heaven, nor on the earth, nor under the earth, was able to open the book, nor to look thereon.
And I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the book, nor to look thereon.
And one of the elders saith to me, Weep not; behold, the Lion that is of the tribe of Judah, the shoot from David, conquered, he that openeth the book, and its seven seals.
And I saw, between the throne and the four living creatures and the elders, a Lamb standing, as if it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.
And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, having each one a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
And they sing a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open its seals; for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed to God by thy blood men out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation,
and hast made them a kingdom and priests, and they reign on the earth.
And I saw, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands;
saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing.
And every creature which is in heaven, and those which are on the earth and under the earth, and on the sea, and the things in them, I heard them all saying, To him that sitteth upon the throne, and to the Lamb, be the blessing, and the honor, and the glory, and the dominion, for ever and ever.
And the four living creatures said Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.