Therefore having been made righteous from faith, we have peace toward God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom also we have access by faith for this grace in which we stand, and we take pride in hope of the glory of God.
And not only so, but we also take pride in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance,
and perseverance, character, and character, hope.
And hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit that was given to us.
For while we were yet weak, in due time Christ died for the impious.
For scarcely for a righteous man will some man die, indeed perhaps for the good man some man would even dare to die.
But God commends his love toward us, that, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Much more then, now having been made righteous by his blood, we will be saved from the wrath through him.
For if, while being enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more having been reconciled we will be saved by his life.
And not only so, but also taking pride in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
Because of this, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, so also death passed to all men, in that all sinned.
For until law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law.
Nevertheless death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who did not sin in the likeness of Adam's transgression, who is a type of the coming man.
But in this way also, the gift is not as the transgression. For if by the trespass of the one man the many died, much more the grace of God, and the gift in grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for the many.
And the gift is not as through one man who sinned, for indeed the judgment from one man was for condemnation, but the gift from many offenses is for righteousness.
For if, by the offense of the one man, death reigned through the one man, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ.
So then, as through an offense of one man was for condemnation for all men, so also through a righteousness of one man was for justification of life for all men.
For as through the one man's disobedience the many were led sinful, so also through the obedience of the one man the many will be led righteous.
And the law entered so that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace was more abundant,
so that, as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign, through righteousness, for eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.