AND it came to pass on the sabbath after the second day of the passover, that he was passing through the cornfields; and the disciples plucked the ears of corn, and did eat, rubbing them out in their hands.
Then said some of the Pharisees unto them, Why do ye that which is not lawful on the sabbath-day?
And Jesus answering said to them; Have ye never read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him?
how he entered into the house of God, and took the loaves of shew-bread, and did eat, and gave also to those who were with him; which it was not lawful for any to eat, but the priests alone?
And he said, The Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath-day.
And it came to pass on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and a man was there, and his right hand was shrunk.
Then the scribes and Pharisees watched him, if he would heal on the sabbath-day, that they might find an accusation against him.
Now he knew their thoughts, and said to the man who had the withered hand, Rise, and stand in the midst. And he arose, and stood up.
Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you a question; Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath-day, or to do evil? to preserve life or to destroy it?
And looking round upon them all, he said to the man, Stretch out thine hand; and he did so: and his hand was restored sound as the other.
But they were filled with madness, and talked earnestly to each other what they could do to Jesus.
Now it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray and continued all night in an oratory of God.
And when it was day, he called his disciples to him; and elected from them twelve, whom he named Apostles:
Simon, whom he also called Peter, and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
Matthew and Thomas, James son of Alpheus, and Simon called the Zealous,
Jude the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who also was the traitor.
And coming down with them, he stood on a level spot: and the crowd of his disciples, and a vast multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;
and they who were disturbed with unclean spirits: and they were cured.
And all the multitude strove to touch him, for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all.
And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed are ye poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are ye who hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh.
Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from them, and shall revile you, and shall cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man’s sake.
Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy; for, lo! your reward is great in heaven: for after the same manner did your fathers to the prophets.
But wo unto you who are rich! for ye have received your consolation.
Wo unto you who are full! for ye shall hunger. Wo unto you who laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep.
Wo unto you, when men shall speak well of you! for just so did their fathers of the false prophets.
But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you;
bless those who curse you, and pray for those who wantonly insult you.
To him that smiteth thee on the cheek, offer the other also; and from him who would take from thee thy cloak, withhold not thy coat also.
And give to every one that asketh thee; and from him who would take thy goods, demand them not again.
And as ye would that men should do unto you, do ye also to them in like manner.
And if ye love them that love you, what thanks are due to you? for even sinners love those who love them.
And if ye do good to them who do good to you, what thanks have ye? do not even sinners the same thing?
And if ye lend to those, from whom ye hope to receive back again, what thanks are due to you? for sinners lend to sinners, that they may receive an equivalent.
But love your enemies, and do good and lend, hoping for nothing in return: and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the Most High; for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the wicked.
Be ye therefore compassionate, as also your Father is compassionate.
And judge not, that ye be not judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned:
give, and there shall be given unto you; good measure pressed down, and shook, and running over, shall they give into your lap. For with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured back to you again.
And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? will they not both fall into the pit?
The disciple is not above his teacher; but every one who is completely taught shall be as his master.
But why beholdest thou the mote which is in thy brother’s eye, but observest not the beam which is in thine own eye?
Or how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, permit me to take off the mote which is on thine eye, not seeing thyself the beam in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite! cast out the beam which is in thine eye, and then shalt thou see distinctly to take off the mote which is in thy brother’s eye.
For there is no good tree which produceth fruit of a bad quality; neither doth a tree of a bad sort produce good fruit.
Every tree is known by its own peculiar fruit. For men do not gather figs from off thorns, nor do they gather from the bramble a bunch of grapes.
A good man, out of the good treasure of his heart, produceth what is good; and a wicked man, from the evil treasure in his heart, produceth that which is evil: for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?
Every one who cometh to me, and heareth my words, and puts them in practice, I will shew you to whom he is like:
he is like to a man, building a house, who digged, and sunk deep, and laid the foundation on a rock; and when there was a flood, the river rushed violently against that house, and was not of force to shake it, for it was founded on a rock.
But he that heareth, and doth not practice, is like a man who built his house on the earth without a foundation; against which the river rushed violently, and immediately it fell; and the crash of the fall of that house was great.