And the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon as to the name of Jehovah, and she came to test him with hard questions.
And she came to Jerusalem with a very great company, camels bearing spices, and very much gold, and precious stones. And she came to Solomon and spoke with him all that had been in her heart.
And Solomon told her all her matters; there was not one thing hidden from the king that he did not declare to her.
And the queen of Sheba saw the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he built,
and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the standing of his ministers, and their clothing, and his cupbearers and his burnt offering that he offered in the house of Jehovah; and there was no more breath in her.
And she said to the king, The word that I heard in my land was true as to your matters and your wisdom.
And I did not believe the words until I had come and my eyes had seen; and behold, the half was not told to me. You have wisdom and prosperity exceeding the fame which I heard.
Oh the happiness of your men! Oh the happiness of your servants, these who stand before you continually, who hear your wisdom!
Blessed be Jehovah your God who delighted in you, to put you on the throne of Israel, because Jehovah loved Israel forever, therefore He made you king, to do judgment and righteousness.
And she gave to the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and very many spices, and precious stones; no spice like that came any more for abundance, that the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.
And also, the navy of Hiram that bore gold from Ophir brought in from Ophir almug trees, a great many, and precious stones;
and the king made the almug trees a support for the house of Jehovah, and for the king's house, and harps and lyres for singers; no such almug trees have come, nor have there been seen such to this day.
And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire that she asked, apart from that which he gave to her as a memorial of king Solomon. And she turned and went to her land, she and her servants.
And the weight of the gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and sixty six talents of gold,
apart from the merchant men, and from the traffic of the traders, and from all the Arabian kings, and from the governors of the lands.
And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: six hundred of gold went to one target;
and three hundred shields of beaten gold: three minas of gold went to one shield; and the king put them in the house of the forest of canon.
And the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with refined gold.
The throne had six steps, and the top of the throne was round behind; and stays were on either side on the place of the seat, and two lions stood beside the stays;
and twelve lions were standing on the six steps, on this side and on that; there was not the like made in any kingdom.
And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of refined gold; there was none of silver; it was not counted for anything in the days of Solomon;
For the king had a navy of Tarshish at sea with a navy of Hiram; once in three years the navy of Tarshish would come bearing gold, and silver, and ivory, and apes, and peacocks.
And king Solomon was greater than any of the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom;
and all the earth was seeking the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom that God had put into his heart;
and they were each one bringing his present, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and garments, and armor, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen, and he had a thousand, four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen; and he placed them in the cities of the chariots, and with the king in Jerusalem.
And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and he made cedars as the sycamores that are in the low country, for abundance.
And the horses that king Solomon had were brought from Egypt, and from Kue; the king's merchants received them from Kue at a price;
and a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty; and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria they brought them out by their means.