And it came to pass in Iconium that they together entered into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake that there believed, both of Jews and Greeks, a great throng.
But, the unpersuaded Jews, roused up and provoked the souls of them of the nations against the brethren.
A good while, therefore, tarried they, using boldness of speech [in dependence] upon the Lord, who was bearing witness unto his word of favour, granting signs and wonders to be coming to pass through their hands.
And the throng of the city was divided; and some indeed were with the Jews, while some were with the apostles.
But, when there took place an assault both of them of the nations and of the Jews, with their rulers, to maltreat and to stone them,
They became aware of it, and fled unto the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the surrounding country;
And, there, were they announcing the glad tidings.
And, a certain man in Lystra, impotent in his feet, was sitting,—lame from his mother’s womb, who never had walked.
This man, hearkened unto Paul, as he was speaking,—who, looking steadfastly at him, and seeing he had faith to be made well,
Said, with a loud voice—Stand up on thy feet, erect! And he sprang up, and began to walk about.
And, the multitudes, seeing what Paul had done, lifted up their voice, in the speech of Lycaonia—The gods, made like unto men, have come down unto us!
And they went on to call Barnabas, Jupiter, and Paul, Mercury, seeing that, he, was the leader of discourse.
Also, the priest of the Jupiter that was before the city, bringing bulls and garlands unto the gates, with the multitudes, would have offered sacrifice.
But the apostles Barnabas and Paul, hearing of it, rending asunder their own mantles, sprang forward amidst the multitude, crying aloud,
and saying—Men! Why, these things, are ye doing? We also, of like nature with you, are men, bringing you the good news, that from these vain things, ye should be turning unto a living God:—Who made heaven and the earth and the sea and all things therein;
Who in the bygone generations suffered all the nations to be going on in their own ways,—
Although, not without witness, he left himself, doing good, from heaven, upon you, giving rain and fruitful seasons, filling, with food and gladness, your hearts.
Even these things, saying, scarcely restrained they the multitudes from offering sacrifice unto them.
But there came thither, from Antioch and Iconium, Jews, and, persuading the multitudes, and stoning Paul, they dragged him outside the city, supposing him to be dead.
Howbeit, the disciples surrounding him, he rose up, and entered into the city. And, on the morrow, he went forth, with Barnabas, unto Derbe.
Delivering the good news unto that city also, and making a good number of disciples, they returned unto Lystra, and unto Iconium, and unto Antioch,—
confirming the souls of the disciples, beseeching them to abide in the faith, and [declaring] that, through many tribulations, must we enter into the kingdom of God.
Moreover, appointing unto them by vote, in each assembly, elders, praying with fastings, they commended them unto the Lord on whom they had believed.
And, passing through Pisidia, they came into Pamphylia;
and, speaking in Perga the word, they came down unto Attalia;
and, from thence, they set sail for Antioch, whence they had been given up unto the favour of God for the work which they had fulfilled.
And, when they had arrived and gathered together the assembly, they began recounting how many things God had done with them, and that he had opened, unto the nations, a door of faith.
And they spent no little time with the disciples.