In the beginning the Word was; and the Word was with God; and the Word was God.
He was in the beginning with God;
through him all things came into being, and nothing came into being apart from him.
That which came into being in him was life; and the life was the light of humanity;
and the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness never overpowered it.
There appeared a man sent from God, whose name was John;
he came as a witness — to bear witness to the light so that through him everyone might believe.
He was not the light, but he came to bear witness to the light.
That was the true light which enlightens everyone coming into the world.
He was in the world; and through him the world came into being — yet the world did not know him.
He came to his own — yet his own did not receive him.
But to all who did receive him he gave power to become children of God — to those who believe in his name.
For not to natural conception, nor to human instincts, nor to human will did they owe the new life, but to God.
And the Word became human, and lived among us, (We saw his glory — the glory of the Only Son sent from the Father), full of love and truth.
(John bears witness to him; he cried aloud — for it was he who spoke — “‘He who is coming’ after me is now before me, for he was ever first”);
out of his fullness we have all received some gift, gift after gift of love;
for the law was given through Moses, love and truth came through Jesus Christ.
No one has ever yet seen God; God the Only Son, who is ever with the Father — He has revealed him.
When the religious authorities in Jerusalem sent some Priests and Levites to ask John — “Who are you?”,
he told them clearly and simply: “I am not the Christ.”
“What then?” they asked. “Are you Elijah?”   “No,” he said, “I am not.”   “Are you ‘the prophet’?” He answered, “No.”
“Who then are you?” they continued; “tell us so that we have an answer to give to those who have sent us. What do you say about yourself?”
“I,” he answered, “am —  ‘The voice of one crying aloud in the wilderness — “make a straight road for the Lord”’,  as the prophet Isaiah said.”
These men had been sent from the Pharisees;
and their next question was: “Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Christ or Elijah or ‘the prophet’?”
John’s answer was — “I baptize with water, but among you stands one whom you do not know;
he is coming after me, yet I am not worthy even to unfasten his sandal.”
This happened at Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day John saw Jesus coming towards him, and exclaimed: “Here is the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
I was taking about him when I said ‘After me there is coming a man who ranks ahead of me, because before I was born he already was.’
I did not know who he was, but I have come baptizing with water to make him known to Israel.”
John also said:   “I saw the Spirit come down from heaven like a dove and rest on him.
I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water, he said to me ‘He on whom you see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him — he it is who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.’
This I have seen myself, and I have declared my belief that he is the Son of God.”
The next day, when John was standing with two of his disciples,
he looked at Jesus as he passed and exclaimed: “There is the Lamb of God!”
The two disciples heard him say this, and followed Jesus.
But Jesus turned round, and saw them following. “What are you looking for?”he asked. “Rabbi,” they answered (or, as we should say, ‘teacher’), “where are you staying?”
“Come, and you will see,”he replied. So they went, and saw where he was staying, and spent that day with him.   It was then about four in the afternoon.
One of the two, who heard what John said and followed Jesus, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
He first found his own brother Simon, and said to him: “We have found the Messiah!” (a word which means ‘Christ,’ or ‘Consecrated’.)
Then he brought him to Jesus. Looking straight at him, Jesus said: “You are Simon, the son of John; you will be called Cephas”(which means ‘Peter,’ or ‘Rock’).
The following day Jesus decided to leave for Galilee. He found Philip, and said to him: “Follow me.”
Philip was from Bethsaida, the same town as Andrew and Peter.
He found Nathanael and said to him: “We have found him of whom Moses wrote in the law, and of whom the prophets also wrote — Jesus of Nazareth, Joseph’s son!”
“Can anything good come out of Nazareth?” asked Nathanael. “Come and see,” replied Philip.
When Jesus saw Nathanael coming towards him, he said: “Here is a true Israelite, in whom there is no deceit!”
“How do you know me?” asked Nathanael. “Even before Philip called you,”replied Jesus, “when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.”
“Rabbi,” Nathanael exclaimed, “you are the Son of God, you are king of Israel!”
“Do you believe in me,”asked Jesus, “because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree? You will see greater things than those!
In truth I tell you,”he added, “you will all see heaven open, and ‘the angels of God ascending and descending’ on the Son of Man.”