And the third day a wedding occurred in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
And Jesus also was invited, and his disciples, to the wedding.
And having lacked wine the mother of Jesus says to him, They have no wine.
And Jesus says to her, What is with me and with thee, woman? My hour is not yet here.
His mother says to the helpers, Whatever he may say to you, do.
Now there were six stone water pots laying there in accordance with the purification of the Jews, containing two or three measures each.
Jesus says to them, Fill the water pots with water. And they filled them until over.
And he says to them, Draw out now, and carry to the feast-ruler. And they carried.
And when the feast-ruler tasted the water that became wine, and had not known from where it was (but the helpers who drew the water had known), the feast-ruler called the bridegroom,
and says to him, Every man sets out the good wine first, and when they drank much, then the lesser. Thou have kept the good wine until now.
This is the beginning of the signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and he manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him.
After this he went down to Capernaum, he and his mother and his brothers and his disciples. And they remained there not many days.
And the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And he found sitting in the temple those who sell oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers.
And having made a whip from cords, he drove all out from the temple, both the sheep and the oxen. And he poured out the coins of the moneychangers, and turned over their tables.
And he said to those who sell the doves, Take these things from here. Make not my Father's house a house of merchandise.
And his disciples remembered that it is written, Zeal for thy house will consume me.
The Jews therefore answered, and said to him, What sign do thou show us since thou do these things?
Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
The Jews therefore said, This temple was forty-six years being built, and will thou raise it up in three days?
But that man spoke about the temple of his body.
When therefore he was raised from the dead his disciples remembered that he spoke this, and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus said.
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name seeing his signs that he did.
But Jesus did not trust himself to them, because he knew all men,
and because he had no need that any man should testify about man, for he himself knew what was in man.