[But] take heed, that ye do not, your righteousness, before men, to be gazed at by them,—otherwise at least, reward, have ye none, with your Father who is in the heavens.
When, therefore, thou mayest be doing an alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, just as, the hypocrites, do in the synagogues and in the streets—that they may be glorified by men,—Verily, I say unto you, they are getting back their reward.
But, thou, when doing an alms, let not, thy left hand, know what thy right hand is doing;
that thine alms may be in secret,—and, thy Father, who seeth in secret, will give it back to thee.
And, when ye may be praying, ye shall not be as the hypocrites, because they love, in the synagogues, and at the corners of the broad ways, to take their stand and pray, that they may shine before men; Verily, I say unto you, they are getting back their reward.
But, thou, when thou wouldest pray, enter into thy closet, and, fastening thy door, pray unto thy Father who is in secret,—and, thy Father who seeth in secret, will reward thee.
And, being at prayer, use not vain repetitions, just like the nations,—for they think, that, in their much speaking, they shall be hoard;
do not, therefore, make yourselves like them, for [God] your Father knoweth of what things ye have, need, before ye ask him.
Thus, therefore pray, ye: Our Father, who art in the heavens,—Hallowed be thy name,
Come may thy kingdom,—Accomplished be thy will, as in heaven, also on earth:
Our needful bread, give us, this day;
And forgive us our debts, as, we also, have forgiven our debtors;
And bring us not into temptation, but rescue us from the evil one.
For, if ye forgive men their faults, Your Father who is in the heavens, will forgive, even you;
But, if ye forgive not men [their faults], neither will your Father forgive, your faults.
And, when ye may he fasting, become not ye, as the hypocrites, of sullen countenance,—for they darken their looks, that they may appear, unto men, to be fasting: Verily, I say unto you, they are getting back their reward.
But, when, thou, art fasting, anoint thy head, and, thy face, wash,—
that thou do not appear, unto men, to be fasting, but to thy Father who is in secret,—and, thy Father who seeth in secret, will reward thee.
Be not laying up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where, moth and rust, do tarnish, and where, thieves, dig through and steal;
but be laying up or yourselves treasures in heaven, where, neither moth nor rust, doth tarnish, and where, thieves, dig not through nor steal:
for, where, thy treasure, is, there, will be, thy heart [also].
The lamp of the body, is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body, shall be, lighted up;
But, if thine eye be, evil, thy whole body, shall be, in the dark;—if therefore, the light which is in thee, is, darkness, the darkness, how great!
No one, unto two masters, can be in service; for either, the one, he will hate, and, the other ,love, or, one, he will hold to, and, the other, despise: Ye cannot be in service, unto God, and, unto Riches.
For this cause, I say unto you: Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat [or what ye shall drink],—or for your body, what ye shall put on: Is not, the life, more than, the food? And, the body, than, the raiment?
Observe intently, the birds of the heaven,—that they neither sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet, your heavenly Father, feedeth, them: Are no, ye, much better than, they?
But who from among you, being anxious, can add to his stature one cubit?
And, about clothing, why are ye anxious? Consider well the lilies of the field, how they grow,—they toil not neither do they spin;
And yet, I say unto you, not even Solomon, in all his glory, was arrayed like, one of these!
Now, if the grass of the field—which to-day, is, and, to-morrow, into an oven, is cast—God thus adorneth, not much rather, you, little of faith?
Do not then be anxious saying, What shall we eat? or What shall we drink? or Wherewithal shall we be arrayed?
For, all these things, the nations, seek after,—for your heavenly Father, knoweth, that ye are needing, all these things.
But be seeking first, the kingdom and its righteousness,—and, all these things, shall be added unto you.
Do not, then, be anxious for the morrow; for the morrow, will be anxious, for itself: Sufficient for the day, is the evil thereof.