This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God he made him,
male and female he created them, and blessed them, and called their name Man, in the day when they were created.
And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begot a son in his own likeness, according to his image, and called his name Seth.
And the days of Adam were eight hundred years after he begot Seth. And he begot sons and daughters.
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.
And Seth lived a hundred and five years, and begot Enosh.
And Seth lived eight hundred and seven years after he begot Enosh, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died.
And Enosh lived ninety years, and begot Kenan.
And Enosh lived eight hundred and fifteen years after he begot Kenan, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years, and he died.
And Kenan lived seventy years, and begot Mahalalel.
And Kenan lived eight hundred and forty years after he begot Mahalalel, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.
And Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, and begot Jared.
And Mahalalel lived eight hundred and thirty years after he begot Jared, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died.
And Jared lived a hundred sixty-two years, and begot Enoch.
And Jared lived eight hundred years after he begot Enoch, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years, and he died.
And Enoch lived sixty-five years, and begot Methuselah.
And Enoch walked with God after he begot Methuselah three hundred years, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years.
And Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him.
And Methuselah lived a hundred eighty-seven years, and begot Lamech.
And Methuselah lived seven hundred eighty-two years after he begot Lamech, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, and he died.
And Lamech lived a hundred eighty-two years, and begot a son.
And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, because of the ground which Jehovah has cursed.
And Lamech lived five hundred ninety-five years after he begot Noah, and begot sons and daughters.
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, and he died.
And Noah was five hundred years old. And Noah begot Shem, Ham, and Japheth.