Now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the passover, was at hand.
And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the people.
But Satan entered into Judas surnamed Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve.
And he went away, and conferred with the chief priests and the captains how he might deliver him up to them.
And they were glad, and agreed to give him money.
And he consented, and sought an opportunity to deliver him up to them without tumult.
Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must be killed.
And he sent Peter and John, saying: Go, make ready the passover for us, that we may eat it.
They said to him: Where dost thou wish that we make it ready?
And he said to them: Behold, as you go into the city, there shall meet you a man carrying a pitcher of water; follow him into the house that he enters;
and say to the master of the house: The Teacher says to you, Where is the room in which I may eat the passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room furnished; there make ready.
And they went, and found as he had said to them; and they made ready the passover.
And when the hour had come, he reclined at table, and the twelve apostles with him.
And he said to them: I have greatly desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer.
For I say to you, I will eat of it no more till it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said: Take this, and divide it among yourselves;
for I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine till the kingdom of God has come.
And he took bread, and gave thanks; and he broke, and gave it to them, saying: This is my body, which is given for you: do this in remembrance of me.
In like manner also, the cup, after he had supped, saying: This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you.
But, behold, the hand of him that delivers me up is with me on the table.
And the Son of man goes, as it is determined; but alas for that man by whom he is delivered up.
And they began to inquire among themselves, which of them it could be that was about to do this thing.
And there had been also a contention among them, which of them was thought to be the greatest.
And he said to them: The kings of the nations have dominion over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called benefactors.
But you shall not be so; but let the greatest among you be as the younger, and him that is chief, as he that serves.
For which is greater, he that reclines at table, or he that serves? Is not he that reclines at table? But I am among you as one that serves.
You are they that have continued with me in my trials;
and I appoint to you a kingdom, as my Father has appointed to me,
that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And the Lord said: Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded you apostles for himself, that he may sift you as wheat.
But I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith fail not. And when you have turned to me again, strengthen your brethren.
And he said to him: Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both to prison and to death.
He replied: I tell you, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day before you have three times denied that you know me.
And he said to them: When I sent you without purse and bag and sandals, did you need any thing? They replied: Nothing.
Then he said to them: But now, he that has a purse, let him take it, and likewise a bag; and he that has no sword, let him sell his mantle and buy one.
For I say to you, That even this which is written must be fulfilled in me: And he was numbered with transgressors. For the things concerning me have an end.
And they said: Lord, behold, here are two swords. He said to them: It is enough.
And after he had gone out, he went, according to custom, to the mount of Olives; and his disciples followed him.
And when he came to the place, he said to them: Pray, that you enter not into temptation.
And he withdrew from them about a stone’s throw, and kneeled down, and prayed,
saying: Father, if thou art willing that this cup should pass from me―yet, not my will, but thine be done.
And there appeared to him an angel from heaven, to strengthen him.
And he was in agony, and prayed more earnestly. And his sweat was like great drops of blood falling to the ground.
And he arose from prayer, and came to his disciples, and found them asleep for sorrow.
And he said to them: Why do you sleep? Arise and pray, lest you enter into temptation.
And while he was yet speaking, behold a multitude; and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and came near to Jesus to kiss him.
But Jesus said to him: Judas, do you deliver up the Son of man with a kiss?
When those who were about him saw what would be done, they said to him: Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
And a certain one of them struck the servant of the chief priest, and cut off his right ear.
And Jesus answered and said: Let this matter proceed thus far. And he touched his ear and healed him.
And Jesus said to the chief priests, and the captains of the temple, and the elders that had come against him: Have you come out with swords and clubs, as against a robber?
While I was daily with you in the temple, you did not lay hands on me. But this is your hour, and the authority of darkness.
And they took him, and led him away, and brought him into the house of the chief priest.   But Peter followed at a distance.
And when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the court, and had sat down together, Peter sat down in the midst of them.
And a certain maid-servant saw him sitting by the fire; and, looking intently at him, she said: This man also was with him.
But he denied, saying: Woman, I know him not.
And after a little, another saw him, and said: You also are one of them. Peter replied: Man, I am not.
And about one hour after, another confidently affirmed, saying: Of a truth, this man also was with him; for he is a Galilean.
But Peter said: Man, I know not what you say. And immediately, while he was speaking, the cock crew.
And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, that he had said to him, Before the cock crows, you will deny me three times.
And Peter went out and wept bitterly.
And the men that had Jesus in custody mocked him, and smote him.
And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him, saying: Give a response; who is it that struck you?
And many other impious things they said to him.
And when it was day, the elders of the people, the chief priests also and scribes, met together, and led him up to the Sanhedrin, and said:
If you are the Christ, tell us. But he said to them: If I tell you, you will not believe;
and if I also ask you a question, you will not answer me, nor let me go.
Henceforth the Son of man shall sit on the right hand of the power of God.
And they all said: You are, then, the Son of God? He said to them: You say that I am.
They replied: What further need have we of testimony? For we ourselves have heard from his own mouth.