To the chief musician. A Contemplation for the Sons of Korah. We have heard with our ears, O God; our fathers have told us the work You did in their days, in the days of old.
You drove out nations with Your hand and planted them. You brought evil on peoples and expelled them.
For they did not inherit the land with their own sword; yea, their own arm did not save them. But it was Your right hand and Your arm and the light of Your face, because You favored them.
You are He, my King, O God; command deliverances for Jacob.
Through You we will push our enemies; through Your name we will trample those who rise up against us.
For I will not trust in my bow, and my sword shall not save me.
But You have saved us from our adversaries and have put to shame those who hate us.
We boast in God all the day long; and we praise Your name forever. Selah.
Now You have cast us off and have shamed us. And You do not go forth with our armies.
You make us turn back from the oppressor; yea, our haters plunder for themselves.
You have given us like sheep for food and have scattered us among the nations.
For no gain You have sold Your people, and You are not increased by their price.
You made us a disgrace to our neighbors, a scorn and a mockery to those around us.
You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
My humiliation is before me all the day; yea, the shame of my face covers me,
because of the slanderer's voice and the blasphemer, before the face of the enemy and avenger.
All this has come upon us, and we have not forgotten You nor dealt falsely with Your covenant.
Our heart has not turned back, and our steps have not swerved from Your way,
though You have crushed us in the place of jackals and covered us over with the death-shade.
If we have forgotten the name of our God, and have spread our hands to an alien god,
shall not God search out this? For He knows the secrets of the heart.
Yea, for Your sake we are slain all the day long; we are counted as sheep of slaughter.
Be aroused! Why do You sleep, O God? Awake! Do not cast us off forever.
Why do You hide Your face and forget our affliction and distress?
For our soul bows down to the dust; our belly holds fast to the earth.
Arise for our help and redeem us for the sake of Your mercy.