Now the apostles and the brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles also received the word of God.
And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, the men of circumcision contended against him,
saying, Thou went in to uncircumcised men, having also eaten with them.
But when Peter began, he expounded to them in order, saying,
I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, a certain container descending, as a great sheet being lowered from heaven by four corners, and it came as far as to me,
having gazed at which, I was examining. And I saw the four footed things of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the creeping things, and the birds of the sky.
And I heard a voice saying to me, Having risen, Peter, kill and eat.
But I said, Not so, Lord, because nothing profane or unclean has ever entered into my mouth.
But a voice answered me for a second time out of heaven, What God has cleansed, thou shall not make profane.
And this happened thrice, and all were drawn up again into heaven.
And behold, immediately three men stood at the house in which I was, who were sent from Caesarea to me.
And the Spirit told me to go with them, doubting nothing. And these six brothers also went with me, and we entered into the man's house.
And he informed us how he saw the agent in his house, who stood and said to him, Send forth men to Joppa, and summon Simon, the man surnamed Peter,
who will speak sayings to thee, by which thou will be saved, thou and all thy house.
And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, just as also on us at the beginning.
And I remembered the saying of the Lord, how he said, John indeed immersed in water, but ye will be immersed in the Holy Spirit.
If then God gave to them the identical gift as also to us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, but what power was I to hinder God?
And when they heard these things, they relaxed and glorified God, saying, Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life.
Indeed therefore those who were scattered abroad from the persecution that occurred against Stephen passed through as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to none except Jews only.
And some of them were men, Cyprians and Cyrenians, who, having come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching good news, the Lord Jesus.
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord.
And the word about them was heard in the ears of the church at Jerusalem, and they dispatched Barnabas to pass through as far as Antioch,
who, having arrived, and having seen the grace of God, rejoiced. And he encouraged all, with purpose of heart, to remain in the Lord.
Because he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a considerable multitude was added to the Lord.
And Barnabas departed to Tarsus to seek Saul,
and when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came to pass a whole year for them to be assembled in the congregation, and to teach a considerable multitude, and to call the disciples Christians, first at Antioch.
Now in these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
And one of them named Agabus, after standing up, signified by the Spirit there was going be a great famine in the whole world, which also happened under Claudius Caesar.
And the disciples, as any man prospered, determined, each of them regarding aid, to send to the brothers who dwell in Judea,
which also they did, having sent it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.