In those days, the crowd being very great and having nothing to eat, Jesus called His disciples and said to them,
I have compassion on the crowd because they have now been with Me three days and have nothing to eat.
And if I send them away fasting to their own houses, they will faint in the way. For many of them come from afar.
And His disciples answered Him, From where can a man satisfy these with loaves here in the wilderness?
And He asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven.
And He commanded the people to recline on the ground. And He took the seven loaves and gave thanks, and He broke and gave to His disciples to set before them. And they set them before the people.
And they had a few fish. And He blessed and commanded them to also serve these.
So they ate and were filled. And they took up over and above seven lunch baskets of fragments.
And they who had eaten were about four thousand. And He sent them away.
And immediately He entered into a boat with His disciples and came into the region of Dalmanutha.
And the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with Him, seeking a sign from Heaven from Him, tempting Him.
And He sighed deeply in His spirit and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say to you, There shall no sign be given to this generation.
And He left them. And entering into the boat again, He departed to the other side.
And the disciples had forgotten to take loaves, and they did not have more than one loaf in the boat with them.
And He charged them, saying, Take heed! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the leaven of Herod.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no loaves.
And knowing it, Jesus said to them, Why do you reason that it is because you have no loaves? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Have you still hardened your heart?
Do you have eyes and do not see? Do you have ears and do not hear? And do you not remember?
When I broke the five loaves among five thousand, how many hand baskets full of fragments did you take up? They said to Him, Twelve.
And when the seven among four thousand, how many lunch baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said, Seven.
And He said to them, How you do not understand?
And He came to Bethsaida. And they brought a blind man to Him and begged Him to touch him.
And He took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when He had spat on his eyes and had put His hands on him, He asked Him if he saw anything.
And he looked up and said, I see men as trees, walking.
And after that He put His hands again on his eyes and made him look up. And he was restored and saw all clearly.
And He sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town.
And Jesus and His disciples went out into the towns of Caesarea Philippi. And in the way He asked His disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am?
And they answered, John the Baptist. But others say Elijah, and others say one of the prophets.
And He said to them, But who do you say that I am? And Peter answered and said to Him, You are the Christ.
And He charged them that they should tell no one of Him.
And He began to teach them that the Son of man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.
And He spoke that saying openly. And Peter took Him and began to rebuke Him.
But when He had turned around and looked on His disciples, He rebuked Peter, saying, Go behind Me, Satan! For you do not mind the things of God, but of the things of men.
And calling near the crowd with His disciples, He said to them, Whoever will come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me.
For whoever will save his life shall lose it; but whoever shall lose his life for My sake and the gospel's, he shall save it.
For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?
Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
Therefore whoever shall be ashamed of Me and of My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of man shall also be ashamed of him when He comes in the glory of His Father with the holy angels.