Thus, saith Yahweh, to his Anointed, to Cyrus—Whose right hand I have firmly grasped To subdue before him, nations, And the loins of kings, will I ungird,—To open, before him, the two-leaved doors, And, the gates, shall not be shut:
I, before thee, will go, And the hills, will I level—The doors of bronze, will I break in pieces, And the bars of iron, will I cut asunder;
Then will I give thee The treasures of darkness, Even the hoards of hidden places,—That thou mayest get to know That I—Yahweh, who am calling thee by thy name, am the God of Israel.
For the sake of my servant Jacob, Even Israel my chosen Therefore have I called unto thee by thy name, I give thee a title though thou hast not known me,—
I, am Yahweh, and there is none else, Besides me, there is no God,—I gird thee, though thou hast not known me:
That men may get to know. From the rising of the sun And from the west. That there is none besides me,—I, am Yahweh, and there is none else:
Forming light and creating darkness, Making prosperity, and creating misfortune,—I—Yahweh, who doeth all these.
Let the drops fall ye heavens, from above, Yea, let, the skies, pour down righteousness,—Let the earth open and let them bear as their fruit—deliverance And let, justice, spring forth therewith, I—Yahweh, have created it.
Alas for him who contendeth with his Fashioner,—A potsherd, [should contend] with the potsherds of the ground! Shall it be said by the clay, unto him that is fashioning it, What wouldst thou make? Or, thy work say, of thee, He hath no hands?
Alas, for one who saith to a father, What begettest thou? Or to a woman What dost thou bring forth?
Thus, saith, Yahweh, The Holy One of Israel And his Fashioner, As to things to come, they have asked me, Concerning my sons and concerning the work of my hands, they would command me!
I, made the earth, And man upon it, I created,—I—mine own hands, stretched out the heavens, And all their host, I commanded:
I, have roused him up in righteousness, And all his roads, will I level,—He, shall build my city, And my captives, shall he let go, Not for price, nor for bribe, Saith Yahweh of hosts.
Thus, saith Yahweh—The produce of Egypt and the gain of Ethiopia, and the Sabeans, men of great stature, Unto thee, shall come over, And thine, shall they become, After thee, shall they journey, In chains, shall they come over,—And unto thee, shall they bow down Unto thee, shall they pray [saying],—Surely, in thee, is a GOD And there is none else—no, God!
Surely, thou, art a GOD utterly hiding thyself,—O God of Israel, able to save!
They have turned pale and even been put to shame, all of them,—Together have they gone into disgrace, have the makers of images:
Israel, hath been delivered by Yahweh, with an age-abiding deliverance,—Ye shall neither turn pale nor he put to shame, unto the ages of futurity,.
For, Thus, saith Yahweh, Who created the heavens God himself! Who fashioned the earth—And made it Himself, established it, …Not a waste, created he it To be dwelt in, he fashioned it, …I, am Yahweh, and there is none else:
Not in secret, have I spoken In a place of the earth that is dark,—I have not said unto the seed of Jacob, In a waste, seek ye me,—I, am Yahweh, Speaking the thing that is right, Declaring the things that are just.
Assemble yourselves and come Draw near together, ye escaped of the nations,—They know not Who carry the wood of their carved image, And pray unto a GOD who cannot save.
Tell ye—and bring near, Yea let them take counsel, together,—Who let this be known aforetime. In time past, declared it? Was it not, I—Yahweh? And there is none else that is God besides me, A GOD, righteous and ready to save, There is none, besides me!
Turn unto me—and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth,—For, I, am GOD, and there is none else.
By myself, have I sworn, Gone forth out of my mouth, is righteousness as a decree And shall not turn back,—That, unto myself, Shall bow every knee, Shall swear every tongue:
Only in Yahweh—for me, Hath one said, Is there righteousness and strength, Unto him, shall come and turn pale—All who have been incensed against him:
In Yahweh, shall be justified and shall boast themselves—All the seed of Israel.