After these things Jesus went to the other side of the sea of Galilee of Tiberias.
And a great multitude followed him because they saw his signs, which he did on those who are infirmed.
And Jesus went up onto the mountain, and he sat there with his disciples.
Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.
Jesus therefore having lifted up his eyes, and having seen that a great multitude comes to him, he says to Philip, From where will we buy loaves, so that these may eat?
But he said this testing him, for he himself knew what he was going to do.
Philip answered him, Loaves of two hundred denarii of bread are not sufficient for them, so that each of them may take a little something.
One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, says to him,
There is one child here that has five barley loaves and two fishes, but what are these for so many?
And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.
And Jesus took the loaves, and having expressed thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sitting down, likewise also of the fishes as much as they wanted.
And when they were filled, he says to his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain over, so that not anything may be lost.
So they gathered them up, and filled twelve baskets of fragments from the five barley loaves that remained over from those who have eaten.
When therefore the men saw what sign Jesus did, they said, This really is the prophet who comes into the world.
Jesus therefore having perceived that they are going to come and seize him, so that they might make him king, departed onto the mountain himself alone.
And when it became evening his disciples went down to the sea,
and having entered into the boat, they were going to the other side of the sea toward Capernaum. And it had already become dark, and Jesus had not come to them.
And the sea was being raised by a great wind blowing.
Therefore having impelled forward about twenty-five or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and coming near to the boat, and they were afraid.
But he says to them, It is I, fear not.
They were willing therefore to receive him into the boat, and straightaway the boat came to be at the land to which they were going.
On the morrow the multitude that stood on the other side of the sea, having seen that there was no other boat there except that one in which his disciples entered, and that Jesus did not go with his disciples into the boat, but his disciples went away alone,
and other boats came from Tiberias near the place where they ate the bread after the Lord expressed thanks,
when therefore the multitude saw that Jesus is not there, nor his disciples, they entered into the boats, and came to Capernaum seeking Jesus.
And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did thou become here?
Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, ye seek me not because ye saw signs, but because ye ate of the loaves and were filled.
Work not for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of man will give to you, for God the Father put a seal on this man.
They said to him therefore, What shall we do that we may work the works of God?
Jesus answered, and said to them, This is the work of God, that ye believe in that man whom he has sent.
They said to him therefore, What sign do thou, that we may see and believe in thee? What do thou work?
Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, just as it is written, He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.
Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread out of heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread out of heaven.
For the bread of God is he who comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world.
They said to him therefore, Lord, always give us this bread.
Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will, no, not hunger, and he who believes in me will, no, not ever thirst.
But also I said to you, that ye have seen me, and yet do not believe.
All that the Father gives me will come to me, and he who comes to me I will, no, not cast out.
Because I have come down from heaven, not so that I might do my will, but the will of him who sent me.
And this is the will of the Father who sent me, that of all that he has given me I would not lose from it, but I will raise it up at the last day.
And this is the will of him who sent me, that every man who sees the Son, and believes in him, may have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
The Jews therefore murmured about him because he said, I am the bread that came down out of heaven.
And they said, Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? Therefore how does this man say, I have come down out of heaven?
Jesus therefore answered and said to them, Murmur not among each other.
No man can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up in the last day.
It is written in the prophets, And they will all be taught of God. Every man who hears from the Father, and having learned, comes to me.
Not that any man has seen the Father, except he who is from God. This man has seen the Father.
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in me has eternal life.
I am the bread of life.
Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.
This is the bread that comes down out of heaven, that a man may eat of it, and not die.
I am the living bread, having come down out of heaven. If any man eats of this bread, he will live into the age. And also, the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
The Jews therefore contended with each other, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat?
Jesus therefore said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless ye eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, ye have no life in yourselves.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
For my flesh is truly food, and my blood is truly drink.
He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood dwells in me, and I in him.
Just as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, also he who eats me, that man will also live because of me.
This is the bread that came down out of heaven, not as your fathers ate the manna and died. He who eats this bread will live into the age.
He said these things in a synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
Therefore many of his disciples having heard, said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it?
But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples are grumbling about this, said to them, Does this cause you to stumble?
Then if ye should see the Son of man ascending where he was before?
It is the spirit that makes alive. The flesh benefits nothing. The sayings that I speak to you are spirit, are life.
Nevertheless, there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus had known from the beginning who they are who do not believe, and who he is who will betray him.
And he said, Because of this I have said to you that no man is able to come to me, if it is not given to him from my Father.
From this, many of his disciples went back at these things, and walked no more with him.
Jesus said therefore to the twelve, Do ye not also want to go?
Simon Peter therefore answered him, Lord, to whom will we go? Thou have sayings of eternal life.
And we have believed and know that thou are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you the twelve, and one of you is a devil?
But he spoke of Judas Iscariot son of Simon. For this man, being one of the twelve, was going to betray him.