And Saul was consenting to the doing away of him. And in that day a great persecution took place on the church which was in Jerusalem; and all were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
And devout men together carried Stephen and made a great lamentation over him.
But Saul ravaged the church, entering house by house, dragging both men and women, he delivered them to prison.
Then, indeed, the ones who had been scattered passed through, preaching the gospel, the Word.
And going down to a city of Samaria, Philip proclaimed Christ to them.
And with one passion the crowds heeded that being said by Philip when they heard and saw the many miracles which he did.
For many came out from those having unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice. And many who had been paralyzed and lame were healed.
And great joy was in that city.
But a certain man named Simon had long been conjuring in the city and amazing the nation of Samaria, claiming himself to be some great one.
All were paying attention to him , from small to great, saying, This one is the power of God, which is great.
And they were paying attention to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his conjuring.
But when they believed Philip preaching the gospel, the things concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
And Simon himself also believed, and being baptized was continuing steadfastly with Philip. And seeing miracles and mighty works happening, he was amazed.
And the apostles in Jerusalem hearing that Samaria had received the Word of God, they sent Peter and John to them,
who going down prayed concerning them so that they may receive the Holy Spirit.
For He had not yet fallen on any one of them, but they were only being baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then they laid hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
But Simon having seen that the Holy Spirit is given through the laying on of the hands of the apostles, he offered them money,
saying, Give to me also this authority that to whomever I may lay on the hands he may receive the Holy Spirit.
But Peter said to him, May your silver be with you into perdition, because you thought to get the gift of God through money.
There is neither part nor lot to you in this matter, for your heart is not upright before the face of God.
Repent, then, from this wickedness of yours, and petition God if perhaps you will be forgiven the thought of your heart.
For I see you being in the gall of bitterness and a bundle of unrighteousness.
And answering Simon said, You petition to the Lord for me, so that nothing of which you have spoken may come on me.
Then indeed having earnestly testified and having spoken the Word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, even having announced the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Rise up and go along south on the highway going down to Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a deserted place .
And rising up he went. And, behold, an Ethiopian man, a eunuch, one in power with Candace the queen of Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come to Jerusalem to worship!
And he was returning. And sitting on his chariot he read the prophet Isaiah.
And the Spirit said to Philip, Go near and join yourself to this chariot.
And running near Philip heard him reading the prophet Isaiah, and said, Indeed, do you know what you are reading?
But he said, How should I be able except someone shall guide me? And he called Philip near, to come up to sit with him.
And the content of the Scripture which he was reading was this: "He was led as a sheep to slaughter, and as a lamb voiceless before the one shearing it, so He does not open His mouth.
In His humiliation His judgment was taken away; and who will recount His generation? For His life is taken away from the earth." Isa. 53:7, 8
And answering the eunuch said to Philip, I ask you, about whom does the prophet say this? About himself, or about some other one?
And opening his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, Philip announced the gospel to him, Jesus.
And as they were going along the highway they came on some water. And the eunuch said, Behold, water! What prevents me from being baptized?
And Philip said, If you believe from all the heart, it is lawful. And answering he said, I believe Jesus Christ to be the Son of God.
And he commanded the chariot to stand still. And both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.
But when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip. And the eunuch did not see him any more; for he went his way rejoicing.
And Philip was found at Azotus. And passing through he preached the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea.