Hear, O Israel, you shall cross over the Jordan today, to go in to expel nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities great and walled up to the heavens;
a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you know, and of whom you have heard it said, Who can stand before the sons of Anak?
And know today that Jehovah your God is He who passes over before you as a consuming fire; He will destroy them, and He will bring them down before you; so you shall drive them out and make them to perish quickly, as Jehovah has spoken to you.
Do not say in your heart, when Jehovah your God has cast them out from before you, saying, Jehovah has brought me in to possess this land for my righteousness. But say, Jehovah drives them out from before you because of the wickedness of those nations.
It is not for your righteousness or for the uprightness of your heart that you go to possess their land. But Jehovah your God is expelling them from before you because of the wickedness of these nations; and in order to establish the word which Jehovah has sworn to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
And you shall know that Jehovah your God is not giving you this good land, to possess it, for your righteousness; for you are a stiffnecked people.
Remember; do not forget how you made Jehovah your God angry in the wilderness; even from the day that you came out of the land of Egypt until you came into this place you have been rebellious against Jehovah.
Even in Horeb you made Jehovah angry; and Jehovah breathed angrily against you, to destroy you.
When I went up into the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, tablets of the covenant which Jehovah cut with you, and I remained in the mountain forty days and forty nights (I did not eat bread nor did I drink water),
and Jehovah gave to me the two tablets of stone written with the finger of God, and on them was written according to all the words which Jehovah spoke with you in the mountain, out of the midst of the fire, in the day of the assembly;
then it happened, at the end of forty days and forty nights Jehovah gave the two tablets of stone to me, tablets of the covenant,
and Jehovah said to me, Rise up, go down quickly from here; for your people whom you have brought out of Egypt have acted corruptly; they have quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them; they have made themselves a casted image.
And Jehovah spoke to me, saying, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiffnecked people.
Let Me alone that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under the heavens; and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they.
And I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire, and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands;
and I looked; and, behold! You had sinned against Jehovah your God; you had made a casted calf for yourselves; you had quickly turned out of the way which Jehovah had commanded you.
And I took hold of the two tablets and threw them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes.
And I fell down before Jehovah, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I ate no bread and drank no water; because of all your sins which you had sinned, in doing that which was evil in the eyes of Jehovah, to make Him angry.
For I was afraid because of the anger and the fury with which Jehovah had been angry against you, to destroy you. And Jehovah listened to me at this time also.
And Jehovah was very angry with Aaron, to destroy him, and I also prayed for Aaron at that time.
And I took your sin, the calf which you made, and I burned it with fire, and beat it, grinding it very small until it was as fine as dust; and I threw its dust into the torrent that came down out of the mountain.
And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at The Graves of Lust you provoked Jehovah to anger.
And when Jehovah sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given to you, then you rebelled against the mouth of Jehovah your God, and did not believe Him, nor listen to His voice.
You have been rebels against Jehovah from the day that I knew you.
And I fell down before Jehovah the forty days and the forty nights as I had thrown myself down before , for Jehovah had said to destroy you.
And I prayed to Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, do not destroy Your people, and Your inheritance whom You have redeemed in Your greatness; whom You have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
Remember Your servants, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; do not look to the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness nor to their sin,
lest the land from which You brought us say, Because Jehovah was not able to bring them into the land which He promised them; and, because He hated them, He has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.
And they are Your people, and Your inheritance, whom You have brought out by Your great power, and by Your stretched out arm.