And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first [day] of the month, [that] the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
Son of man, because Tyre has said concerning Jerusalem, Aha, [it is well that] she is broken who is the gate of the peoples; she is turned unto me; I shall be filled; and she [shall be] deserted:
therefore thus hath the Lord GOD said; Behold, I [am] against thee, O Tyre, and will cause many nations to come up against thee as the sea causes its waves to come up.
And they shall demolish the walls of Tyre and destroy her towers; I will also scrape her dust from her and make her like the top of a rock.
It shall be [a place for] the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea: for I have spoken, said the Lord GOD, and it shall be spoiled by the Gentiles.
And her daughters who [are] in the field shall be slain by the sword; and they shall know that I [am] the LORD.
For thus hath the Lord GOD said; Behold, I bring upon Tyre Nebuchadrezzar, king of Babylon, [a] king of kings, from the north, with horses and with chariots and with horsemen and companies and many people.
He shall slay with the sword thy daughters who [are] in the field; and he shall make a fort against thee and cast a mount against thee and lift up the buckler against thee.
And he shall set engines of war against thy walls, and with his hammers he shall break down thy towers.
By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover thee; thy walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen and of the wheels, and of the chariots when he shall enter into thy gates as men enter through breaches into a destroyed city.
With the hoofs of his horses he shall tread down all thy streets; he shall slay thy people by the sword, and the statues of thy strength shall fall to the ground.
And they shall steal thy riches and make a spoil of thy merchandise; and they shall ruin thy walls and destroy thy precious houses: and they shall lay thy stones and thy timber and thy dust in the midst of the waters.
And I will cause the noise of thy songs to cease; and the sound of thy harps shall no longer be heard.
And I will make thee like the top of a rock: thou shalt be [a place] to spread nets upon; thou shalt never be built again; for I the LORD have spoken, said the Lord GOD.
Thus hath the Lord GOD said to Tyre: Certainly the isles shall shake at the sound of thy fall, when the wounded shall cry, when the slaughter shall be made in the midst of thee.
Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones and lay away their robes and put off their broidered garments: they shall clothe themselves with trembling; they shall sit upon the ground and shall tremble at [every] moment and be astonished at thee.
And they shall take up a lamentation for thee and say to thee, How didst thou perish, [that wast] inhabited in the seas? The renowned city, which wast strong in the sea, she and her inhabitants, who caused their terror [to be] on all those that dwell therein.
Now shall the isles tremble in the day of thy fall; yea, the isles that [are] in the sea shall be terrorized at thy end.
For thus hath the Lord GOD said: I shall make thee a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited; I shall cause the abyss to come up over thee and the many waters shall cover thee.
And I shall bring thee down with those that descend into the grave, with the people of the age, and shall set thee in the lowest part of the earth, as the deserts of old, with those that go down to the grave, that thou not be inhabited again; and I shall set glory in the land of the living;
I will turn thee into nothing, and thou [shalt be] no [more]; though thou be sought for, yet thou shalt never be found again, said the Lord GOD.: