Therefore, Christ having suffered for us in the flesh, also you arm yourselves with the same thought, that he suffering in the flesh has been made to rest from sin,
in order no longer to live in the lusts of men, but in the will of God the remaining time in the flesh.
For the time of life which is past is enough for us to have worked out the will of the nations, having gone on in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, parties, carousings, and abominable idolatries.
In these things they are surprised, that you are not running with them into the same excess of riot, blaspheming.
But they shall give account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
For to this end the gospel was preached also to the dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit.
But the end of all things has drawn near. Therefore be of sound mind, and be sensible to prayers.
And above all things have fervent love to yourselves, for love will cover a multitude of sins.
Be hospitable to one another, without grudging;
each one as he received a gift, ministering it to yourselves as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
If anyone speaks, let it be as the words of God. If anyone ministers, let him do it as of the ability which God gives, so that God may be glorified in all things through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory, and the might forever and ever. Amen.
Beloved, do not be astonished at the fiery trial which is to try you, as though a strange thing happened to you,
but rejoice according as you are partakers of Christ's suffering, so that when His glory shall be revealed, you may be glad also with exceeding joy.
If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of God and of glory rests on you. Truly according to them, He is blasphemed, but according to you He is glorified.
But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or a meddler in the affairs of others.
But if one suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God because of this.
For the time has come for the judgment to begin from the house of God. And if it first begins from us, what will be the end of those disobeying the gospel of God?
And if the righteous one is scarcely saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?
Therefore let those who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls in well-doing, as to a faithful Creator.