And this is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his death.
And he said: Jehovah came from Sinai, and rose up from Seir for them; He shone forth from Mount Paran, and He came from the myriads of holy ones. At his right hand a law of fire went forth to them.
Yes, He loves the peoples; all His holy ones are in Your hand; and they sit down at Your feet; He lifts up each at Your words.
Moses has commanded a law to us, an inheritance for the congregation of Jacob.
And he was king in Jeshurun, when the heads of the people assembled, the tribes of Israel.
Let Reuben live, and not die, and let his men be numbered.
And this for Judah: And he said, Hear the voice of Judah, O Jehovah, and bring him in to his people; his hands were much for him, and You shall be a help against his foes.
And of Levi he said, Your Thummim and your Urim are for your devout man whom You tested at Massah; You contended with him at the Waters of Strife;
who said of his father and his mother, I have not seen him. And he has not acknowledged his brothers, and did not know his own son, for they have kept Your word, and observed Your covenant.
They shall teach Your ordinances to Jacob, and Your law to Israel. They shall put incense at Your nostrils, and whole burnt offering on Your altar.
O Jehovah, bless his strength, and accept the work of his hands. Dash the loins of those rising against him, those who hate him, that they may not rise!
Of Benjamin he said, The beloved of Jehovah shall dwell securely beside Him, covering him all the day long; yea he shall dwell between His shoulders.
And of Joseph he said, Blessed of Jehovah be his land, with the best of the heavens, for the dew, for the deep crouching beneath;
and with the best of the produce of the sun, and with the best yield of the months;
and with the first of the ancient mountains, and with the best of the everlasting hills;
and with the best of the earth, and its fullness; and the good will of Him who dwelt in the Bush; let it come on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the consecrated one of his brothers.
His glory is as the first-born of his ox, and the horns of the wild ox are his horns; with them he shall butt the peoples together to the ends of the earth. And they are the myriads of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh.
And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, O Zebulun, in your going out, and O Issachar, in your tents;
to the mountains they call the peoples; there they shall offer righteous sacrifices for they shall suck the bounty of the seas, and treasures hidden in the sand.
And of Gad he said, Blessed is he who enlarges Gad; he shall live like a lioness, and shall tear the arm, also the crown.
And he eyes the first part for himself, for there was the portion of the lawgiver hidden; and he came with the rulers of the people; he executed the justice of Jehovah, and His judgments with Israel.
And of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's whelp; he shall leap from Bashan.
And of Naphtali he said, O Naphtali, satisfied with good will and full of the blessing of Jehovah; possess the west and the south.
And of Asher he said, Asher shall be blessed with sons; let him be accepted by his brothers, and dip his foot in oil.
May your shoe latches be iron and bronze, and your days as your strength.
None is like the God of Jeshurun, riding the heavens for your help, and the clouds in His majesty.
The God of old is a refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms. And He shall cast the enemy out from before you, and shall say, Destroy!
And Israel shall live alone in safety; the fountain of Jacob in a land of grain and wine; and his heavens drop down dew.
Blessed are you, O Israel! Who is like you? A people saved by Jehovah, the Shield of your help, and He who is the Sword of your excellency! And your enemies shall be found liars before you, and you shall tread on their high places.