And it happened afterward that Absalom prepared a chariot for himself, and horses, and fifty men running before him.
And Absalom rose up and stood by the side of the way of the gate And it happened that every man who had a cause to come to the king for judgment, Absalom called to him and said, Of what city are you? And he said, Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.
And Absalom said to him, Behold, your matters are good and right. And there is no listener to you from the king.
And Absalom said, Who shall make me a judge in the land, that every man who has a dispute, I will then declare him right, even with justice?
And it happened, when a man drew near to bow himself to him, he put out his hand and laid hold on him, and gave him a kiss.
And Absalom acted this way to all Israel who came in to the king for judgment. And Absalom stole the heart of the men of Israel.
And at the end of forty years, it happened, Absalom said to the king, Please let me go and I shall pay my vow that I have vowed to Jehovah, in Hebron.
For your servant has vowed a vow when I lived in Geshur in Syria, saying, If Jehovah shall surely bring me back to Jerusalem, then I shall serve Jehovah.
And the king said to him, Go in peace. And he rose up and went to Hebron.
And Absalom sent spies among all the tribes of Israel, saying, When you hear the sound of the ram's horn, then you shall say, Absalom is king in Hebron.
And two hundred men went out of Jerusalem with Absalom, chosen ones. And they went out in their simplicity and did not know anything.
And Absalom sent Ahithophel the Gilonite, a counselor of David, out of his city, out of Giloh, as he offered the sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong. And the people were going on and increasing with Absalom.
And a messenger came to David, saying, The hearts of the men of Israel have gone after Absalom.
And David said to all his servants who were with him in Jerusalem, Rise up, and we will flee; for we have no escape from the face of Absalom. Hurry to leave, that he not overtake us and bring evil down on us, and strike the city with the mouth of the sword.
And the king's servants said to the king, According to all that my lord the king desires, behold, your servants will do .
And the king went out, and all his household at his feet. And the king left ten women, concubines, to keep the house.
And the king went out, and all the people at his feet. And they stood still at the house farthest away.
And all his servants were passing on by his side, and all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men who came at his feet from Gath. These were passing on before the king.
And the king said to Ittai the Gittite, Why do you go, even you with us? Turn back and remain with the king, for you are an alien, and also you are an exile. Go to your place.
You came in yesterday and today. Should I make you go with us, to go while I go, where I go? Turn back and take your brothers with you in kindness and truth.
And Ittai replied to the king and said, As Jehovah lives, and my lord the king lives, surely in the place where my lord the king is, there your servant shall be, whether for death or for life.
And David said to Ittai, Go on and pass over. And Ittai the Gittite passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones with him.
And all the land was weeping with a loud voice. And all the people were passing over. And the king was passing over through the torrent Kidron, and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness.
And, behold, Zadok also came, and all the Levites with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God. And they set the ark of God down. And Abiathar went up until all the people finished passing on out of the city.
And the king said to Zadok, Take the ark of God back to the city. If I find grace in the eyes of Jehovah, then He will bring me back and show it and His dwelling place to me.
And if He says this, I have not delighted in you, behold, I am here. He shall do to me as seems good in His eyes.
And the king said to Zadok the priest, Are you a seer? Return to the city in peace, and your two sons with you, your son Ahimaaz, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar.
Behold, I will wait in the plain of the wilderness until word comes from you to report to me.
And Zadok and Abiathar took the ark of God back to Jerusalem. And they remained there.
And David was going up in the ascent of the olives, going up and weeping. And his head was covered, and he was going barefooted. And all the people who were with him each had covered his head, and had gone up, going up and weeping.
And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And David said, O Jehovah, I pray You, make the counsel of Ahithophel foolish.
And it happened as David had come to the top, there where he bowed to God. And, behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him, his tunic torn, and earth on his head.
And David said to him, If you pass on with me, then you shall be a burden to me.
But if you return to the city, and shall say to Absalom, I also will be your servant, O king; I was servant of your father before now; and now I am also your servant. Then you can break down the counsel of Ahithophel for me.
And do you not have there with you Zadok and Abiathar, the priests? And it shall be, you shall declare everything that you hear from the house of the king; you shall report to Zadok and to Abiathar, the priests.
Behold, there are with them their two sons, Ahimaaz to Zadok, and Jonathan to Abiathar. And you shall send to me by their hand anything that you hear.
And David's friend Hushai came into the city. And Absalom came into Jerusalem.