And the Pharisees were assembled to Him, also some of the scribes, coming from Jerusalem.
And seeing some of His disciples eating bread with unclean, that is unwashed hands, they found fault.
For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they immerse the hands with the fist, holding the tradition of the elders.
And coming from the market, they do not eat without immersing. And there are many other things which they received to hold: dippings of cups, and of utensils, and of copper vessels, and couches.
Then the Pharisees and scribes questioned Him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands?
And answering, He said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy concerning you, hypocrites; as it has been written: "This people honors Me with the lips, but their heart is far away from Me;
and in vain they worship Me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men." Isa. 29:13
For forsaking the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men: dippings of utensils and cups, and many other such like things you do.
And He said to them, Do you do well to set aside the commandment of God so that you may keep your tradition?
For Moses said, "Honor your father and your mother;" Ex. 20:12; Deut. 5:16 and, "The one speaking evil of father or mother, let him expire by death." Ex. 21:17
But you say, If a man says to his father or mother, Corban, (which is, A gift!) whatever you may profit by me.
And you no longer allow him to do anything for his father or mother,
making the Word of God of no effect by your tradition which you delivered. And many such like things you do.
And calling all the crowd near, He said to them, All hear Me and understand.
There is nothing from outside the man, having entered into him, which is able to defile him . But the things going out from him, those are the things defiling the man.
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
And when He entered into a house from the crowd, His disciples questioned Him about the parable.
And He said to them, Are you also so undiscerning? Do you not perceive that all that enters from the outside into the man is not able to defile him?
This is because it does not enter into his heart, but into the belly, and goes out into the wastebowl, purging all the foods.
And He said, That passing out of the man, it is the thing that defiles the man.
For from within, out of the heart of men, pass out the evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,
thefts, greedy desires, iniquities, deceit, lustful desires, a wicked eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness.
All these evil things pass out from within and defile the man.
And rising up from there, he went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And entering into the house, He desired no one to know, but He could not be hidden.
For hearing about Him, a woman came up, one whose daughter had an unclean spirit. And she fell down at His feet.
And the woman was a Greek, a Syro-phenocian by race. And she asked Him, that He would cast out the demon from her daughter.
And Jesus said to her, First, allow the children to be satisfied, for it is not good to take the children's bread and to throw it to the dogs.
But she answered and said to Him, Yes, Lord; for even the dogs under the table eat from the crumbs of the children.
And He said to her, Because of this word, go. The demon has gone out from your daughter.
And going away to her house, she found the demon had gone out, and her daughter was laid on the couch.
And again going out from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, He came to the Sea of Galilee, in the midst of the borders of Decapolis.
And they brought a deaf one to Him, hardly speaking. And they begged Him, that He put His hand on him.
And taking him away, apart from the crowd, He put His fingers into his ears; and spitting, He touched his tongue;
and looking up into Heaven, He groaned and said to him, Ephphatha! (which is, Be opened!)
And instantly his ears were opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosened, and he spoke correctly.
And He ordered them that they should tell no one. But as much as He ordered them, much more abundantly they proclaimed.
And they were most exceedingly amazed, saying, He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.