And after yt I herde ye voyce of moche people in heven sayinge: Alleluia. Saluacion and glory and honour and power be ascribed to ye lorde oure god
for true and ryghteous are his iudgmentes for he hath iudged ye grett whore which did corrupt the erth with her fornicacion and hath avenged the bloud of his servauntes of her hond.
And agayne they said: Alleluya. And smoke rose vp for evermore.
And the xxiiii. elders and the iiii. bestes fell doune and worshypped god that sate on the seate sayinge: Amen Alleluya.
And a voyce cam out of the seate saying: prayse oure lorde god all ye that are his servauntes and ye that feare him both small and grett.
And I herde the voyce of moche people eve as the voyce of many waters and as the voyce of stronge thondrynges sayinge: Alleluya for god omnipotent raigneth.
Let vs be glad and reioyce and geve honour to him: for the mariage of the lambe is come and hys wyffe made her sylfe reddy.
And to her was graunted that she shulde be arayed with pure and goodly raynes. For the raynes is the ryghtewesnes of saynctes.
And he sayde vnto me: happy are they which are called vnto the Labes supper. And he sayde vnto me: these are the true sayinges of God.
And I fell at his fete to worshyppe him. And he sayde vnto me se thou do it not. For I am thy felowe seruaunt and one of thy brethern and of them that have the testimony of Iesus. Worshyppe God. For the testymony of Iesus ys the sprete of prophesy.
And I sawe heven open and beholde a whyte horsse: and he that sat apon him was faythfull and true and in ryghtewesnes dyd iudge and make battayle.
His eyes were as a flame of fyre: and on his heed were many crounes: and he had a name written yt noman knewe but him sylfe.
And he was clothed with a vesture dipt in bloud and and hys name ys called the worde of God.
And the warriers which were in heven folowed him apon whyte horsses clothed with whyte and pure raynes:
and out of his mouthe went out a sharppe swerde that with yt he shuld smyte the hethen. And he shall rule them with a rodde of yron and he trode the wynefatt of fearsnes and wrath of almyghty god.
And hath on his vesture and on his thygh a name written: kynge of kynges and lorde of lordes.
And I sawe an angell stonde in the sunne and he cryed with a lowde voyce sayinge to all the fowles that flye by ye myddes of heve come and gaddre youre selves to gedder vnto the supper of the gret god
that ye maye eate the flesshe of kynges and of hye captaynes and the flesshe of myghty men and the flesshe of horsses and of them that sytt on them and the flesshe of all free men and bond men and of small and gret.
And I sawe the beste and the kynges of the erth and their warriers gaddred to gedder to make battayle agaynste him that satt on the horsse and agaynst his sowdiers.
And the beste was take and with him that falce prophett that wrought myracles before him with which he desceaved the that receaved ye beestes marke and them that worshipped his ymage. These both were cast into a pode of fyre burnyge with brymstone:
and ye remnaunte were slayne with ye swearde of him that sat apon the horsse which swearde proceded out of his mouthe and all the foules were fulfilled with their flesshe.