In thee, O Yahweh, have I sought refuge, Let me not be ashamed to times age-abiding, In thy righteousness, deliver me:
Incline unto me, thine ear, Speedily rescue me,—Become to me a Rock of refuge, a Place of security, For saving me.
Because, my mountain crag and my stronghold, thou art, Therefore, for the sake of thine own Name, wilt thou lead me and guide me?
Wilt thou bring me forth, out of the net which they have hidden for me? For, thou, art my refuge.
Into thy hand, do I commit my spirit—Thou hast ransomed me, O Yahweh, GOD most faithful.
I hate such as give heed to false vanities, I, then, in Yahweh, have set my hope.
I will indeed exult and rejoice, in thy lovingkindness,—In that thou hast looked upon my humiliation, thou hast taken note that in distresses was my life;
And hast not shut me up in the hand of the foe, Thou hast given standing, in a roomy place, unto my feet.
Show me favour, O Yahweh, for in distress am I,—Wasted with vexation, is mine eye—my soul and my body;
For, consumed with sorrow, is my life, and my years with sighing,—My strength hath staggered with my humiliation, and, my bones, are without marrow.
By reason of all mine adversaries, have I become a reproach. Even to my neighbours, altogether, and a dread to mine acquaintance,—They who have seen me abroad, have fled from me:
I have been forgotten, like one dead—out of mind, I have been as a missing vessel.
For I have heard the whispering of many—A terror round about! When they have sat in conclave together against me, to take away my life, have they intrigued.
I, therefore. in thee, have put my trust, O Yahweh, I have said, My God, thou art!
In thy hand, are my times, Rescue me from the hand of my foes and from my pursuers!
Cause thy face to shine upon thy servant, Save me in thy lovingkindness.
O Yahweh! let me not be ashamed, For I have called upon thee, Let the lawless be ashamed, Go down in silence to hades!
Let false lips be made dumb,—which are speaking—against a righteous one—arrogantly, with pride and contempt.
How great is thy goodness, which thou hast hidden away for them who revere thee,—Thou hast wrought for them who seek refuge in thee, in sight of the sons of men.
Thou wilt conceal them, in the secrecy of thine own presence, from the conspiracies of men,—Thou wilt hide them in a pavilion, from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be Yahweh, for he hath made wonderful his lovingkindness for me, in a fortified city.
But, I, had said in mine alarm, I am cut off from before thine eyes,—But, indeed, thou didst hear the voice of my supplication, when I cried for help unto thee.
Love Yahweh, all ye his men of lovingkindness,—Faithfulness, doth Yahweh observe, but repayeth abundantly him that worketh proudly.
Be strong, and let your heart be bold, all ye who are waiting for Yahweh.