And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
If a soul sins, and commits a trespass against Jehovah, and deals falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of bargain, or of robbery, or have oppressed his neighbor,
or has found that which was lost, and deal falsely by it, and swears to a lie, in any of all these things that a man does, sinning by it,
then it shall be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found,
or anything about which he has sworn falsely, he shall even restore it in full, and shall add the fifth part more to it. He shall give it to him to whom it pertains, in the day of his being found guilty.
And he shall bring his trespass offering to Jehovah, a ram without blemish out of the flock, according to thy estimation, for a trespass offering, to the priest.
And the priest shall make atonement for him before Jehovah, and he shall be forgiven concerning whatever he does so as to be guilty by it.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: The burnt offering shall be on the hearth upon the altar all night to the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it.
And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and he shall put his linen breeches upon his flesh, and he shall take up the ashes of the fire which has consumed the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.
And the fire upon the altar shall be kept burning on it; it shall not go out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and he shall lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and shall burn the fat of the peace offerings on it.
Fire shall be kept burning upon the altar continually; it shall not go out.
And this is the law of the meal offering: The sons of Aaron shall offer it before Jehovah, before the altar.
And he shall take up his handful from it, of the fine flour of the meal offering, and of the oil of it, and all the frankincense which is upon the meal offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor, as the memorial of it, to Jehovah.
And that which is left of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten without leaven in a holy place. They shall eat it in the court of the tent of meeting.
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire, it is most holy, as the sin offering, and as the trespass offering.
Every male among the sons of Aaron shall eat of it, as a portion forever throughout your generations, from the offerings of Jehovah made by fire. Whoever touches them shall be holy.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
This is the oblation of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to Jehovah in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening.
It shall be made with oil on a baking-pan. Thou shall bring it in when it is soaked. Thou shall offer the meal offering in baked pieces for a sweet savor to Jehovah.
And the anointed priest who shall be in his stead from among his sons shall offer it. It shall be wholly burnt to Jehovah by a statute forever.
And every meal offering of the priest shall be wholly burnt; it shall not be eaten.
And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is killed the sin offering shall be killed before Jehovah. It is most holy.
The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. It shall be eaten in a holy place, in the court of the tent of meeting.
Whatever shall touch the flesh of it shall be holy. And when there is of the blood sprinkled upon any garment, thou shall wash that on which it was sprinkled in a holy place.
But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken, and if it be boiled in a brazen vessel, it shall be scoured, and rinsed in water.
Every male among the priests shall eat of it. It is most holy.
And no sin offering, from which any of the blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place, shall be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire.