THESE things spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son may glorify thee:
even as thou hast given him authority over all flesh, that with regard to all those whom thou hast given him, he should give to them eternal life:
and this is eternal life, that they should know thee the only true God, and him whom thou hast sent, Jesus, the Messiah.
I have glorified thee upon earth: I have completed the work which thou gavest me to perform.
And now, Father, do thou glorify me with thyself in the glory which I held with thee before the world was.
I have made known thy name to the persons whom thou gavest me out of the world: for thee they had a being, and to me thou hast given them; and thy word have they kept.
Now have they known, that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are from thee.
For the declarations which thou gavest to me I have delivered to them; and they have received them, and have known assuredly that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou hast sent me.
I entreat for them: I make no request for the world; but for those thou hast given me; for they are thine.
And all mine are thine, and thine mine; and I have been glorified in them.
And now no longer am I in this world, but these are in the world, and I am coming to thee. Holy Father! preserve them for thy name’s sake whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.
When I was with them in the world, I preserved them by thy name: those whom thou hast given me have I guarded, and not one of them is perished, except the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled.
But now I am coming to thee; and I am speaking these things in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves.
I have given them thy word and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
I entreat not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest preserve them from the wicked one.
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
Sanctify them by thy truth: thy word is truth.
As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I sent them into the world.
And for them I devote myself, that they also might be sanctified by the truth.
And not for them do I make request only, but also for those who shall believe in me through their word;
that all may be one; as thou, Father, in me, and I in thee, that these also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.
And I have given them the glory, which thou hast given me; that they may be one, even as we are one:
I in them, and thou in me, that they may be perfected into one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me.
Father, those whom thou hast given me, I will that where I am they may also be with me; that they may behold my glory, which thou gavest me: because thou hast loved me before the foundation of the world.
Righteous Father! though the world hath not known thee, yet I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me.
And I have made known to them thy name, and will make it known: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.