Paul, a called apostle of Jesus Christ, through God’s will,—and Sosthenes the brother,—
Unto the assembly of God which is in Corinth, sanctified in Christ Jesus, called saints,—with all who call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, in every place,—their Lord and ours:
Favour unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and Lord Jesus Christ.
I give thanks unto my God, at all times, concerning you, by reason of the favour of God given unto you in Christ Jesus,—
That, in everything, ye have been enriched in him—in all discourse and in all knowledge;
Even as, the witness of the Christ, hath been confirmed in you,
So that ye come short in no gift of favour,—ardently awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ:
Who will also confirm you unto the end, unaccusable in the day of our Lord Jesus [Christ]:
Faithful, is God, through whom ye have been called into the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.
But I beseech you, brethren, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,—that, the same thing, ye, all, be saying, and that there be not, among you, divisions; but that ye be fitly joined together—in the same mind, and in the same judgment.
For it hath been signified unto me, concerning you, my brethren,—by them who are of [the household of] Chloe,—that there are strifes among you,
Now I mean this,—that, each one of you, is saying—I, indeed, am of Paul, but, I, of Apollos, but, I, of Cephas, but, I, of Christ:
The Christ is divided! Was, Paul, crucified for you? Or, into the name of Paul, were ye immersed?
I give thanks, that, none of you, did I immerse—save Crispus and Gaius,
Lest any should say—into my own name, I immersed:
Yea! I immersed the house of Stephanas also,—besides, I know not whether, anyone else, I immersed.
For Christ sent me not, to be immersing, but to be telling the good news,—not with wisdom of discourse, lest, void should be made, the cross of the Christ.
For, the discourse which concerneth the cross, unto them, indeed, who are perishing, is, foolishness; but, unto them who are being saved—unto us, it is, God’s power.
For it is written—I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and, the discernment of the discerning, will I set aside.
Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?
For, seeing that, in the wisdom of God, the world, through its wisdom, did not get to knew God, God was well-pleased—through the foolishness of the thing proclaimed, to save them that believe.
Seeing that both, Jews for signs, do ask, and, Greeks for wisdom, do seek,
Whereas, we, proclaim a Christ who hath been crucified,—unto Jews, indeed, an occasion of stumbling, and, unto Gentiles, foolishness;
But, unto the called themselves—both Jews and Greeks, Christ, God’s power, and, God’s wisdom.
Because, God’s foolish thing, is, wiser than men, and, God’s weak thing, mightier than men.
For be looking at the calling of you, brethren,—that [there were] not many wise, according to flesh. Not many powerful, not many high-born:
On the contrary—the foolish things of the world, hath God chosen, that he might put to shame them who are wise, and, the weak things of the world, hath God chosen, that he might put to shame the things that are mighty,
And, the low-born things of the world, and the things that are despised, hath God chosen,—[and] the things that are not,—that, the things that are, he might bring to nought;
So that no flesh should boast before God.
But, of him, are, ye, in Christ Jesus, who hath been made wisdom unto us, from God,—both righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption:
In order that, even as it is written—He that boasteth, in the Lord, let him boast.