And God said to Jacob, Rise up, go to Bethel and live there. And make an altar there to God, who appeared to you when you fled before your brother Esau.
And Jacob said to his house, and to all those with him, Put away the strange gods in your midst, and purify yourselves, and change your clothing.
And let us rise up and go up to Bethel. And I will make an altar there to God, who answered me in the day of my distress. And He was with me in the way in which I went.
And they gave all the strange gods in their hand to Jacob, and the earrings which were in their ears. And Jacob hid them under the oak which was near Shechem.
And they pulled up stakes . And the terror of God was on the cities all around them, and they did not pursue the sons of Jacob.
And Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan; it is Bethel, he and all the people with him came.
And he built an altar there and called the place Elbethel; because God revealed Himself to him there when he fled from the face of his brother.
And Deborah died, the nurse of Rebekah, and she was buried below Bethel, under the oak. And he called its name, Oak of Weeping.
And God appeared to Jacob again when he came out of Padan-aram, and He blessed him.
And God said to him, Your name is Jacob; your name will not any more be called Jacob, but Israel will be your name. And He called his name Israel.
And God said to him, I am God Almighty; be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations shall be from you. And kings shall go forth from your loins.
And the land which I gave to Abraham and to Isaac, I will give it to you; and after you I will give the land to your seed.
And God went up from him, in the place where He had spoken with him.
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where He had spoken with him, a pillar of stone. And he poured out a drink offering on it; and he poured oil on it.
And Jacob called the name of the place, there where God had spoken with him, Bethel.
And they pulled up stakes from Bethel. And there was yet a length of land to come to Ephrath. And Rachel bore; and she had hard labor in her bearing.
And it happened, when she had hard labor in her bearing, even the midwife said to her, Do not fear, for this also is a son for you.
And it happened, when her soul was going forth (for she died) even she called his name Benoni. But his father called him Benjamin.
And Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ephrath, it is Bethlehem.
And Jacob set up a pillar on her grave; it is the pillar of Rachel's grave until today.
And Israel pulled up and pitched his tent beyond the Tower of the Flocks.
And it happened as Israel lived in that land, it happened; even Reuben went and lay with Bilhah, his father's concubine And Israel heard. And the sons of Jacob were twelve.
The sons of Leah: Reuben, Jacob's first born; and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun.
The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's slave-girl: Dan and Naphtali.
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's slave-girl: Gad and Asher. These were Jacob's sons who were born in Padan-aram.
And Jacob came to his father Isaac, to Mamre, to the City of Arba; it is Hebron where Abraham and Isaac turned in.
And the days of Isaac were a hundred and eighty years.
And Isaac expired and died and was gathered to his people, old and satisfied of days. And his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.