Behold what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we may be called children of God. Because of this the world does not know you, because it did not know him.
Beloved, now we are children of God, and it is not yet made known what we will be. But we know that whenever he is made known we will be like him, because we will see him as he is.
And every man who has this hope in him purifies himself, just as that man is pure.
Every man doing sin also does lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness.
And ye know that that man was made known so that he might take up our sins. And in him is no sin.
Every man abiding in him does not sin. Every man who is sinning has not seen him, nor has known him.
Little children, let no man lead you astray. He who is doing righteousness is righteous, just as that man is righteous.
He who is doing sin is of the devil, because the devil sinned from the beginning. The Son of God was made known for this, so that he might destroy the works of the devil.
Every man who has been begotten of God is not doing sin, because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin, because he has been begotten of God.
By this the children of God are visible, and the children of the devil. Every man not doing righteousness is not of God, and he who is not loving his brother.
Because this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love each other.
Not as Cain. He was of the wicked, and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his works were wrong, and his brother's right.
Marvel not, my brothers, if the world hates you.
We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. He who is not loving the brother abides in death.
Every man hating his brother is a man-killer. And ye know that no man-killer has eternal life abiding in him.
By this we know love, because that man laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.
But whoever has the world's living, and sees his brother having need, and closes his bowels from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
My little children, we should not love in word, nor with the tongue, but in deed and in truth.
And by this we know that we are of the truth, and will assure our hearts before him.
Because if our heart should condemn us, that God is greater than our heart, and knows all things.
Beloved, if our heart should not condemn us, we have confidence toward God,
and whatever we may ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do things pleasing in his sight.
And this is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love each other, just as he gave command.
And he who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him. And by this we know that he abides in us, from the Spirit that he gave us.