And Yahweh spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying—
When, any man, shall have—in the skin of his flesh—a rising, or a scab, or a bright spot, and it shall become in the skin of his flesh the plague-spot of leprosy, then shall he be brought in unto Aaron the priest, or unto one of his sons the priests;
and the priest shall view the spot in the skin of his flesh—if, the hair in the plague, have turned white and the appearance of the spot be deeper than the skin of his flesh, the plague-spot of leprosy, it is,—so the priest shall view him and pronounce him unclean.
But, if the bright spot, though white in the skin of his flesh, is not deeper in appearance than the skin, and, the hair, hath not turned white, then shall the priest shut up the plagued one, seven days.
And the priest shall view him on the seventh day, and lo! if the spot hath stayed to his sight, and the spot hath not spread in the skin, then shall the priest shut him up seven days more,
Then shall the priest view him on the seventh day, a second time, and lo! if the spot is, faint, and the spot hath not spread in the skin, then shall the priest pronounce him clean—it is, a scab, and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
But if the scab shall have, verily spread, in the skin, since he was shown to the priest that he might be cleansed, then shall he shew himself again unto the priest;
and the priest shall take a view, and lo! if the scab hath spread in the skin, then shall the priest pronounce him unclean—leprosy, it is.
When, the plague of leprosy, cometh to be in any human being, then shall he be brought in unto the priest;
and the priest shall take a view, and lo! if there is a white rising in the skin and, the same, hath turned the hair white,—and there be a wound of raw flesh in the rising,
an old leprosy, it is in the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean,—he shall not shut him up, for unclean, he is.
But, if the leprosy, cometh quite out, in the skin, and the leprosy covereth all the skin of him that, is plagued, from his head even unto his feet,—so far as appeareth to the eyes of the priest,
then shall the priest takes view and lo! if the leprosy hath covered all his flesh, then shall he pronounce clean him that was plagued,—all of it, hath turned white, clean, he is.
But, the very day there appeareth in him raw flesh, he shall be unclean;
so then the priest shall view the raw flesh, and pronounce him unclean,—as for the raw flesh, unclean, it is, leprosy, it is.
Or, if the raw flesh turn again and be changed to white, then shall he come in unto the priest;
and the priest shall view him, and lo! if the spot hath changed to white, then shall the priest pronounce clean him that was plagued—clean, he is.
And, when, any one’s flesh, hath, in the skin thereof, a boil,—and then it is healed;
but in the place of the boil, is a white rising, or a bright spot, reddish white, then shall it be shown unto the priest.
And the priest shall take a view and lo! if the appearance thereof, is lower than the skin, and, the hair thereof, hath turned white, then shall the priest pronounce him unclean—the plague-spot of leprosy, it, is, in the boil, broken out.
But, if the priest shall view it and lo! there is no white hair therein, and it is not deeper than the skin, and, in itself, is faint, then shall the priest shut him up seven days;
and, if it, clearly spreadeth, in the skin, then shall the priest pronounce him unclean—a plague-spot, it is.
But if in its place the bright spot stayeth hath not spread, a boil, it is,—and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
Or, when, any one’s flesh, hath in the skin thereof a fiery burning,—and the burning wound becometh a bright spot reddish white, or white,
then shall the priest view it—and lo! if the hair is turned white in the bright spot and the appearance thereof is deeper than the skin, leprosy, it is, broken out, in the burning,—so the priest shall pronounce him unclean, the plague-spot of leprosy, it is.
But, if the priest shall view it and lo! there is not, in the bright spot white hair, and it is not deeper than the skin but, itself, is faint, then shall the priest shut him up seven days;
and the priest shall view him on the seventh day,—if it, hath plainly spread in the skin, then shall the priest pronounce him unclean, the plague-spot of leprosy, it is.
But, if, in its place the bright spot hath stayed, and hath not spread in the skin, but, itself, is faint, the rising of a burning, it is,—and the priest shall pronounce him clean, for only the inflaming of the burning, it is.
And, when there cometh to be in, any man or woman, a spot,—in the head or in the beard,
then shall the priest view the spot and lo! if, the appearance thereof, is deeper than the skin, and, therein, is yellow, thin hair, then shall the priest pronounce him unclean a scall, it is, a leprosy of the head or of the beard, it is.
But when the priest vieweth the spot, and lo! there is, no appearance, of it deeper than the skin, and, no dark hair, is therein, then shall the priest shut up him that hath the plague-spot of scall, seven days;
and the priest shall view the spot on the seventh day, and lo! if the scall hath not spread, and there hath not come to be therein yellow hair,—and, the appearance of the scall, is not deeper than the skin,
then shall he shave himself, but the scall, shall he not shave, and the priest shall shut up him who hath the scall seven days, more;
then shall the priest view the scall, on the seventh day, and lo! if the scall hath not spread in the skin, and, the appearance thereof, is not deeper than the skin, then shall the priest pronounce him clean, and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
But, if the scall do indeed spread in the skin,—after he hath been pronounced clean,
then shall the priest take a view, and lo! if the scall hath spread in the skin, the priest shall not search for the yellow hair—unclean, he is.
But, if in his eyes, the scall is at a stay, and dark hair hath grown up therein, the scall is healed, clean, he is,—and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
And when either, man or woman, hath in the skin of their flesh bright spots,—bright spots that are white,
then shall the priest take a view and lo! if, in the skin of their flesh, are bright spots that are dull white, dead white spot, it is, that hath broken through in the skin—clean, he is.
And, when, any man’s, head loseth its hair, though, bald, he is, clean.
And if, in front, his head loseth its hair, though bald in the forehead, he is, clean.
But, should there be, in the baldness behind, or in the baldness in front, a spot that is reddish white, leprosy broken out, it is, in his baldness behind, or in his baldness in front.
So the priest shall view it, and lo! if, the rising-spot, be reddish white in his baldness behind or in his baldness in front,—like the appearance of leprosy in the skin of the flesh,
a leprous man, is he, unclean, he is,—unclean, shall the priest pronounce him in his head, is his plague.
Now, as for the leper in whom is the plague, His clothes, shall be rent, And, his head, shall be bare, And, his beard, shall he cover,—And, Unclean! Unclean! shall he cry.
All the days that the plague is in him, shall he continue unclean, Unclean, he is,—Alone, shall he remain, Outside the camp, shall be his dwelling.
And, when, in a garment, there is a plague-spot of leprosy,—whether in a garment of wool, or a garment of flax;
either in warp or in weft, made with flax, or with wool,—or in a skin, or in anything wrought of skin;
and the spot cometh to be of a greenish yellow or reddish, in the garment or in the skin, whether in warp or in weft, or in any utensil of skin, the plague-spot of leprosy, it is,—and shall be shown unto the priest;
and the priest shall view the spot,—and shall shut up him that is plagued seven days;
then shall he view the spot, on the seventh day if the spot hath spread in the garment whether in warp or in weft, or in the skin, or anything which may be made of skin for service, the spot is a fretting leprosy, unclean, it is.
Then shall he burn up the garment whether it be in the warp or the weft in wool or in flax, or any utensil of skin, wherein shall be the plague-spot,—for, a fretting leprosy, it is, in fire, shall it be burnt up.
But if the priest shall take a view, and lo! the spot has not spread, in the garment, either in warp or in weft,—or in any utensil of skin,
then shall the priest give command, and they shall wash that wherein is the spot,—and he shall shut it up seven days more;
then shall the priest take a view after the plagued garment hath been washed and lo! if the spot hath not changed its look, then though the spot hath not spread, yet unclean, it is, in the fire, shalt thou burn it up,—a sunken spot, it is, in the back thereof, or in the front thereof.
And, if the priest hath taken a view, and lo! the spot is, faint, since it hath been washed, then shall he rend it out of the garment, or out of the skin, whether out of the warp or out of the weft;
and, if it appear still in the garment—either in the warp or in the weft, or in any utensil of skin, a breaking out, it is,—in the fire, shalt thou burn up that wherein is the plague.
But, as for the garment—whether the warp or the weft or any utensil of skin which thou shalt wash, and the plague shall depart therefrom, then shall it be washed a second time, and shall be clean.
This, is the law as to the plague-spot of leprosy, in a garment of wool or of flax, whether in the warp or the weft, or in any utensil of skin,—To pronounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean.