He who is wounded in the testicles, or has his private part cut off, shall not enter into the assembly of Jehovah.
A bastard shall not enter into the assembly of Jehovah, even to the tenth generation none of his shall enter into the assembly of Jehovah.
An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter into the assembly of Jehovah, even to the tenth generation none belonging to them shall enter into the assembly of Jehovah forever,
because they met you not with bread and with water on the way, when ye came forth out of Egypt, and because they hired against thee Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse thee.
Nevertheless Jehovah thy God would not hearken to Balaam, but Jehovah thy God turned the curse into a blessing to thee, because Jehovah thy God loved thee.
Thou shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all thy days forever.
Thou shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is thy brother. Thou shall not abhor an Egyptian, because thou were a sojourner in his land.
The sons of the third generation who are born to them shall enter into the assembly of Jehovah.
When the army goes forth against thine enemies, then thou shall keep thee from every evil thing.
If there be among you any man, who is not clean by reason of an accident by night, then he shall go abroad out of the camp. He shall not come inside the camp.
But it shall be, when evening comes on, he shall bathe himself in water, and when the sun is down, he shall come inside the camp.
Thou shall have a place also outside the camp, where thou shall go forth abroad.
And thou shall have a paddle among thy weapons, and it shall be, when thou sit down abroad, thou shall dig with it, and shall turn back and cover that which comes from thee.
For Jehovah thy God walks in the midst of thy camp, to deliver thee, and to give up thine enemies before thee. Therefore thy camp shall be holy, that he may not see an unclean thing in thee, and turn away from thee.
Thou shall not deliver to his master a servant who is escaped from his master to thee.
He shall dwell with thee, in the midst of thee, in the place which he shall choose within one of thy gates, where it pleases him best. Thou shall not oppress him.
There shall be no prostitute of the daughters of Israel, neither shall there be a sodomite of the sons of Israel.
Thou shall not bring the hire of a harlot, or the wages of a dog, into the house of Jehovah thy God for any vow, for even both these are an abomination to Jehovah thy God.
Thou shall not lend upon interest to thy brother: interest of money, interest of food, interest of anything that is lent upon interest.
To a foreigner thou may lend upon interest, but to thy brother thou shall not lend upon interest, that Jehovah thy God may bless thee in all that thou put thy hand to, in the land where thou go in to possess it.
When thou shall vow a vow to Jehovah thy God, thou shall not be slack to pay it. For Jehovah thy God will surely require it of thee, and it would be sin in thee.
But if thou shall forbear to vow, it shall be no sin in thee.
That which has gone out of thy lips thou shall observe and do, according as thou have vowed to Jehovah thy God, a freewill offering, which thou have promised with thy mouth.
When thou come into thy neighbor's vineyard, then thou may eat thy fill of grapes at thine own pleasure, but thou shall not put any in thy vessel.
When thou come into thy neighbor's standing grain, then thou may pluck the ears with thy hand, but thou shall not move a sickle to thy neighbor's standing grain.