And after Abimelech, Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, rose up to save Israel. And he lived in Shamir, in the hills of Ephraim.
And he judged Israel twenty three years. And he died and was buried in Shamir.
And after him Jair, a Gileadite, rose up. And he judged Israel twenty two years.
And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty ass colts. And they had thirty cities, which are called The Towns of Jair to this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And Jair died and was buried in Kamon.
And the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah again, and served the Baals, and the Ashtoreths, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the sons of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines. And they forsook Jehovah and did not serve Him.
And the anger of Jehovah glowed against Israel. And He sold them into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hand of the sons of Ammon.
And they crushed and oppressed the sons of Israel in that year, for eighteen years, all the sons of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And the sons of Ammon crossed over the Jordan to fight against Judah also, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim. And Israel was greatly distressed.
And the sons of Israel cried to Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against You, even because we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baals.
And Jehovah said to the sons of Israel, Did I not save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the sons of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Maon have oppressed you, and you cried to Me, and I saved you out of their hand.
Yet you have forsaken Me, and served other gods; therefore, I did not save you again.
Go and cry to the gods which you have chosen; let them save you in the time of your distress.
And the sons of Israel said to Jehovah, We have sinned. Do to us whatever may be good in Your eyes; only please deliver us his day.
And they removed the gods of the alien from among them, and served Jehovah. And His soul was grieved with the misery of Israel.
And the sons of Ammon were called together, and camped in Gilead. And the sons of Israel were gathered, and camped in Mizpeh
And the people said, The chief men of Gilead, each man to his neighbor, Who will be the man who will begin to fight against the sons of Ammon? He shall be head over all the people of Gilead.