ALEPH. Blessed are those that are vpright in their way, and walke in the Lawe of the Lord.
Blessed are they that keepe his testimonies, and seeke him with their whole heart.
Surely they woorke none iniquitie, but walke in his waies.
Thou hast commanded to keepe thy precepts diligently.
Oh that my waies were directed to keepe thy statutes!
Then should I not be confounded, when I haue respect vnto all thy commandements.
I will praise thee with an vpright heart, when I shall learne the iudgements of thy righteousnesse.
I will keepe thy statutes: forsake mee not ouerlong.
BETH. Wherewith shall a yong man redresse his waie? in taking heede thereto according to thy woorde.
With my whole heart haue I sought thee: let me not wander from thy commandements.
I haue hid thy promise in mine heart, that I might not sinne against thee.
Blessed art thou, O Lord: teache mee thy statutes.
With my lippes haue I declared all the iudgements of thy mouth.
I haue had as great delight in the way of thy testimonies, as in all riches.
I will meditate in thy precepts, and consider thy waies.
I will delite in thy statutes, and I will not forget thy worde.
GIMEL. Be beneficiall vnto thy seruant, that I may liue and keepe thy woorde.
Open mine eies, that I may see the wonders of thy Lawe.
I am a stranger vpon earth: hide not thy commandements from me.
Mine heart breaketh for the desire to thy iudgements alway.
Thou hast destroied the proud: cursed are they that doe erre from thy commandements.
Remoue from mee shame and contempt: for I haue kept thy testimonies.
Princes also did sit, and speake against me: but thy seruant did meditate in thy statutes.
Also thy testimonies are my delite, and my counsellers.
DALETH. My soule cleaueth to the dust: quicken me according to thy worde.
I haue declared my waies, and thou heardest me: teache me thy statutes.
Make me to vnderstand ye way of thy precepts, and I will meditate in thy wondrous workes.
My soule melteth for heauinesse: raise mee vp according vnto thy worde.
Take from mee the way of lying, and graunt me graciously thy Lawe.
I haue chosen the way of trueth, and thy iudgements haue I laied before me.
I haue cleaued to thy testimonies, O Lord: confound me not.
I will runne the way of thy commandements, when thou shalt enlarge mine heart.
HE. Teach mee, O Lord, the way of thy statutes, and I will keepe it vnto the ende.
Giue mee vnderstanding, and I will keepe thy Law: yea, I wil keepe it with my whole heart.
Direct mee in the path of thy commandements: for therein is my delite.
Incline mine heart vnto thy testimonies, and not to couetousnesse.
Turne away mine eies from regarding vanitie, and quicken me in thy way.
Stablish thy promise to thy seruaunt, because he feareth thee.
Take away my rebuke that I feare: for thy iudgements are good.
Beholde, I desire thy commandements: quicken me in thy righteousnesse,
VAV. And let thy louing kindnesse come vnto me, O Lord, and thy saluation according to thy promise.
So shall I make answere vnto my blasphemers: for I trust in thy woorde.
And take not the woorde of trueth vtterly out of my mouth: for I waite for thy iudgements.
So shall I alway keepe thy Lawe for euer and euer.
And I will walke at libertie: for I seeke thy precepts.
I will speake also of thy testimonies before Kings, and will not be ashamed.
And my delite shalbe in thy commandements, which I haue loued.
Mine handes also will I lift vp vnto thy commandements, which I haue loued, and I will meditate in thy statutes.
ZAIN. Remember the promise made to thy seruant, wherein thou hast caused me to trust.
It is my comfort in my trouble: for thy promise hath quickened me.
The proude haue had me exceedingly in derision: yet haue I not declined from thy Lawe.
I remembred thy iudgements of olde, O Lord, and haue bene comforted.
Feare is come vpon mee for the wicked, that forsake thy Lawe.
Thy statutes haue beene my songes in the house of my pilgrimage.
I haue remembred thy Name, O Lord, in the night, and haue kept thy Lawe.
This I had because I kept thy precepts.
CHETH. O Lord, that art my portion, I haue determined to keepe thy wordes.
I made my supplication in thy presence with my whole heart: be mercifull vnto me according to thy promise.
I haue considered my waies, and turned my feete into thy testimonies.
I made haste and delaied not to keepe thy commandements.
The bandes of the wicked haue robbed me: but I haue not forgotten thy Lawe.
At midnight will I rise to giue thanks vnto thee, because of thy righteous iudgements.
I am companion of all them that feare thee, and keepe thy precepts.
The earth, O Lord, is full of thy mercie: teache me thy statutes.
TETH. O Lord, thou hast delt graciously with thy seruant according vnto thy woorde.
Teach me good iudgement and knowledge: for I haue beleeued thy commandements.
Before I was afflicted, I went astray: but nowe I keepe thy woorde.
Thou art good and gracious: teach me thy statutes.
The proud haue imagined a lie against me: but I wil keepe thy precepts with my whole heart.
Their heart is fatte as grease: but my delite is in thy Lawe.
It is good for me that I haue beene afflicted, that I may learne thy statutes.
The Lawe of thy mouth is better vnto me, then thousands of golde and siluer.
IOD. Thine hands haue made me and fashioned me: giue mee vnderstanding therefore, that I may learne thy commandements.
So they that feare thee, seeing mee shall reioyce, because I haue trusted in thy worde.
I knowe, O Lord, that thy iudgements are right, and that thou hast afflicted me iustly.
I pray thee that thy mercie may comfort me according to thy promise vnto thy seruant.
Let thy tender mercies come vnto me, that I may liue: for thy Lawe is my delite.
Let the proude be ashamed: for they haue dealt wickedly and falsely with me: but I meditate in thy precepts.
Let such as feare thee turne vnto me, and they that knowe thy testimonies.
Let mine heart bee vpright in thy statutes, that I be not ashamed.
CAPH. My soule fainteth for thy saluation: yet I waite for thy worde.
Mine eyes faile for thy promise, saying, when wilt thou comfort me?
For I am like a bottell in the smoke: yet doe I not forget thy statutes.
Howe many are the dayes of thy seruant? When wilt thou execute iudgement on them that persecute me?
The proude haue digged pittes for mee, which is not after thy Lawe.
All thy commandements are true: they persecute me falsely: helpe me.
They had almost consumed me vpon the earth: but I forsooke not thy precepts.
Quicken me according to thy louing kindnes: so shall I keepe the testimony of thy mouth.
LAMED. O Lord, thy worde endureth for euer in heauen.
Thy trueth is from generation to generation: thou hast layed the foundation of the earth, and it abideth.
They continue euen to this day by thine ordinances: for all are thy seruants.
Except thy Lawe had bene my delite, I should now haue perished in mine affliction.
I wil neuer forget thy precepts: for by them thou hast quickened me.
I am thine, saue me: for I haue sought thy precepts.
The wicked haue waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies.
I haue seene an ende of all perfection: but thy commandement is exceeding large.
MEM. Oh howe loue I thy Lawe! it is my meditation continually.
By thy commandements thou hast made mee wiser then mine enemies: for they are euer with mee.
I haue had more vnderstading then all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.
I vnderstoode more then the ancient, because I kept thy precepts.
I haue refrained my feete from euery euil way, that I might keepe thy word.
I haue not declined from thy iudgements: for thou didest teach me.
Howe sweete are thy promises vnto my mouth! yea, more then hony vnto my mouth.
By thy precepts I haue gotten vnderstanding: therefore I hate all the wayes of falshoode.
NUN. Thy worde is a lanterne vnto my feete, and a light vnto my path.
I haue sworne and will performe it, that I will keepe thy righteous iudgements.
I am very sore afflicted: O Lord, quicken me according to thy word.
O Lord, I beseeche thee accept the free offerings of my mouth, and teach mee thy iudgements.
My soule is continually in mine hande: yet doe I not forget thy Lawe.
The wicked haue layed a snare for mee: but I swarued not from thy precepts.
Thy testimonies haue I taken as an heritage for euer: for they are the ioy of mine heart.
I haue applied mine heart to fulfill thy statutes alway, euen vnto the ende.
SAMECH. I hate vaine inuentions: but thy Lawe doe I loue.
Thou art my refuge and shield, and I trust in thy worde.
Away from mee, yee wicked: for I will keepe the commandements of my God.
Stablish me according to thy promise, that I may liue, and disappoint me not of mine hope.
Stay thou mee, and I shall be safe, and I will delite continually in thy statutes.
Thou hast troden downe all them that depart from thy statutes: for their deceit is vaine.
Thou hast taken away all ye wicked of the earth like drosse: therefore I loue thy testimonies.
My flesh trembleth for feare of thee, and I am afraide of thy iudgements.
AIN. I haue executed iudgement and iustice: leaue me not to mine oppressours.
Answere for thy seruant in that, which is good, and let not the proude oppresse me.
Mine eyes haue failed in waiting for thy saluation, and for thy iust promise.
Deale with thy seruant according to thy mercie, and teache me thy statutes.
I am thy seruant: graunt mee therefore vnderstanding, that I may knowe thy testimonies.
It is time for thee Lord to worke: for they haue destroyed thy Lawe.
Therefore loue I thy commandements aboue golde, yea, aboue most fine golde.
Therefore I esteeme all thy precepts most iust, and hate all false wayes.
PE. Thy testimonies are wonderfull: therefore doeth my soule keepe them.
The entrance into thy wordes sheweth light, and giueth vnderstanding to the simple.
I opened my mouth and panted, because I loued thy commandements.
Looke vpon mee and bee mercifull vnto me, as thou vsest to doe vnto those that loue thy Name.
Direct my steppes in thy worde, and let none iniquitie haue dominion ouer me.
Deliuer mee from the oppression of men, and I will keepe thy precepts.
Shew the light of thy countenance vpon thy seruant, and teache me thy statutes.
Mine eyes gush out with riuers of water, because they keepe not thy Lawe.
TSADDI. Righteous art thou, O Lord, and iust are thy iudgements.
Thou hast commanded iustice by thy testimonies and trueth especially.
My zeale hath euen consumed mee, because mine enemies haue forgotten thy wordes.
Thy word is prooued most pure, and thy seruant loueth it.
I am small and despised: yet do I not forget thy precepts.
Thy righteousnesse is an euerlasting righteousnes, and thy Lawe is trueth.
Trouble and anguish are come vpon me: yet are thy commandements my delite.
The righteousnes of thy testimonies is euerlasting: graunt me vnderstanding, and I shall liue.
KOPH. I haue cried with my whole heart: heare me, O Lord, and I will keepe thy statutes.
I called vpon thee: saue mee, and I will keepe thy testimonies.
I preuented the morning light, and cried: for I waited on thy word.
Mine eyes preuent the night watches to meditate in thy word.
Heare my voyce according to thy louing kindenesse: O Lord, quicken me according to thy iudgement.
They drawe neere, that follow after malice, and are farre from thy Lawe.
Thou art neere, O Lord: for all thy commandements are true.
I haue knowen long since by thy testimonies, that thou hast established them for euer.
RESH. Beholde mine affliction, and deliuer mee: for I haue not forgotten thy Lawe.
Pleade my cause, and deliuer me: quicken me according vnto thy word.
Saluation is farre from the wicked, because they seeke not thy statutes.
Great are thy tender mercies, O Lord: quicken me according to thy iudgements.
My persecutours and mine oppressours are many: yet doe I not swarue from thy testimonies.
I saw the transgressours and was grieued, because they kept not thy worde.
Consider, O Lord, how I loue thy preceptes: quicken mee according to thy louing kindenesse.
The beginning of thy worde is trueth, and all the iudgements of thy righteousnesse endure for euer.
SCHIN. Princes haue persecuted mee without cause, but mine heart stood in awe of thy wordes.
I reioyce at thy worde, as one that findeth a great spoyle.
I hate falshoode and abhorre it, but thy Lawe doe I loue.
Seuen times a day doe I praise thee, because of thy righteous iudgements.
They that loue thy Law, shall haue great prosperitie, and they shall haue none hurt.
Lord, I haue trusted in thy saluation, and haue done thy commandements.
My soule hath kept thy testimonies: for I loue them exceedingly.
I haue kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my wayes are before thee.
TAV. Let my complaint come before thee, O Lord, and giue me vnderstanding, according vnto thy worde.
Let my supplication come before thee, and deliuer me according to thy promise.
My lippes shall speake praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.
My tongue shall intreate of thy word: for all thy commandements are righteous.
Let thine hand helpe me: for I haue chosen thy precepts.
I haue longed for thy saluation, O Lord, and thy Lawe is my delite.
Let my soule liue, and it shall praise thee, and thy iudgements shall helpe me.
I haue gone astraye like a lost sheepe: seeke thy seruant, for I doe not forget thy commandements.