Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip being tetrarch of the region belonging to Ituraea, and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias being tetrarch of Abilene,
in the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to be in John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.
And he came into all the region around the Jordan, preaching an immersion of repentance for remission of sins,
as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, which says, The voice of a man crying out in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight.
Every valley will be filled, and every mountain and hill will be brought low. And the crooked things will be into straight and the rough into smooth ways.
And all flesh will see the salvation of God.
He said therefore to the multitudes who went out to be immersed by him, Ye offspring of vipers, who showed you to flee from the coming wrath?
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say within yourselves, We have a father, Abraham. For I say to you, that God is able from these stones to raise up children to Abraham.
And even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore not making good fruit is cut down, and cast into fire.
And the crowds questioned him, saying, What then shall we do?
And having answered, he says to them, He who has two coats, let him share with him not having, and he who has food, let him do likewise.
And tax collectors also came to be immersed, and they said to him, Teacher, what should we do?
And he said to them, Collect not one thing more than from what has been appointed for you.
And men who were soldiers also questioned him, saying, And we, what should we do? And he said to them, Do violence to no man, nor accuse falsely, and be content with your wages.
And as the people were expectant, and all pondering in their hearts about John, if perhaps he was the Christ,
John responded, saying to them all, I indeed immerse you in water, but a man mightier than I comes, of whom I am not worthy to unloose the strap of his shoes. He will immerse you in the Holy Spirit and fire,
whose winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor, and will gather the wheat into his storehouse, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.
Indeed therefore, also exhorting the people with many other things, he preached the good news.
But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him about Herodias his brother's wife, and about all of which evil things Herod had done,
also added this to them all, he even locked up John in prison.
Now it came to pass, during the immersion of all the people, Jesus also having been immersed and praying, for the heaven to be opened,
and the Holy Spirit to descend in a bodily form as a dove upon him, and a voice to occur out of heaven, saying, Thou are my beloved Son. In thee I am well pleased.
And Jesus himself was beginning to be about thirty years old, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Janna, the son of Joseph,
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Joseph, the son of Joda,
the son of Joannan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri,
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
the son of Jose, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon,
the son of Amminadab, the son of Ram, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Heber, the son of Shelah
the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan,
the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.