Let brotherly love abide.
Do not forget love for strangers, for by this some lodged agents, unaware.
Remember the prisoners as being in bondage together, those who are ill-treated as also yourselves being in the body.
Marriage is precious in every way, and the undefiled bed, but God will judge fornicators and adulterers.
The Way of life is to be without love of money, being content with the things that are present, for he has said, I will, no, not leave thee, and also, I will, no, not forsake thee.
So then we have confidence to say, The Lord is a helper to me, and I will not fear. What will man do to me?
Remember those who lead you, men who spoke the word of God to you, of whom, carefully observing the outcome of their conduct, imitate the faith-
Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today, and into the ages.
Be not carried away by various and foreign doctrines. For it is good that the heart be established with grace, not with foods by which those who walked were not benefited.
We have an altar from which they have no right to eat, those officiating at the tabernacle.
For of the beasts whose blood is brought into the holy things for sin by the high priest, the bodies of these are burned outside the camp.
Therefore Jesus also, so that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside the gate.
Let us therefore go forth to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach.
For here we have no enduring city, but we seek that which is coming.
Through him therefore, let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, fruit of lips acknowledging his name.
But do not forget benevolence and fellowship, for God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
Have confidence in those who lead you, and yield yourselves, for they watch for your souls as men who will render account, so that they may do this with joy, and not groaning, for this is unprofitable for you.
Pray about us, for we trust that we have a good conscience, desiring to behave well in all things.
But I urge you to do this even more, so that I may be restored to you sooner.
Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great Shepherd of the sheep by the blood of an eternal covenant-our Lord Jesus-
may he make you fully qualified in every good work in order to do his will, doing in you what is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory into the ages of the ages. Truly.
And I urge you, brothers, bear with the word of exhortation, for I also wrote to you in brief.
Know ye, brother Timothy who was set free is with whom I will see you, if he comes sooner.
Salute all those who lead you, and all the sanctified. The men from Italy salute you.
Grace is with you all. Truly.