And I could not speake vnto you, brethren, as vnto spirituall men, but as vnto carnall, euen as vnto babes in Christ.
I gaue you milke to drinke, and not meat: for yee were not yet able to beare it, neither yet nowe are yee able.
For yee are yet carnall: for whereas there is among you enuying, and strife, and diuisions, are ye not carnall, and walke as men?
For when one sayeth, I am Pauls, and another, I am Apollos, are yee not carnall?
Who is Paul then? and who is Apollos, but the ministers by whome yee beleeued, and as the Lord gaue to euery man?
I haue planted, Apollos watred, but God gaue the increase.
So then, neither is hee that planteth any thing, neither hee that watreth, but God that giueth the increase.
And he that planteth, and he that watreth, are one, and euery man shall receiue his wages, according to his labour.
For we together are Gods labourers: yee are Gods husbandrie, and Gods building.
According to the grace of God giuen to mee, as a skilfull master builder, I haue laide the foundation, and another buildeth thereon: but let euery man take heede how he buildeth vpon it.
For other foundation can no man laie, then that which is laied, which is Iesus Christ.
And if any man builde on this foundation, golde, siluer, precious stones, timber, haye, or stubble,
Euery mans worke shalbe made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shalbe reueiled by the fire: and the fire shall trie euery mans worke of what sort it is.
If any mans worke, that he hath built vpon, abide, he shall receiue wages.
If any mans worke burne, he shall lose, but he shalbe saued himselfe: neuerthelesse yet as it were by the fire.
Knowe ye not that ye are the Temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?
If any man destroy the Temple of God, him shall God destroy: for the Temple of God is holy, which ye are.
Let no man deceiue himselfe: If any man among you seeme to be wise in this world, let him be a foole, that he may be wise.
For the wisdome of this worlde is foolishnesse with God: for it is written, He catcheth the wise in their owne craftinesse.
And againe, The Lord knoweth that the thoughtes of the wise be vaine.
Therefore let no man reioyce in men: for all things are yours.
Whether it be Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death: whether they be things present, or thinges to come, euen all are yours,
And ye Christes, and Christ Gods.