And it happened at the end of twenty years, Solomon had built the house of the LORD and his own house.
As to the cities that Hiram had given to Solomon, Solomon had built them, and he caused the sons of Israel to live there.
And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah, and prevailed against it.
And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities which he built in Hamath.
And he built Beth-horon the upper and Beth-horon the lower, fenced cities with walls, gates, and bars.
And he built Baalath, and all the store cities which Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and the cities of the horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
All the people who were left of the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel,
of their sons who were left after them in the land, whom the sons of Israel did not destroy, Solomon made them subject to forced labor until this day.
And of the sons of Israel, Solomon did not make any servants for his work. But they were men of war, and commanders of his officers, and commanders of his chariots, and his horsemen.
And these were the chief of king Solomon's officers, two hundred and fifty who bore rule over the people.
And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of David to the house which he had built for her. For he said, My wife shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places into which the ark of the LORD has come are holy.
And Solomon offered burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of the LORD which he had built before the porch,
even as the duty of every day required, offering according to the commandment of Moses, on the sabbaths and on the new moons, and on the solemn feasts, three times in the year, even in the Feast of Unleavened Bread, and in the Feast of Weeks, and in the Feast of Tabernacles.
And according to the order of David his father, he appointed the divisions of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their charges, to praise and minister before the priests, as the duty of every day required; and the gatekeepers by their divisions at every gate; for so David the man of God had commanded.
And they did not depart from the command of the king to the priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the treasures.
And all the work of Solomon was prepared until the day of the foundation of the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. And the house of the LORD was complete.
And Solomon went to Ezion-geber, and to Eloth, at the seaside in the land of Edom.
And Hiram sent ships to him by the hand of his servants, and servants who knew the sea. And they went with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took four hundred and fifty talents of gold from there, and brought them to king Solomon.