Hear the word of the LORD, sons of Israel. For the LORD has a quarrel with the people of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land.
There is lying, and swearing, and killing, and stealing, and the committing of adultery; and blood touches blood.
Therefore the land shall mourn, and everyone who dwells in it shall droop, with the beasts of the field and with the birds of the heavens. Yes, the fish of the sea shall also be taken away.
Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another. For your people are as those who strive with the priest.
And you shall stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with you in the night, and I will cut off your mother.
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Because you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you from being priest to Me. Since you have forgotten the law of your God, I will also forget your sons, even I.
As they were increased, so they sinned against Me. I will change their glory into shame.
They eat up the sin of My people, and they set their heart on their iniquity.
And it has become, Like people, like priest; and I will punish them for their ways, and reward them for their doings.
For they shall eat and not have enough. They shall fornicate and not increase, because they have stopped taking heed to the LORD.
Fornication and wine and new wine take away the heart.
My people seek advice from their wooden idols, and their rod declares to them. For the spirit of harlotry has caused them to go astray, and they have gone lusting away from under their God.
They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains, and burn incense on the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because its shade is good. So your daughters shall be harlots, and your brides shall commit adultery.
I will not punish your daughters when they fornicate, nor your wives when they commit adultery. For the men themselves go aside with harlots, and they sacrifice with temple prostitutes. The people who do not understand are thrown down.
Though you, Israel, fornicate, yet do not let Judah become guilty. And do not come to Gilgal, nor go up to Beth-aven, nor swear, As the LORD lives.
For Israel slides back like a backsliding heifer. Now the LORD will feed them as a lamb in a large place.
Ephraim is joined to idols; let him alone.
Their drink is sour; they are continually fornicating; her rulers dearly love shame.
The wind has bound her up in her wings, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.