Beloved! not in every spirit, believe ye, but test the spirits, whether they are, of God; because, many false prophets, have gone out into the world.
Hereby, do ye perceive the Spirit of God:—every spirit that confesseth Jesus Christ as having come, in flesh, is, of God;
And, every spirit that doth not confess Jesus, of God, is not. And, this, is the [spirit] of the Antichrist, touching which ye have heard that it cometh: even now, is it, in the world, already.
Ye, are, of God, dear children, and have overcome them; because, greater, is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.
They, are, of the world: For this cause, of the world, they speak, and the world, unto them, doth hearken.
We, are, of God: he that is getting to understand God, hearkeneth unto us,—whoso is not of God, hearkeneth not unto us: from this, perceive we—the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error.
Beloved! let us be loving one another; because, love, is, of God, and, whosoever loveth, of God, hath been born, and is getting to understand God:
He that doth not love, doth not understand God, because, God, is, love.
Herein, hath the love of God in us, been made manifest, that, his only-begotten Son, God sent into the world, in order that we might live through him.
Herein, is love: not that, we, have loved God, but that, he, loved us, and sent forth his Son, as a propitiation concerning our sins.
Beloved! If, in this way, God, loved us, we also, ought to love, one another.
Upon God, hath no one, at any time, gazed: If we love one another, God, in us, abideth, and, his love, hath been perfected within us.
Hereby, perceive we—that, in him, are we abiding, and, he, in us,—in that, of his Spirit, hath he given unto us.
And, we, for ourselves have gazed, and are bearing witness—that, the Father, sent forth the Son, as Saviour of the world.
Whosoever shall confess, that, Jesus [Christ] is the Son of God, God, in him, abideth, and, he, in God.
And, we, have come to understand and to trust the love which, God, hath, in us. God, is, love; and, he that abideth in love, in God, abideth, and, God, in him [abideth].
Herein, hath love with us, been made perfect,—in order that, boldness, we might have in the day of judging,—in that, just as, He, is, we also, are, in this world.
Fear, existeth not, in love, but, perfect love, casteth fear, outside; because, fear, hath correction: he that feareth, hath not been made perfect, in love.
We, love, because, he, first loved us:—
If one should say, I love God, and should be hating, his brother, false, is he; for, he that doth not love his brother, whom he hath seen, God, whom he hath not seen, he cannot love!
And, this commandment, have we from him,—that, he who loveth God, love, his brother also.