And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face toward the sons of Ammon, and prophesy against them.
And say to the sons of Ammon, Hear the word of the lord Jehovah. Thus says the lord Jehovah: Because thou said, Aha, against my sanctuary when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and against the house of Judah when they went into captivity,
therefore, behold, I will deliver thee to the sons of the east for a possession, and they shall set their encampments in thee, and make their dwellings in thee. They shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thy milk.
And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the sons of Ammon a couching-place for flocks. And ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
For thus says the lord Jehovah: Because thou have clapped thy hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced with all the spite of thy soul against the land of Israel,
therefore, behold, I have stretched out my hand upon thee, and will deliver thee for a spoil to the nations. And I will cut thee off from the peoples, and I will cause thee to perish out of the countries. I will destroy thee, and thou shall know that I am Jehovah.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: Because Moab and Seir say, Behold, the house of Judah is like all the nations,
therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country-Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim-
open to the sons of the east, against the sons of Ammon. And I will give them for a possession, that the sons of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations.
And I will execute judgments upon Moab, and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: Because Edom has dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and has greatly offended, and revenged himself upon them,
therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: I will stretch out my hand upon Edom, and will cut off man and beast from it, and I will make it desolate. From Teman, even to Dedan they shall fall by the sword.
And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel, and they shall do in Edom according to my anger and according to my wrath. And they shall know my vengeance, says the lord Jehovah.
Thus says the lord Jehovah: Because the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with spite of soul to destroy with perpetual enmity,
therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I will stretch out my hand upon the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast.
And I will execute great vengeance upon them with wrathful rebukes. And they shall know that I am Jehovah when I shall lay my vengeance upon them.