These are the statutes and the regulations which ye must observe to do, in the land which Yahweh the God of thy fathers hath given unto thee, to possess it,—all the days that ye are living upon the soil:
Ye must utterly destroy, all the places where the nations whom ye are dispossessing have served their gods,—Upon the high mountains And upon the hills, And under every green tree;
And ye must tear down their altars And break in pieces their pillars, And, their sacred stems, must ye consume with fire, And the carved images of their gods, must ye fell to the ground,—And destroy their name out of that place.
Ye must not do thus unto Yahweh your God;
but, unto the place which Yahweh your God shall choose out of all your tribes, to put his name there,—as his habitation, shall ye ask your way, and come in thither;
and bring in thither your ascending-offerings and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the heave-offering of your hand,—and your vow-offerings and your freewill-offerings, and the firstlings of your herd and of your flock;
and shall eat there before Yahweh your God, and rejoice in all whereunto ye are putting your hand, Ye, and your households,—wherewith Yahweh thy God hath blessed thee.
Ye must not do according to all that we are doing here to-day,—every man, whatsoever is right in his own eyes.
Because ye have not entered as yet,—into the resting-place and into the inheritance which Yahweh thy God is giving unto thee.
But, when ye shall pass over the Jordan, and settle down in the land which, Yahweh your God, is causing you to inherit,—and he shall give you rest from all your enemies round about, and ye shall dwell securely,
then shall it be, that unto the place which Yahweh your God shall choose to make a habitation for his name there, thither, shall ye bring in all that I am commanding you,—your ascending-offerings and your sacrifices your tithes and the heave-offering of your hand, and all your chosen vow-offerings which ye shall vow unto Yahweh.
So shall ye rejoice before Yahweh your God, Ye, and your sons, and your daughters, and your servants and your handmaids,—and the Levite that is within your gates, forasmuch as he hath neither portion nor inheritance with you.
Take heed to thyself, lest thou cause thine ascending-sacrifice to go up in just any place which thou shalt see;
but, in the place which Yahweh shall choose in one of thy tribes, there, shalt thou cause thine ascending-sacrifice to go up, and, there, shalt thou do all that I am commanding thee.
Howbeit of anything thy soul desireth, mayest thou sacrifice and so eat flesh—according to the blessing of Yahweh thy God which he hath bestowed upon thee, in all thy gates, the unclean and the clean may eat thereof,—as the gazelle and as the hart,
Howbeit, the blood, shall ye not eat,—upon the earth, shalt thou pour it out, like water.
Thou mayest not eat within thy gates, the tithe of thy corn or of thy new wine or of thine oil, or the firstlings of thy herd, or of thy flock,—nor any of thy vow-offerings which thou shalt vow, nor thy freewill, offerings, nor the heave-offering of thy hand;
but before Yahweh thy God, shalt thou eat it in the place which Yahweh thy God shall choose, thou and thy son and thy daughter, and thy servant and thy handmaid, and the Levite who is within thy gates,—so shalt thou rejoice before Yahweh thy God, in all whereunto thou puttest thy hand.
Take heed to thyself, lest thou forsake the Levite,—all thy days upon thy soil.
When Yahweh thy God shall enlarge thy boundary—as he hath spoken unto thee—and thou shalt say. I would eat flesh because thy soul desireth to eat flesh, of whatsoever thy soul desireth, mayest thou eat flesh.
When the place which Yahweh thy God shall choose to put his name there, shall be, too far for thee, then shalt thou sacrifice of thy herd or of thy flock which Yahweh hath given unto thee, as I have commanded thee,—and shalt eat, within thine own gates, of whatsoever thy soul desireth.
Even as the gazelle and the hart is eaten, so, shalt thou eat it,—the unclean and the clean, alike shall eat it.
Howbeit firmly refrain from eating the blood; for the blood, is the life,—therefore must thou not eat the life with the flesh.
Thou shalt not eat it,—upon the earth, shalt thou pour it out, like water.
Thou shalt not eat it,—that it may be well with thee and with thy children after thee when thou shalt do that which is right in the eyes of Yahweh.
Howbeit, thy holy things which thou shalt have and thy vow-offerings, shalt thou take and come in, unto the place which Yahweh shall choose;
and shalt offer thine ascending-sacrifices, the flesh and the blood, upon the altar of Yahweh thy God,—and the blood of thine [other] sacrifices, shall be poured out upon the altar of Yahweh thy God, and then the flesh, shalt thou eat.
Observe and hear all these things which I am commanding thee,—that it may be well with thee and with thy children after thee,—unto times age-abiding, so long as thou shalt do that which is pleasing and right in the eyes of Yahweh thy God.
When Yahweh thy God shall cut off from before thee, the nations Whom thou art going in to dispossess,—and thou do dispossess them, and dwell in their land,
take heed to thyself lest thou be thrust after them, after they have been destroyed from before thee,—and lest thou enquire after their gods, saying—In what manner, did these nations serve their gods, that, I too, may do likewise?
Thou shalt not do likewise unto Yahweh thy God,—for everything that is an abomination unto Yahweh which he doth hate, have they done unto their gods, for even their sons and their daughters, do they consume with fire unto their gods.
Whatsoever be the thing which I am commanding you, the same, shall ye observe to do,—thou shalt neither add thereunto, nor take away therefrom.