Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Son of man, write for yourself the name of the day, even of this same day. The king of Babylon has leaned toward Jerusalem this same day.
And speak a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Set on a pot; set it on, and also pour water into it.
Gather its pieces into it, even every good piece, the thigh, and the shoulder. Fill it with the choice bones.
Take the choice of the flock, and also burn the bones under it; make it boil high, and let them boil its bones in it.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose scum is in it, and whose scum has not gone out of it! Bring it out piece by piece; let no lot fall on it.
For her blood is in her midst; she set it on the top of a rock. She did not pour it on the ground, to cover it with dust,
that it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance. I have set her blood on a shining rock, that it should not be covered.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Woe to the bloody city! I will even heap on the pile.
And kindle the fire on wood, consume the flesh, and mix in the spice, and let the bones be burned.
And set it empty on its coals, so that its bronze may be hot and may glow, and that its uncleanness may be melted in it, that the scum of it may be burned away.
She has wearied herself with lies, and her great scum did not go out from her. Her scum shall be in the fire.
In your defilement is wickedness. Because I have purged you and you were not purged, you shall not be purged from your defilement any more, until I have caused My fury to cease on you.
I the LORD have spoken. It shall come, and I will do it. I will not let go, nor will I spare, nor will I repent. According to your ways, and according to your doings, they shall judge you, says the Lord Jehovah.
And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Son of man, behold, I take away from you the desire of your eyes with a stroke. Yet neither shall you mourn nor weep, nor shall your tears run down.
Groan but be silent; make no mourning for the dead; tie your turban on you, and put your sandals on your feet, and do not cover your lips, and do not eat the bread of men.
So I spoke to the people in the morning. And in the evening my wife died, and I did in the morning as I was commanded.
And the people said to me, Will you not tell us what these things mean to us, that you do so?
And I answered them, The word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Speak to the house of Israel. So says the Lord Jehovah: behold, I will defile My sanctuary, the glory of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pities. And your sons and your daughters whom you have left shall fall by the sword.
And you shall do as I have done. You shall not cover your lips nor eat the bread of men.
And your turbans shall be on your heads, and your sandals on your feet. You shall not mourn nor weep; but you shall pine away for your iniquities and mourn to one another.
So Ezekiel is a sign to you. According to all that he has done, you shall do. And when this comes, you shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
Also, son of man, will it not be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that on which they set their minds, their sons and their daughters,
that he who escapes in that day shall come to you to cause you to hear it with your ears?
In that day your mouth shall be open to him who has escaped, and you shall speak and be no more dumb. And you shall be a sign to them, and they shall know that I am the LORD.