Therefore when the Lord knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John
(though Jesus Himself did not baptize, but His disciples),
He left Judea and went away again into Galilee.
And it was necessary for Him to go through Samaria,
Then He came to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
And Jacob's well was there. Jesus, therefore, being wearied with His journey, sat thus upon the well. It was about the sixth hour.
A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me to drink.
(For His disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.)
Then the woman of Samaria said to Him, How do you, being a Jew, ask a drink of me, who am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews do not associate with Samaritans.
Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that says to you, Give Me to drink, you would have asked of Him, and He would have given you living water.
The woman said to Him, Sir, you have no vessel, and the well is deep. From where then do you have that living water?
Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, and his children and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water shall thirst again,
but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst, but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.
The woman said to Him, Sir, give me this water, so that I may not thirst nor come here to draw.
Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband and come here.
The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I have no husband
for you have had five husbands, and he whom you now have is not your husband. In that you spoke truly.
The woman said to Him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.
Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.
Jesus said to her, Woman, believe Me, the hour is coming when you shall neither worship the Father in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem.
You worship what you do not know, we know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews.
But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father seeks such to worship Him.
God is a spirit, and they who worship Him must worship in spirit and in truth.
The woman said to Him, I know that Messiah is coming, who is called Christ. When He has come, He will tell us all things.
Jesus said to her, I AM, He speaking to you.
And upon this His disciples came and marveled that He talked with the woman. However, no one said, What do You seek, or why do You talk with her?
The woman then left her waterpot and went into the city and said to the men,
Come see a man who told me all things that I ever did. Could this be the Christ?
And they went out of the city and came to Him.
In the meantime His disciples were asking Him, saying, Master, eat.
But He said to them, I have food to eat which you do not know.
Therefore the disciples said to one another, No one brought Him anything to eat?
Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me and to finish His work.
Do you not say, There are still four months and then the harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white to harvest already.
And he who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit to life eternal, so that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
And in this is the saying true, One sows and another reaps.
I sent you to reap that on which you bestowed no labor. Other men labored, and you have entered into their labor.
And many of the Samaritans of that city believed upon Him because of the saying of the woman, who testified, He told me all that I ever did.
Then as the Samaritans had come to Him, they begged Him that He would stay with them. And He stayed there two days.
And many more believed because of His own word.
And they said to the woman, Now we believe, not because of your saying, for we have heard Him ourselves and know that this is truly the Christ, the Savior of the world.
And after two days He departed from there and went into Galilee.
For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own native-place.
Then when He had come into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all the things that He did at Jerusalem at the feast; for they also went to the feast.
Then Jesus came again to Cana of Galilee, where He made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum.
When He heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and begged Him that He would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
Then Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe.
The nobleman said to Him, Sir, come down before my child dies.
Jesus said to him, Go, your son lives. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken to him, and he went away.
And as he was now going down, his servants met him and told him, saying, Your son lives.
Then he asked of them the hour when he began to get better. And they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
So the father knew that it was at the same hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives. And he himself believed, and his whole house.
This is the second miracle Jesus did, when He had come out of Judea into Galilee.