I therefore, the prisoner in the Lord, exhort you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called;
with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love,
earnestly endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
There is one body and one Spirit, even as you have been called in one hope of your calling;
one Lord, one faith, one immersion;
one God and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in you all.
But grace has been given to each one of us, according to the measure of the gift of the Christ.
For which reason, the scripture says: When he ascended on high, he led captive a multitude of captives, and gave gifts to men.
But this―He ascended―what does it mean, but that he also descended into the lower earthly regions?
He that descended is also he that ascended high above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.
And he himself gave some to be apostles, and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers;
for the complete instruction of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of the Christ,
till we all come to the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to a measure of stature that fully develops the Christ;
that we might no longer be children, tossed and carried about by every wind of teaching, through the artifice of men, through craftiness used by them for the deliberate planning of deceit;
but speaking truthfully in love, we might grow up in all things, into him who is the head, even the Christ,
from whom the whole body, compactly fitted together, and united by every helping joint, according to the energy in the measure of each part, makes increase of the body, for the building up of itself in love.
This I say, therefore, and appeal to you solemnly in the Lord, that you no longer walk as the other Gentiles walk, in the error of their minds,
darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart;
who, being past feeling, have given themselves up to licentiousness, that they may work all manner of uncleanness with greediness.
But you have not so learned the Christ,
if, indeed, you have heard of him, and been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus:
that, as to your former life, you put off the old man, which is corrupt, according to its deceitful desires,
and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind,
and put on the new man, which, according to the will of God, is created in righteousness and true holiness.
For which reason, putting away lying, speak, every one, truth with his neighbor: for we are members one of another.
Be angry, and yet do not sin: let not the sun go down on your wrath,
nor give place to the devil.
Let him that steals, steal no more: but rather let labor, working with his hands that which is good, that he may have something to give to him that has need.
Let no impure speech come out of your mouth, but whatever is good for needful edification, that it may give grace to the hearers:
and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, with which you have been sealed for the day of redemption.
Let all bitterness and anger and wrath and clamor and impious speaking be put away from you, with all malice:
and be kind to one another, compassionate, forgiving one another, as God in Christ has forgiven you.