The word which came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when he had taken him being bound in chains among all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who were carried away captive to Babylon.
And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah, and said to him, Jehovah thy God pronounced this evil upon this place,
and Jehovah has brought it, and done according as he spoke. Because ye have sinned against Jehovah, and have not obeyed his voice, therefore this thing has come upon you.
And now, behold, I loose thee this day from the chains which are upon thy hand. If it seem good to thee to come with me into Babylon, come, and I will look well to thee, but if it seems ill to thee to come with me into Babylon, forbear. Behold, all the land is before thee, where it seems good and right to thee to go, there go.
Now while he was not yet gone back, he said, Go back then to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people, or go wherever it seems right to thee to go. So the captain of the guard gave him food and a present, and let him go.
Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah, and dwelt with him among the people who were left in the land.
Now when all the captains of the forces who were in the fields, even they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed to him men, and women, and sons, and of the poorest of the land, of those who were not carried away captive to Babylon,
then they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, namely, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.
And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan swore to them and to their men, saying, Fear not to serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.
As for me, behold, I will dwell at Mizpah, to stand before the Chaldeans who shall come to us. But ye, gather ye wine and summer fruits and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that ye have taken.
Likewise when all the Jews that were in Moab, and among the sons of Ammon, and in Edom, and who were in all the countries, heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan,
then all the Jews returned out of all places where they were driven, and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah, to Mizpah, and gathered very much wine and summer fruits.
Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces who were in the fields, came to Gedaliah to Mizpah,
and said to him, Do thou know that Baalis the king of the sons of Ammon has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to take thy life? But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam did not believe them.
Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke to Gedaliah in Mizpah secretly, saying, Let me go, I pray thee, and I will kill Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no man shall know it. Why should he take thy life, that all the Jews who are gathered to thee should be scattered, and the remnant of Judah perish?
But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, Thou shall not do this thing, for thou speak falsely of Ishmael.