In those days, when the disciples were increasing in number, there arose a murmuring of the Hellenists against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.
And the twelve called the multitude of the disciples to them, and said: It is not right that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables.
Therefore, brethren, select from among yourselves seven men, of good report, full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business:
but we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word.
And the speech pleased the whole multitude; and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Prochorus and Nicanor and Timon and Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte of Antioch,
whom they set before the apostles. And when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
And the word of God increased, and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem was greatly multiplied; and a great multitude of the priests became obedient to the faith.
And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and signs among the people.
Then there arose some who belonged to the synagogue called the synagogue of the Freedmen, and some of the Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and of those who were from Cilicia and Asia, and they disputed with Stephen.
And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit with which he spoke.
Then they instigated men to say: We have heard him speak impious words against Moses, and against God.
And they excited the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and took him by violence, and brought him into the Sanhedrim.
And they brought forward false witnesses, who said: This man ceases not to speak words against this holy place, and the law.
For we have heard him say, that this Jesus the Nazarene will destroy this place, and will change the customs which Moses delivered to us.
And all that sat in the Sanhedrim, looking earnestly upon him, saw his face that it was like the face of an angel.