Then sent Hezekiah unto all Israel and Judah, moreover also, letters, wrote he unto Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come unto the house of Yahweh, in Jerusalem,—to keep a passover unto Yahweh, God of Israel.
Yea, the king and his rulers and all the convocation in Jerusalem, had taken counsel,—to keep the passover in the second month.
For they were unable to keep it at that time,—because, the priests, had not hallowed themselves in sufficient numbers, and, the people, had not gathered themselves unto Jerusalem.
And the thing was right, in the eyes of the king,—and in the eyes of all the convocation.
So they established a decree, to make proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beer-sheba even unto Dan, that they should come in to keep a passover unto Yahweh the God of Israel, in Jerusalem,—for, not for a long time, had they kept it as written.
The runners, therefore, went with letters from the hand of the king and his rulers, throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of the king, saying,—Ye sons of Israel, return ye unto Yahweh, God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, and he will return unto the remnant, that which is left to you, out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.
And be not ye like your fathers, or like your brethren, who acted unfaithfully with Yahweh, God of your fathers,—who therefore delivered them up for an astonishment, as, ye yourselves, can see.
Now, do not stiffen your neck, like your fathers,—stretch forth the hand unto Yahweh, and enter into his sanctuary which he hath hallowed unto times age-abiding, and serve Yahweh your God, that he may turn from you the glow of his anger.
For, by your returning unto Yahweh, your brethren and your children, shall find compassion before their captors, so as to return unto this land. For, gracious and compassionate, is Yahweh your God, and will not turn away his face from you, if ye will return unto him.
So the runners were passing from city to city throughout the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, even unto Zebulun,—but they were laughing them to scorn, and mocking them.
Howbeit, some, out of Asher and Manasseh and out of Zebulun, humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem.
Also, upon Judah, came the hand of God, to give them one heart,—to keep the commandment of the king and the rulers, as the word of Yahweh.
And there gathered themselves unto Jerusalem much people, to keep the festival of unleavened cakes, in the second month,—an exceeding large convocation.
Then rose they up, and removed the altars, which were in Jerusalem,-and, all the censers, removed they, and cast them into the Kidron ravine.
Then slaughtered they the passover, on the fourteenth of the second month,—and, the priests and the Levites, were put to shame, and hallowed themselves, and brought in the ascending-sacrifices of the house of Yahweh.
And they stood in their place, according to their regulation, according to the law of Moses the man of God,—the priests, dashing the blood, [which they received] at the hand of the Levites.
For there were many in the convocation, who had not hallowed themselves,—but, the Levites, were over the slaughtering of the passover-lambs, for every one who was, not pure, to hallow him unto Yahweh.
For, the multitude of the people, many out of Ephraim and Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun, had not purified themselves, for they did eat the passover, otherwise than as was written,—for Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, May Yahweh the Good, put a propitiatory-covering about
every one who hath prepared, his heart, to seek God, even Yahweh, God of his fathers,—though not according to the purification of the sanctuary!
And Yahweh hearkened unto Hezekiah, and healed the people.
And so the sons of Israel who were found in Jerusalem kept the festival of unleavened cakes seven days, with great rejoicing,—and the Levites and the priests, were offering praise unto Yahweh day by day, with loud instruments, unto Yahweh.
And Hezekiah spake unto the heart of all the Levites who were giving good instruction respecting Yahweh,—and they did eat the appointed feast seven days, sacrificing the peace-offerings, and offering praise unto Yahweh, God of their fathers.
Then all the convocation took counsel, to keep seven days more,—and they kept seven days, with rejoicing.
For, Hezekiah king of Judah, presented to the convocation, a thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep, and, the rulers, presented to the convocation, a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep,-and, priests in great numbers, hallowed themselves.
So all the convocation of Judah, and the priests and the Levites, and all the convocation that came in out of Israel, rejoiced,—also the sojourners who were coming in out of the land of Israel, and the dwellers in Judah.
Thus was there great rejoicing, in Jerusalem,—for, since the days of Solomon son of David king of Israel, there had not been the like of this, in Jerusalem.
Then rose up the priests the Levites, and blessed the people, and there was a hearkening unto their voice,—and their prayer entered into his holy dwelling-place, even into the heavens.