And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he was going through grain-fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of grain, and ate them, rubbing them with their hands.
And some of the Pharisees said, Why are ye doing that which it is not lawful to do on the sabbath?
And Jesus answering them, said, Have ye not even read what David did, when he was himself hungry, and they who were with him?
how he went into the house of God, and took and ate the show-bread, and gave it also to those who were with him, which it is not lawful for any to eat but the priests alone?
And he said to them, The Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.
And it came to pass on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue, and taught; and there was a man there whose right hand was withered.
And the scribes and the Pharisees were watching whether he would heal on the sabbath, that they might find an accusation against him.
But he knew their thoughts; and he said to the man having the withered hand, Rise, and stand up in the midst. And he arose, and stood up.
And Jesus said to them, I ask you whether it is lawful on the sabbath to do good, or to do evil; to save life, or to kill?
And looking round on them all, he said to him, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so; and his hand was restored.
But they were filled with madness, and conferred with one another as to what they should do to Jesus.
And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into the mountain to pray; and he continued all night in prayer to God.
And when it was day, he called to him his disciples; and he chose from them twelve, whom he also named apostles;
Simon, whom he named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew,
and Matthew and Thomas, and James the Son of Alphaeus, and Simon called the zealot,
and Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
And he came down with them, and stood on a level place with a great multitude of his disciples, and a great crowd of the people from all Judaea and Jerusalem and the sea-coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases.
And they that were harassed with unclean spirits were cured.
And the whole multitude sought to touch him, because power went out of him and healed all.
And raising his eyes toward his disciples, he said, Blessed are ye poor; for yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are ye that hunger now; for ye will be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now; for ye will laugh.
Blessed are ye when men hate you, and when they exclude you, and revile and cast out your name as evil, on account of the Son of man.
Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy; for lo! your reward is great in heaven; for thus their fathers did to the prophets.
But woe to you that are rich! for ye have received your consolation.
Woe to you that are full now! for ye will hunger. Woe to you that laugh now! for ye will mourn and weep.
Woe, when all men speak well of you! for so did their fathers of the false prophets.
But I say to you who hear: Love your enemies; do good to those who hate you;
bless those who curse you; pray for those who are spiteful to you.
To him that smiteth thee on one cheek, offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloak, forbid not to take thy coat also.
Give to every one that asketh of thee; and from him that taketh away thy goods, demand them not again.
And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also in like manner to them.
And if ye love those who love you, what thanks do ye deserve? for sinners also love those who love them.
For if ye do good to those who do good to you, what thanks do ye deserve? even sinners do the same.
And if ye lend to those from whom ye expect to receive, what thanks do ye deserve? even sinners lend to sinners, to receive as much in return.
But love your enemies, and do good and lend, despairing of no one; and your reward will be great, and ye will be sons of the Most High; for he is kind to the unthankful and wicked.
Be merciful, as your Father is merciful.
And judge not, and ye will not be judged; and condemn not, and ye will not be condemned; forgive, and ye will be forgiven;
give, and it will be given to you; good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will men give into your bosom; for with what measure ye mete, it will be measured to you in return.
And he spoke also a parable to them: Can the blind lead the blind? Will they not both fall into a ditch?
A disciple is not above his teacher; but every one when fully instructed will be as his teacher.
And why dost thou look at the mote in thy brother’s eye, and not perceive the beam that is in thine own eye?
How canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me take out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself perceivest not the beam in thine own eye? Hypocrite! first cast the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou wilt see clearly to take out the mote that is in thy brother’s eye.
For there is no good tree that beareth bad fruit; and again, there is no bad tree that beareth good fruit.
For every tree is known by its own fruit; for from thorns men do not gather figs, nor from a bramble-bush do they gather grapes.
The good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and the evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth that which is evil; for out of the abundance of his heart his mouth speaketh.
But why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?
Every one that cometh to me and heareth my sayings and doeth them, I will show you whom he is like.
He is like a man building a house, who dug deep, and laid its foundation on a rock; and when a flood arose, the stream dashed against that house, and could not shake it; because it was well built.
But he that heareth and doeth not, is like a man that built a house upon the earth without a foundation; against which the stream dashed, and it fell at once, and the ruin of that house was great.