And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Take Aaron, and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and a young bull for the sin offering, and two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread.
And gather all the congregation together to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And Moses did as the LORD had commanded him. And the assembly was gathered together to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And Moses said to the assembly, This is the thing which the LORD commanded to be done.
And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.
And he put on him the tunic, and girded him with the girdle, and clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod on him, and girded him with the embroidered girdle of the ephod, and bound it to him with it.
And he put the breast-pocket on him. Also he put in the breast-pocket the Urim and the Thummim.
And he put the miter on his head. Also he put the golden plate, the holy crown, on the miter, on his forehead, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them.
And he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its vessels, both the laver and its base, to sanctify them.
And he poured of the anointing oil on Aaron's head and anointed him, to sanctify him.
And Moses brought Aaron's sons and put tunics on them, and girded them with girdles, and bound turbans on them, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And he brought the young bull for the sin offering. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the young bull for the sin offering.
And he killed it. And Moses took the blood and put it on the horns of the altar all around with his finger, and purified the altar, and poured the blood at the bottom of the altar, and sanctified it, to make reconciliation on it.
And he took all the fat on the inward parts, and the fold above the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat, and Moses burned it on the altar.
But the young bull and its hide, its flesh and its dung, he burned with fire outside the camp, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And he brought the ram for the burnt offering. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
And he killed it. And Moses sprinkled the blood on the altar all around.
And he cut the ram into pieces. And Moses burned the head and the pieces and the fat.
And he washed the inward parts and the legs in water. And Moses burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt sacrifice for a sweet savor, a fire offering to the LORD, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And he brought the second ram, the ram of consecration. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
And he killed it. And Moses took of the blood of it, and put it on the tip of Aaron's right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot.
And he brought Aaron's sons, and Moses put the blood on the tip of their right ear, and on the thumbs of their right hands, and on the great toes of their right feet. And Moses sprinkled the blood on the altar all around.
And he took the fat, and the fat tail, and all the fat on the inward parts, and the fold above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right shoulder.
And he took one unleavened cake out of the basket of unleavened bread that was before the LORD, and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the fat, and on the right shoulder.
And he put all on Aaron's hands, and on his sons' hands, and waved them for a wave offering before the LORD.
And Moses took them off their hands and burned them on the altar on the burnt offering. They were consecrations for a sweet savor. It is a fire offering to the LORD.
And Moses took the breast and waved it for a wave offering before the LORD. It was Moses' part of the ram of consecration, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood which was on the altar, and sprinkled it on Aaron, and on his garments, and on his sons, and on his sons' garments with him. And he sanctified Aaron, his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.
And Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, Boil the flesh at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And eat it there with the bread in the basket of consecrations, as I have commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it.
And that which remains of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn with fire.
You shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation seven days, until the days of your consecration are at an end. For He shall consecrate you seven days.
As He has done this day, the LORD has commanded you to do, to make an atonement for you.
And you shall remain at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation day and night seven days, and keep the charge of the LORD, so that you do not die. For so I am commanded.
And Aaron and his sons did all the things which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.