And when they came near to Jerusalem unto Bethphage and Bethany at the mount of Olives, he sends forth two of his disciples
and said unto them, Go to the place which is before you; and as soon as ye are entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied, upon which no man ever sat; loose him and bring [him].
And if anyone says unto you, Why do ye this? say ye that the Lord has need of him, and straightway he will send him here.
And they went and found the colt tied by the door outside between two ways, and they loosed him.
And some of those that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt?
Then they said unto them even as Jesus had commanded, and they let them go.
They brought the colt to Jesus and cast their garments on him, and he sat upon him.
And many spread their garments in the way, and others cut down leaves off the trees and spread [them] in the way.
And those that went before and those that followed cried out, saying, Hosanna; Blessed [is] he that comes in the name of the Lord;
blessed [be] the kingdom of our father David, that comes in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest.
And the Lord entered into Jerusalem and into the temple; and when he had looked around upon all things, and it being now late, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve.
And the next day when they left Bethany, he was hungry,
and seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing upon her; but when he came to her, he found nothing but leaves, for the time of figs was not [yet].
Then Jesus, answering, said to the fig tree, Never again shall anyone eat fruit of thee [hereafter] for ever. And his disciples heard [it].
And they come to Jerusalem, and Jesus, entering into the temple, began to cast out those that sold and bought in the temple and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers and the seats of those that sold doves
and would not suffer that any man should carry [any] vessel through the temple.
And he taught them, saying, Is it not written that my house shall be called House of prayer by all the nations? but ye have made it a den of thieves.
And the scribes and the princes of the priests heard [it] and sought how they might kill him, for they feared him because all the multitude was astonished at his doctrine.
But when evening was come, Jesus went out of the city.
And passing by in the morning, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots.
Then Peter, remembering, said unto him, Master, behold, the fig tree which thou didst curse is withered away.
And Jesus, answering, said unto them, Have faith in God.
For verily I say unto you that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Remove thyself and cast thyself into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart but shall believe that what he says shall be done whatsoever he says shall be done unto him.
Therefore I say unto you that everything that ye ask for, praying, believe that ye receive it, and it shall come upon you.
And when ye are praying, forgive if ye have anything against anyone, so that your Father who [is] in the heavens will also forgive you your trespasses.
For if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in the heavens forgive your trespasses.
And they returned to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the princes of the priests and the scribes and the elders
and say unto him, By what faculty doest thou these things? and who gave thee this faculty to do these things?
Then Jesus, answering, said unto them, I will also ask of you one word, and respond unto me, and I will tell you with what faculty I do these things.
The baptism of John, was [it] of heaven or of men? Respond unto me.
Then they thought inside themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven, he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?
But if we shall say, Of men, we fear the people, for everyone judged regarding John that he truly was a prophet.
And answering, they said unto Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus, answering, said unto them, Neither shall I tell you with what faculty I do these things.: