And passing by, He saw a man blind from birth.
And His disciples asked Him, saying, Teacher, who sinned, this one, or his parents, that he was born blind?
Jesus answered, Neither this one nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God might be revealed in him.
It is necessary for Me to work the works of Him who sent Me while it is day. Night comes when no one is able to work.
While I am in the world, I am the Light of the world.
Saying these things, He spat on the ground and made clay out of the spittle, and anointed clay on the blind one's eyes.
And He said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which translated is Sent. Then he went and washed, and came seeing.
Then the neighbors and those who formerly saw him, that he was blind, said, Is this one not the one who had sat and begged?
Some said, It is he; and others, He is like him. That one said, I am the one .
Then they said to him, How were your eyes opened?
He answered and said, A man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes, and told me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. And going and washing I received sight.
Then they said to him, Where is that one? He said, I do not know.
They brought him to the Pharisees, the one once blind.
And it was a sabbath when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.
Then also the Pharisees again asked him how he received sight. And he said to them, He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
Then some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because He does not keep the sabbath. Others said, How can a man, a sinner, do such miracles? And there was a division among them.
They said to the blind one again, What do you say about him, because he opened your eyes? And he said, He is a prophet.
Then the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he was blind and received sight, until they called the parents of him having received sight.
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, whom you say that he was born blind? Then how does he now see?
His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind.
But how he now sees, we do not know; or who opened his eyes, we do not know. He is of age, ask him. He will speak about himself.
His parents said these things because they feared the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Him as Christ, he would be expelled from the synagogue.
Because of this, his parents said, He is of age, ask him.
Then a second time they called the man who was blind, and they said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner.
Then he answered and said, Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know; that being blind, now I see.
And they said to him again, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?
He answered them, I told you already, and you did not hear. Why do you wish to hear again? Do you also desire to become disciples of Him?
Then they reviled him and said, You are a disciple of that one, but we are disciples of Moses.
We know that God has spoken by Moses, but this one, we do not know from where he is.
The man answered and said to them, For there is a marvel in this, that you do not know from where He is, and He opened my eyes.
But we know that God does not hear sinful ones, but if anyone is God fearing, and does His will, He hears that one.
From the beginning of the age it was never heard that anyone opened the eyes of one having been born blind.
If this One was not from God, He could not do anything.
They answered and said to him, You were born wholly in sins, and do you teach us? And they threw him outside.
Jesus heard that they threw him outside, and finding him, He said to him, Do you believe into the Son of God?
And he answered and said, Who is He, Lord, that I may believe into Him?
And Jesus said to him, Even you have seen Him, and He speaking with you is that One.
And he said, I believe, Lord! And he worshiped Him.
And Jesus said, I came into this world for judgment, that the ones who do not see may see, and they who see may become blind.
And those of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things, and said to Him, Are we also blind?
Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no sin. But now you say, We see; therefore, your sin remains.