And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
And when he saw them, Jacob said, This is the camp of God. And he called the name of that place, Refuge.
And Jacob sent messengers before his face to his brother Esau, to the land of Seir, the field of Edom.
And he commanded them, saying, You shall say to my lord, to Esau: Your servant Jacob says this: I have sojourned with Laban and remained until now.
And it is mine to have oxen, and asses, flocks, and slaves and slave-girls are mine. And I have sent to tell my lord, to find favor in your eyes.
And the messengers came back to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau, and also he is coming to meet you, and four hundred men are with him.
And Jacob was afraid, and he was very distressed. And he divided the people with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, into two camps.
And he said, If Esau comes to the one company and strikes it, then it will be, the company that is left shall escape.
And Jacob said, Oh God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, Jehovah, who said to me, Go back to your land and to your kindred and I will deal well with you.
I am not worthy of all the mercies and all the truth which You have done for Your servant, for I passed over this Jordan with my staff, and now I have become two companies.
Deliver me, I pray, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau; for I fear him, lest he come and strike me, mother to sons.
And You said, I will surely deal well with you, and I will make your seed like the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.
And he remained there that night. And he took a present from what came into his hand, for his brother Esau:
two hundred she-goats, twenty he-goats, two hundred rams,
thirty nursing camels with their thirty colts, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty she-asses and ten young asses.
And he gave into the hand of his slaves every drove by itself. And he said to his slaves, Pass over before my face and put a space between drove and drove.
And he commanded the first ones, saying, When my brother Esau meets you and asks, saying, Whose are you, and where do you go, and whose are these before your face?
Then you will say, Your servant Jacob's. It is a present sent to my lord, to Esau; and, behold, also he is behind us.
And he also commanded the second, also the third, even all the ones going after the droves, saying, You shall speak this word to Esau when you find him.
And you shall also say, Behold, your servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will cover his face by the present, the one going before my face, and afterward I will see his face; perhaps he will lift up my face.
And the present passed before his face, and he remained in the camp that night.
And he rose up that night and took his two wives, and his two slave-girls, and his eleven children. And he passed over the ford Jabbok.
And he took them and sent them over the stream, and sent over that which was his.
And Jacob was left alone. And a Man wrestled with him until the ascending of the dawn.
And He saw that He had not prevailed against him. And He touched on his hip socket, and Jacob's hip socket was unhinged as he wrestled with Him.
And He said, Send me away, for the dawn has ascended. And he said, I will not let you go unless You bless me.
And He said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob.
And He said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, because you have wrestled with God and with men, and have prevailed.
And Jacob asked and said, Please reveal Your name. And He said, Why this that you ask about My name? And He blessed him there.
And Jacob called the name of the place Penuel, because I saw God face to face, and my life is delivered.
And the sun rose on him as he passed over Penuel, and he was limping on his thigh.
On account of this the sons of Israel do not eat the sinew of the thigh that is on the hip socket until this day, because He touched on Jacob's hip socket, on the sinew of the thigh.