And Job answered and said:
Oh that my vexation were carefully weighed, and my ruin lifted in the balances together!
For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas; on account of this my words have been rash.
For the arrows of the Almighty are within me; their fury is drinking my spirit; the terrors of God are set against me.
Does the wild ass bray over tender grass? Or does the ox low over his fodder?
Are tasteless things eaten without salt? Or is there taste in the slime of an egg?
My soul refuses to touch them; they are sickening food to me.
Who will give it that my desire might come, and God would grant my longing;
and God would be willing and crush me; let loose His hand and cut me off?
And it is yet my comfort; and I would exult in pain not spared; for I have not hidden the words of the Holy One.
What is my strength that I should wait? And what is my end that I should prolong my life?
Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh bronze?
Is not my help within me? And is wisdom driven from me?
To the faint, mercy is due from his friend; for he forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
My brothers have dealt deceitfully, like the torrent; like the streams of torrents, they vanish;
those darkened from ice, in which the snow hides itself.
At the time they are warmed, they are cut off; when it is hot, they vanish from their place.
The paths of their way bend; they go to nothing, and are lost.
The troops of Tema looked; the travelers of Sheba hoped for them;
they were ashamed because they had hoped; they came there, and were ashamed.
Surely now you have become like it; you see my dismay, and are afraid.
Did I indeed say, Give to me? Or, offer a bribe for me from your wealth?
Or, Deliver me from a foe's hand? Or, Redeem me from the oppressors hand?
Teach me, and I will be silent; and cause me to understand in what I have erred.
Right words are powerful, but what does your arguing argue?
Do you intend to criticize words, and the speeches of one who is hopeless, that are as wind?
Yea, you cause even an orphan to fall; and you bargain over your friend.
And now, please look on me. For if I lie, it is before your face.
Turn back, I beseech you; let there be no wrong. Yea, return again, for my righteousness is in it.
Is there wrong in my tongue? Cannot my palate discern desirable things?