The righteous one perishes, and no one lays it to heart; yea, merciful men are gathered, with no one discerning that the righteous is gathered from the face of evil.
He shall enter peace; they shall rest on their couches, walking in his uprightness.
But you, draw near here, sons of the sorceress, seed of the adulterer and playing the harlot.
On whom are you making sport? On whom do you make a wide mouth and draw out the tongue? Are you not children of transgression, a lying seed,
being inflamed with idols under every green tree, slaughtering the children in the torrent beds, under the clefts of the rocks?
Your lot is in the torrent's smoothness; they, they are your portion; even to them you have poured a drink offering; you have offered a food offering. Should I be consoled over these?
You have set your couch on a lofty and high mountain; yea, you went up there to sacrifice a sacrifice.
And you have set up your memorial behind the door and post. For you uncovered yourself from Me and went up; you enlarged your couch; and you cut covenant with them; you loved their couch; at a hand you looked.
And you went to the king with oil and multiplied your perfume. And you sent your messengers far away, and lowered yourself to Sheol.
You were wearied in the length of your way; you did not say, Despair! You found the life of your hand, so you were not sick.
And whom have you dreaded and feared? You have lied and have not remembered Me, not laying it on your heart. Have I not been silent, even from forever, and you have not feared Me?
I will reveal your righteousness and your works, and they will not benefit you.
When you cry, let your gathering deliver you; but the wind shall bear away all of them; vanity takes them. But he who takes refuge in Me shall inherit the land and possess My holy mountain.
And he shall say, Raise up! Raise up! Clear the way! Make the stumbling block rise from the way of My people.
For so says the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity, and His name is Holy: I dwell in the high and holy place, even with the contrite and humble of spirit; to make live the spirit of the humble and to make live the heart of the contrite ones.
For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry, for the spirit would faint before Me, even the breaths I have made.
For I was angry and struck him for the iniquity of his gain; I hid Myself and was angry; yet he went, turning in his heart's way.
His ways I have seen, but I will heal him, and will lead him and restore comforting to him and to his mourners.
I create the fruit of the lips: peace, peace, to the ones far off and near, says Jehovah, and I will heal him.
But the wicked are like the driven sea, which cannot be quiet, and its waves cast up mire and dirt.
There is no peace to the wicked, says my God.