And he went out from thence, and cometh into his own country; and his disciples follow him.
And when the sabbath was come, he began to teach in the synagogue. And most people when they heard him were astonished, saying, Whence hath this man these things? And what is the wisdom which is given him? And how is it that such miracles are wrought by his hands?
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joses, and Judah, and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? And they took offence at him.
And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country, and among his own kindred, and in his own house.
And he could not do any miracle there, except that he laid his hand upon a few sick persons, and cured them.
And he wondered at their want of faith. And he went about the surrounding villages teaching.
And he calleth to him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two and two; and gave them power over the unclean spirits;
and commanded them that they should take nothing for the way but a staff only; no bread, no bag, no money in their girdle;
but to be shod with sandals; and, Do not put on two coats.
And he said to them, Wherever ye enter a house, there abide fill ye leave that place.
And whatever place shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye go thence, shake off the dust under your feet as a testimony to them.
And they went out and preached that men should repent;
and they cast out many demons, and anointed with oil many sick persons, and healed them.
And king Herod heard of him (for his name was spread abroad), and he said, John the Baptizer hath risen from the dead, and therefore do these powers work in him. But others said, It is Elijah.
And others said, It is a prophet, as one of the prophets.
But Herod hearing of it said, John, whom I beheaded, hath risen again.
For Herod himself had sent forth and seized John, and bound him in prison, on account of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife; for he had married her.
For John had said to Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother’s wife.
And Herodias was enraged against him, and wished to put him to death, but could not.
For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and was regardful of him; and on hearing him, was in much anxiety, and listened to him gladly.
And a convenient day having come, when Herod on his birthday made a supper for his nobles and chief captains and the principal men of Galilee,
and the daughter of Herodias came in and danced, she pleased Herod and those at table with him; and the king said to the damsel, Ask of me whatever thou wilt, and I will give it thee.
And he swore to her, Whatever thou shalt ask of me, I will give thee, to the half of my kingdom.
And she went out and said to her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptizer.
And she came in immediately with haste to the king, and asked, saying, I desire that thou wilt give me immediately on a platter the head of John the Baptist.
And the king was exceedingly sorry; but on account of his oaths, and of those at table with him, he would not refuse her.
And the king immediately sent one of his guards, and ordered his head to be brought. And he went and beheaded him in the prison,
and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the damsel; and the damsel gave it to her mother.
And his disciples, when they heard of it, came and took up his body, and laid it in a tomb.
And the apostles gather together to Jesus, and told him all which they had done and taught.
And he saith to them, Come ye by yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a while. For there were many coming and going; and they had no leisure, even to eat.
And they went away into a desert place in the boat apart.
And many saw them departing, and knew them, and ran together on foot thither from all the cities, and arrived before them.
And when he came forth, he saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion for them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd; and he began to teach them many things.
And late in the day his disciples came to him, and said, This is a desert place, and it is now late;
send them away, that they may go into the surrounding fields and villages, and buy themselves something to eat.
But he answering said to them, Give ye them to eat. And they say to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred denaries’ worth of bread, and give them to eat?
He saith to them, How many loaves have ye? Go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two fishes.
And he ordered them to make all lie down in companies upon the green grass.
And they lay down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties.
And taking the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven and blessed, and broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples to set before them; and the two fishes he divided among them all.
And they all ate, and were filled.
And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, and of the fishes.
And they who ate of the loaves were five thousand men.
And he immediately constrained his disciples to get into the boat, and to go before to the other side to Bethsaida, while he sent the multitude away.
And when he had taken leave of them, he went away into the mountain to pray.
And when evening came, the boat was in the midst of the lake; and he was alone on the land.
And when he saw them toiling hard in rowing, for the wind was against them, about the fourth watch of the night he cometh to them, walking upon the lake. And he would have passed by them;
but they, seeing him walking upon the lake, thought it was a spectre, and cried out.
For they all saw him, and were terrified. But he immediately spoke with them, and saith to them, Be of good cheer; it is I, be not afraid.
And he went up to them into the boat, and the wind ceased. And they were exceedingly astonished, beyond measure.
For they did not consider the matter of the loaves; but their heart was hardened.
And crossing over, they came to land, to Gennesaret; and anchored there.
And when they had come out of the boat, the people immediately knowing who he was,
ran through all that region, and began to carry about on beds those that were sick to the place where they heard he was.
And wherever he entered into villages or cities or the open country, they laid the sick in the market-places, and besought him that they might touch if it were but the fringe of his garment; and as many as touched him were made well.