A wise judge will judge his people, and the leadership of an understanding man will be steadfast.
As the judge of the people is, so also are his assistants. And whatever kind of man the ruler of a city is, of such a kind also are those who live in it.
A foolish king will be the ruin of his people. For cities will be inhabited through the understanding of those with power.
Power over the earth is in the hand of God, and, in due time, he will raise up a helpful leader over the earth.
The prosperity of a man is in the hand of God, and he will place his honor above the face of the scribe.
You should forget all injury done to you by your neighbor, and you should do nothing among the works of injury.
Arrogance is hateful in the sight of God and of men. And all iniquity among the nations is abominable.
A kingdom is transferred from one people to another because of injustices, and injuries, and contempt, and every kind of deceit.
But nothing is more wicked than a greedy man. Why should that which is earth and ashes be arrogant?
There is nothing more iniquitous than to love money. For such a one has sold even his own soul. For in his life, he casts aside his innermost being.
All power is of short life. A prolonged sickness is of grave concern to a physician.
A physician causes a sickness to be shortened. So also, a king is here today, and tomorrow he will die.
For when a man dies, he will inherit serpents, and wild beasts, and worms.
The beginning of the arrogance of man is apostasy from God.
For his heart has withdrawn from the One who made him. For arrogance is the beginning of all sin. Whoever holds to it, will be filled with evil words, and it will overthrow him in the end.
Because of this, the Lord has dishonored the gatherings of the evil, and he has destroyed them, even unto the end.
God has destroyed the seats of arrogant leaders, and he has caused the meek to be seated in their place.
The roots of arrogant nations, God has dried up, and the humble among these nations, he has planted.
The Lord has overthrown the lands of the Gentiles, and he has utterly destroyed them, even to their foundation.
He has dried up some of them, and he has utterly destroyed them, and he has caused their memory to depart from the earth.
God has abolished the memory of the arrogant, and he has left behind only the memory of those who are humble in mind.
Arrogance was not created for men, nor was an angry temperament created for the gender of women.
Those who fear God among the offspring of men will be honored. But those among the offspring who ignore the commandments of the Lord will be dishonored.
In the midst of his brothers, a ruler has honor. And those who fear the Lord will have honor in his eyes.
The fear of God is the glory of the wealthy, and of the honorable, and of the poor.
Do not choose to despise a just man who is poor, and do not choose to magnify a sinful man who is rich.
The great man, and the judge, and the powerful have honor. But no one is greater than he who fears God.
Those who are free will serve an understanding servant. And a prudent and disciplined man will not murmur at correction. But an ignorant man will not be honored.
Do not choose to extol yourself in doing your work, and do not be unproductive during the time of distress.
He who works, and so abounds in all things, is better than he who boasts, and so lacks bread.
Son, preserve your soul in meekness, and give it honor according to its merit.
Who will justify one who sins in his soul? And who will honor one who dishonors his soul?
The poor man is glorified by his discipline and fear. And there is a man who is honored because of his substance.
But if someone is glorified in poverty, how much more in substance? And whoever is glorified in substance, let him fear poverty.