Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came to the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared.
And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb;
and on entering they found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed about this, lo! two men stood by them in glittering apparel;
and when they were terrified, and bowed their faces to the earth, the men said to them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?
He is not here, but hath risen. Remember how be spoke to you while yet in Galilee,
saying, The Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinners, and be crucified, and rise again on the third day.
And they remembered his words.
And returning from the tomb, they told all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest.
It was Mary the Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James; and the other women with them told these things to the apostles.
And these words seemed to them as an idle tale, and they did not believe them.

And lo! two of them were going the same day to a village called Emmaus, distant a hundred and sixty furlongs from Jerusalem.
And they were conversing together about all those things which had taken place.
And it came to pass, while they were conversing and reasoning, that Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.
But their eyes were restrained from knowing him.
And he said to them, What discourse is this which ye have one with another, as ye are walking? And they stood sad.
And one, whose name was Cleopas, answering said to him, Art thou the only sojourner in Jerusalem that doth not know the things which have come to pass there in these days?
And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, The things relating to Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty in word and deed before God and all the people;
and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
But we are hoping that it is he who is to redeem Israel; moreover, besides all this, it is the third day since these things were done.
And furthermore certain women of our company have amazed us; for going early to the tomb,
they did not find his body, and came, saying that they had even seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.
And some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it to be as the women had said; but him they saw not.
And he said to them, O dull of apprehension, and slow of heart to believe all that the Prophets have spoken!
Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things, and enter into his glory?
And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets he explained to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself.
And they drew near to the village whither they were going; and he made as though he would go further.
But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is towards evening, and the day is now far spent. And he went in to stay with them.
And it came to pass, as he was at table with them, that he took the bread, and blessed it, and broke and gave it to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight.
And they said one to another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us on the way, while he opened to us the Scriptures?
And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem; and they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together,
saying, The Lord hath risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.
And they told what had happened on the way, and how he became known to them in the breaking of the bread.
And while they were thus speaking, he himself stood in the midst of them.
But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they beheld a spirit.
And he said to them, Why are ye troubled? and why do doubts arise in your hearts?
See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.

And while they still disbelieved for joy, and wondered, he said to them, Have ye anything here to eat?
And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish.
And he took and ate it before them.
And he said to them, These are my words which I spoke to you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which are written in the Law of Moses, and the Prophets, and the Psalms, concerning me.
Then he opened their understanding, that they might understand the Scriptures.
And he said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer, and should rise from the dead on the third day,
and that repentance for the remission of sins should be preached in his name among all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
Ye are witnesses of these things.
And I send forth upon you that which hath been promised by my Father; but do ye tarry in the city, until ye are endued with power from on high.
And he led them out as far as to Bethany; and he lifted up his hands and blessed them.
And it came to pass, while he blessed them, that he parted from them.
And they returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
and were continually in the temple, praising God.