And on the day of Pentecost they were all together in one place.
And suddenly there came out of heaven a sound, as of a rushing mighty wind; and it filled the whole house where they were sitting;
and there appeared to them tongues as of fire, distributing themselves; and one sat upon each of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, even as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Now there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven.
And when this sound took place, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because every one heard them speaking in his own language.
And they were amazed, and marveled, saying, Behold, are not all these who speak Galilaeans?
and how is it that we every one hear them in our own language, wherein we were born?
Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and those who inhabit Mesopotamia, Judaea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and Romans who sojourn here, both Jews and Proselytes,
Cretans and Arabians—how is it that we hear them speaking in our tongues the wonderful works of God?
And they were all amazed and were in doubt, saying one to another, What can this mean?
Others making sport of it, said, They are full of new wine.
But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said to them, Men of Judea, and all that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known to you, and hearken to my words.
For these are not drunken, as ye suppose; for it is the third hour of the day;
but this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel,
"It shall be in the last days, saith God, that I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters will prophesy, and your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams;
and even on my servants, and on my handmaids, I will pour out of my Spirit in those days, and they will prophesy.
And I will show wonders in heaven above, and signs on the earth beneath, blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke;
the sun will be turned into darkness and the moon into blood, before the day of the Lord cometh, the great and notable day.
And it shall be that every one that calleth on the name of the Lord shall be saved."
Men of Israel, hear these words! Jesus the Nazarene, a man approved of God to you by miracles, and wonders, and signs, which God wrought by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves know,—
this man, being delivered up by the settled purpose and foreknowledge of God, ye, by the hand of godless men, crucified and slew.
But God raised him up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be held by it.
For David saith concerning him, "I saw the Lord always before me; because he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved.
Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue exulted; moreover also, my flesh shall dwell in hope;
because thou wilt not abandon my soul to the underworld, nor wilt thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption.
Thou didst make known to me the ways of life; thou wilt make me full of joy with thy countenance."
Brethren, I may speak to you with freedom of the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is among us to this day.
Being then a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn to him with an oath that he would set one sprung from his loins upon his throne,
he foresaw and spoke of the resurrection of Christ, that neither was he abandoned to the underworld, nor did his flesh see corruption.
This Jesus God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.
Being therefore exalted by the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit, he hath poured forth this, which ye both see and hear.
For David did not ascend into the heavens; but he himself saith, The Lord said to my lord, "Sit thou on my right hand,
until I make thine enemies thy footstool."
Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God hath made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom ye crucified.
And when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what must we do?
But Peter said to them, Repent, and let every one of you be baptized to the name of Jesus Christ for forgiveness of sins, and ye will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
For the promise is to you and to your children, and to all that are afar off, as many as the Lord our God shall call.
And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this perverse generation.
They therefore received his word, and were baptized; and there were added on that day about three thousand souls.
And they were constantly attending on the teaching of the apostles, and the imparting [of their substance], the breaking of bread, and the prayers.
And fear came upon every soul; and many wonders and signs were wrought through the apostles.
And all that believed were together, and had all things common;
and they sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all, as any one had need.
And attending daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread in a private house, they partook of their food with gladness and singleness of heart,
praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were in the way of salvation.