But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession,
and kept back part of the price, and his wife was conscious of it; and he brought a certain part of it, and laid it at the feet of the apostles.
But Peter said: Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart, that you should attempt to deceive the Holy Spirit, and keep back part of the price of the land?
While it remained unsold, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your own disposal? Why have you purposed this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God.
And when Ananias heard these words, he fell down, and expired. And great fear came on all that heard these things.
And the young men arose and wound him in his mantle, and carried him out, and buried him.
And after an interval of about three hours, his wife, not knowing what had been done, came in.
And Peter answered her: Tell me, did you sell the land for so much? She replied: Yes; for so much.
But Peter said to her: Why is it that you have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they shall carry you out.
And she immediately fell down at his feet, and expired. And the young men came in and found her dead; and they carried her out, and buried her by the side of her husband.
And great fear came on all the church, and on all that heard these things.
And many signs and wonders were done among the people by the hands of the apostles; (and they were all with one consent in Solomon’s porch.
And no one of the rest durst join himself to them; but the people magnified them.
And believers in the Lord were more and more added to them, multitudes both of men and women;)
so that they brought the sick out along the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that even the shadow of Peter, as he passed along, might fall on some of them.
And many people of the cities round about came to Jerusalem, bringing the sick, and those who were troubled by evil spirits, all of whom were cured.
But the chief priest arose, and all that were with him, (which is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with indignation;
and they laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in the public prison.
But an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison by night, and brought them out, and said:
Go, stand in the temple, and speak to the people all the words of this life.
And having heard this, they entered the temple, early in the morning, and taught. But the chief priest, and those who were with him, came and called together the Sanhedrim, and all the eldership of the sons of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
But when the attendants came, and found them not in the prison, they returned and reported,
saying: We found the prison closed with all safety, and the guards standing before the doors; but when we had opened, we found no one within.
When the priest and the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were in doubt about them, what this could mean.
And some one came and reported to them: Behold, the men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.
Then went the captain with the attendants, and brought them without violence; for they feared the people, lest they should be stoned.
And when they had brought them, they made them stand before the Sanhedrim; and the chief priest asked them,
saying: Did we not strictly charge you not to teach in this name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring this man’s blood upon us.
But Peter and the apostles answered and said: We must obey God rather than men.
The God of our fathers has raised up Jesus, whom you slew by hanging him on a tree.
Him has God exalted to his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, in order to give to Israel repentance and remission of sins:
and we are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit also, whom God has given to them that obey him.
And when they heard this, they were enraged; and they determined to put them to death.
Then arose a certain man in the Sanhedrim, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, who was honored by all the people; and he commanded them to put the apostles out for a little while,
and said to them: Men of Israel, consider well with yourselves what you are about to do to these men.
For before these days Theudas arose, declaring himself to be some great one; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves; and he was slain; and all, as many as believed him, were scattered and brought to naught.
After this man, Judas the Galilean arose, in the days of the enrollment, and drew over many people after him; and he was destroyed, and all, as many as believed him, were scattered.
And now I say to you, keep away from these men, and let them alone; for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to an end;
but if it is of God, you can not bring it to an end: and take heed, lest you be found fighting also against God.
And they were persuaded by him; and when they had called the apostles in and scourged them, they commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Then, they went from the presence of the Sanhedrim, rejoicing that they were thought worthy to suffer shame for his name’s sake.
And daily in the temple, and from house to house, they ceased not to teach and to preach Jesus the Christ.