And, Saul, was taking pleasure with them in his death. Moreover there arose, in that day, a great persecution against the assembly which was in Jerusalem; [and], all, were scattered abroad throughout the countries of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Howbeit reverent men assisted at the burial of Stephen, and made great lamentation over him.
But, Saul, went on to lay waste the assembly, along the houses, going in, and, dragging off both men and women, was
They, indeed, therefore, who were scattered abroad, passed through, telling the good-news of the word;
And, Philip, going down unto the city of Samaria, proclaimed unto them the Christ.
And the multitudes began to give heed unto the things that were being spoken by Philip, with one accord, when they heard him, and saw the signs which he was working.
For, from many who had impure spirits, shouting with a loud voice, they were going out, and, many that were paralysed and lame, were cured.
And there came to be great joy in that city.
But, a certain man named Simon, was already in the city, practising magical arts, and astonishing the nation of Samaria,—saying that himself was someone great:
Unto whom all were giving heed, from small even to great, saying—This, is the Power of God, which is called Great.
And they were giving heed to him, because that, for a considerable time, with his magical arts, he had astonished them.
But, when they believed Philip telling the good news concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they proceeded to be immersed, both men and women.
And, Simon himself also, believed; and, having been immersed, was in constant attendance on Philip,—and, beholding signs and great works of power coming to pass, was astonished.
And the Apostles who were in Jerusalem, hearing that Samaria had welcomed the word of God, sent out unto them Peter and John;
Who, indeed, going down, prayed for them, that they might receive Holy Spirit;—
For, not yet, had it, upon any one of them, fallen, but, only, to begin with, they had been immersed into the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then, proceeded they to lay their hands upon them, and they were receiving Holy Spirit.
But Simon, seeing that, through means of the laying on of the hands of the Apostles, the Spirit was being given, offered unto them money,
Saying—Give unto me also this authority,—in order that, on whomsoever may lay my hands, he may receive Holy Spirit.
And Peter said unto him—Thy silver, with thee, go to destruction! Because, the free-gift of God, thou didst suppose could, with money, be obtained!
Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter; for, thy heart, is not upright before God.
Repent, therefore, from this thy baseness, and entreat of the Lord—whether, after all, the purpose of thy heart shall be forgiven thee;
For see that thou servest as a gall-root of bitterness, and a bond of unrighteousness.
And Simon, answering, said—Entreat ye, in my behalf, unto the Lord; that, nothing, may come upon me, of the things whereof ye have spoken!
They, therefore, having fully borne witness, and spoken the word of the Lord, began their return unto Jerusalem, and, unto many villages of the Samaritans, were they telling the glad tidings.
And, a messenger of the Lord, spake unto Philip, saying—Arise, and be journeying along southward, unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza,—the same, is desert.
And, arising, he journeyed. And lo! a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch, one in power under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure [who] had come to worship in Jerusalem;
And was returning, and, sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah.
And the Spirit said unto Philip—Go near, and join thyself unto this chariot!
And, running near, Philip heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said—Dost thou, then, understand what thou art reading?
And, he, said—How indeed should be able—unless someone shall guide me? And he called upon Philip, to come up and sit with him.
Now, the passage of Scripture which he was reading, was, this:—As a sheep, unto slaughter, was he led, and, as a lamb, before him that sheareth it, is dumb, so, he openeth not his mouth.
In his humiliation, his judgment was taken away,—his generation, who shall describe? because, his life, is taken away from the earth.
And the eunuch, making answer unto Philip, said—I pray thee! Of whom, is the prophet saying this? of himself, or, of some different person?
And Philip, opening his mouth, and beginning from this scripture, told him the glad tidings of Jesus.
And, as they were journeying along the way, they came unto a certain water,—and the eunuch saith—Lo! water! What doth hinder my being immersed?

And he commanded the chariot to stand still; and they went down, both, into the water, both Philip and the eunuch,—and he immersed him.
But, when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, and the eunuch saw him no more; for he was going on his way rejoicing.
Now Philip was found at Azotus; and, passing through, he was telling the glad tidings unto all the cities, until he came unto Caesarea.