These are the generations of the sonnes of Noe: of Sem Ham and Iapheth which begat them children after the floude.
The sonnes of Iapheth were: Gomyr Magog Madai Iauan Tuball Mesech and Thyras.
And the sonnes of Gomyr were: Ascenas Riphat and Togarina.
And the sonnes of Iauan were: Elisa Tharsis Cithun and Dodanim.
Of these came the Iles of the gentylls in there contres every man in his speach kynred and nation.
The sonnes of Ham were: Chus Misraim Phut and Canaan.
The sonnes of Chus: were Seba Hevila Sabta Rayma and Sabtema. And the sonnes of Rayma were: Sheba and Dedan.
Chus also begot Nemrod which bega to be myghtye in the erth.
He was a myghtie hunter in the syghte of the LORde: Where of came the proverbe: he is as Nemrod that myghtie hunter in the syghte of the LORde.
And the begynnynge of hys kyngdome was Babell Erech Achad and Chalne in the lande of Synear:
Out of that lande came Assur and buylded Ninyue and the cyte rehoboth and Calah
And Ressen betwene Ninyue ad Chalah. That is a grete cyte.
And Mizraim begat Iudun Enamim Leabim Naphtuhim
Pathrusim and Castuhim: from whence came the Philystyns and the Capthiherynes.
Canaan also begat zidon his eldest sonne and Heth
Iebusi Emori Girgosi
Hiui Arki Sini
Aruadi Zemari and hamari. And afterward sprange the kynreds of the Canaanytes
And the costes of the Canaanytes were fro Sydon tyll thou come to Gerara and to Asa and tyll thou come to Sodoma Gomorra Adama Zeboim: eve vnto Lasa.
These were the chyldre of Ham in there kynreddes tonges landes and nations.
And Sem the father of all ye childre of Eber and the eldest brother of Iapheth begat children also.
And his sonnes were: Elam Assur Arphachsad Lud ad Aram.
And ye childree of Aram were: Vz Hul Gether and Mas
And Arphachsad begat Sala and Sala begat Eber.
And Eber begat .ij. sonnes. The name of the one was Peleg for in his tyme the erth was devyded. And the name of his brother was Iaketanr
Iaketan begat Almodad Saleph Hyzarmoneth Iarah
Hadoram Vsal Dikela
Obal Abimach Seba
Ophir Heuila and Iobab. All these are the sonnes of Iaketan.
And the dwellynge of them was from Mesa vntill thou come vnto Sephara a mountayne of the easte lande.
These are the sonnes o Sem in their kynreddes languages contrees and nations.
These are the kynreddes of the sonnes of Noe in their generations and nations. And of these came the people that were in the world after the floude.