And being saved, then they knew that the island is called Melita.
And the foreigners were showing not the common kindness to us, for having kindled a fire because of the rain coming on, and because of the cold, they welcomed us all.
And Paul gathering a bunch of sticks, and putting them on the fire, a snake coming out from the heat fastened on his hand.
And when the foreigners saw the beast hanging from his hand, they said to one another, By all means this man is a murderer, whom being saved out of the sea, Justice did not permit to live.
Then he indeed shaking the beast off into the fire, he suffered no harm.
But they expected him to be about to become inflamed, or suddenly to fall down dead. But over much time , they expecting and seeing nothing amiss happening to him, changing their minds, they said him to be a god.
And in the parts about that place were lands to the chief of the island, Publius by name. Welcoming us, he housed us three days in a friendly way.
And it happened the father of Publius was lying down, suffering from fevers and dysentery; to whom Paul, entering and praying, laying on his hands, cured him.
Then, this taking place, the rest who were having infirmities in the island also came up, and they were healed.
They also honored us with many honors. And on our setting sail, they lay on us such things as were needed.
And after three months we sailed in a ship which had wintered in the island, an Alexandrian with an ensign, Twin Brothers.
And landing at Syracuse, we remained three days.
Going around from there, we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day, a south wind having come on, on the second we came to Puteoli,
where finding brothers, we were begged by them to remain seven days. And so we went toward Rome.
And the brothers from there hearing about us, they came out to meet us, as far as the marketplace of Appius, and Three Taverns; whom Paul seeing, thanking God, he took courage.
And when we went into Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the camp commander. But Paul was allowed to remain by himself, with the soldier guarding him.
And after three days, it happened that Paul called together those being chief of the Jews. And they coming together, he said to them, Men, brothers, I did nothing contrary to the people, or to the ancestral customs. I was delivered a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans,
who examining me were of a mind to let me go, because no cause of death was in me.
But the Jews speaking against it , I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not as having anything to accuse my nation.
On account of this, then, I called for you, to see and to speak to you . For I have this chain around me for the sake of the hope of Israel.
And they said to him, We neither received letters concerning you from the Jews, nor having arrived has any one of the brothers reported or spoken anything evil concerning you.
But we think it fitting to hear from you as to what you think, for truly as concerning this sect, it is known to us that it is spoken against everywhere.
And having appointed him a day, more came to him in the lodging, to whom he expounded, earnestly testifying the kingdom of God and persuading them the things concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses and the Prophets, from morning until evening.
And some indeed were persuaded by that being said, others disbelieved.
And disagreeing with one another, they were let go, Paul saying one word: Well did the Holy Spirit speak through the prophet Isaiah to our fathers,
saying, "Go to this people and say, You will surely hear, and not at all understand; and you will surely see, and not at all perceive;
for the heart of this people was fattened, and they have heard with the ears heavily; and they closed their eyes lest at any time they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them." Isa. 6:9, 10
Then let it be known to you that the salvation of God was sent to the nations, and they will hear. LXX-Psa. 66:3; MT-Psa. 67:2
And he saying these things, the Jews went away, having much discussion among themselves.
And Paul remained two whole years in his own rented place, and he welcomed all those coming in to him,
proclaiming the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all freedom and without hindrance.