And after these things I saw another agent coming down out of heaven having great authority, and the earth was illuminated from his glory.
And he cried out in a mighty voice, saying, Babylon the great has fallen, has fallen, and became a habitation of demons, and a hold of every unclean spirit, and a hold of every unclean and hated bird.
Because all the nations have drunk from the wine of the wrath of her fornication. And the kings of the earth fornicated with her, and the merchants of the earth became rich from the power of her wantonness.
And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out from her, my people, so that ye may not participate with her sins, and that ye may not receive from her plagues.
Because her sins have reached as far as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities.
Render to her as she also rendered to you, and double to her two-fold according to her works. In the cup that she mixed, mix two-fold for her.
In an amount she glorified herself and lived wantonly, give her so much torment and grief, because she says in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and will, no, not see grief.
Because of this her plagues will come in one day, death, and grief, and famine. And she will be utterly burned with fire, because strong is the Lord, the God who judged her.
And the kings of the earth who fornicated and lived wantonly with her, will weep and will beat their breasts for her when they see the smoke of her burning,
having stood from afar because of the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, the great city, Babylon, the mighty city! Because thy judgment has come in one hour.
And the merchants of the earth will weep and mourn for her, because no man buys their merchandise any more,
merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stone, and pearl, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and every ivory vessel, and every vessel of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble,
and cinnamon, and incense, and ointment, and frankincense, and wine, and olive oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and sheep, and cattle, and horses, and chariots, and bodies and souls of men.
And the fruit of the lust of thy soul have departed from thee. And all the fat and bright things are destroyed from thee. And thou will, no, not find them any more.
The merchants of these things who became rich from her will stand from afar because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning,
and saying, Alas, alas, the great city, which was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stone and pearls!
Because in one hour such great wealth was devastated. And every shipmaster, and every man who sails anywhere, and sailors, and as many as work by sea, stood from afar
and cried out seeing the smoke of her burning, saying, What is like the great city?
And they cast dust on their heads, and cried out, weeping and mourning, and saying, Alas, alas, the great city in which all who had ships in the sea became rich from her luxuriance! Because in one hour she was devastated.
Be glad over her, thou heaven, and the sanctified, and the apostles, and the prophets, because God has decreed your judgment of her.
And one mighty agent took up a stone like a great millstone and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus in violence Babylon the great city will be thrown down, and will, no, not be found any more.
And a sound of harpers and minstrels and flute-players and trumpeters will, no, not be heard in thee any more. And every craftsman of every craft will, no, not be found in thee any more. And a sound of a millstone will, no, not be heard in thee any more.
And the light of a lamp will, no, not shine in thee any more. And a voice of a bridegroom and of a bride will, no, not be heard in thee any more. Because thy merchants were the chief men of the earth, because all the nations were led astray by thy enchantments.
And in her was found blood of prophets, and of the sanctified, and of all who have been killed upon the earth.