THIS second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both which I rouse up your sincere mind by awakening your recollection
to remember the words, that have been spoken aforetime by the holy prophets, and the injunction of us the apostles of the Lord and Saviour:
knowing this principally, that in the last of the days there will come scoffers, walking after their own lewd passions,
and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue in the same state as from the beginning of the creation.
For this they chuse to keep out of sight, that by the word of God the heavens were created of old, and the earth rising out of the water and subsisting amidst the water;
whence the world then existing, being deluged by water, was destroyed;
but the present heavens and earth by the same word are treasured up, reserved for fire at the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.
But let not this particular be concealed from you, beloved, that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
The Lord doth not delay the promise (as some count it delay); but is longsuffering towards us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should have space for repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief by night; in which the heavens shall pass away with a rushing noise, and the first principles of matter in flames dissolve, and the earth and all the works upon it be burnt up.
Seeing then that all these things must be dissolved, what manner of persons ought we to be in a course of holy conduct and acts of piety,
expecting and hastening towards the coming of God’s day, at which the heavens on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements in flames be melted as wax?
But we expect according to his promise new heavens and a new earth in which dwelleth righteousness.
Wherefore, beloved, seeing ye are expecting these things, be diligent to be found of him in peace, spotless and blameless.
And account the long suffering of our Lord conducive to salvation; as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given to him, hath written unto you;
as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things, of which some are difficult to be understood, which the uninstructed and the unstable torture, as indeed they do the rest of the scriptures unto their own destruction.
Ye therefore, beloved, knowing this before, be on your guard, that ye be not carried away with the delusion of these lawless men, and fall from your own stedfastness.
But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be glory now and unto the day of eternity. Amen. \p