After saying this, Jesus raised his eyes heaven-wards, and said:  “Father, the hour has come; honour thy Son, that thy Son may honour thee;
even as thou gavest him power over all mankind, that he should give Immortal Life to all those whom thou has given him.
And the Immortal Life is this — to know thee the one true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou has sent as thy Messenger.
I have honoured thee on earth by completing the work which thou has given me to do;
and now do thou honour me, Father, at thy own side, with the honour which I had at thy side before the world began.
I have revealed thee to those whom thou gavest me from the world; they were thy own, and thou gavest them to me; and they have laid thy Message to heart.
They recognise now that everything that thou gavest me was from thee;
for I have given them the teaching which thou gavest me, and they received it, and clearly understood that I came from thee, and they believed that thou has sent me as thy Messenger.
I intercede for them; I am not interceding for the world, but for those whom thou has given me, for they are thy own —
All that is mine is thine, and all that is thine is mine — and I am honoured in them.
Now I am to be in this world no longer, but they are still to be in the world, and I am to come to thee. Holy Father, keep them by that revelation of thy Name which thou has given me, that they may be one, as we are.
Whilst I was with them, I kept them by that revelation, and I have guarded them; and not one of them has been lost, except that lost soul — in fulfilment of Scripture.
But now I am to come to thee; and I am speaking thus, while still in the world, that they may have my own joy, in all its fullness, in their hearts.
I have given them thy Message; and the world hated them, because they do not belong to the world, even as I do not belong to the world.
I do not ask thee to take them out of the world, but to keep them from Evil.
They do not belong to the world, even as I do not belong to the world.
Consecrate them by the Truth; thy Message is Truth.
Just as thou has sent me as thy Messenger to the world, so I send them as my Messengers to the world.
And it is for their sakes that I am consecrating myself, so that they also may be truly consecrated.
But it is not only for them that I am interceding, but also for those who believe in me through their Message,
that they all may be one — that as thou, Father, art in union with us — and so the world may believe that thou hast sent me as thy Messenger.
I have given them the honour which thou has given me, that they may be one as we are one —
I in union with them and thou with me — that so they may be perfected in their union, and thus the world may know that thou hast sent me as thy Messenger, and that thou has loved them as thou hast loved me.
Father, my desire for all those whom thou has given me is that they may be with me where I am, so that they may see the honour which thou has given me; for thou didst love me before the beginning of the world.
O righteous Father, though the world did not know thee, I knew thee; and these men knew that thou has sent me as thy Messenger.
I have made thee known to them, and will do so still; that the love that thou has had for me may be in their hearts, and that I may be in them also.”