After these things, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And at Jerusalem is a pool at the Sheep Gate which is called in Hebrew, Bethesda, having five porches.
In these was a great multitude of the infirm lying, blind ones, lame ones, withered ones, awaiting the stirring of the water.
For an angel from time to time descended in the pool and agitated the water. Then the one first entering after the agitation of the water became well, whatever disease he was held by.
But a certain man was there, being in infirmity thirty eight years.
Seeing him lying, and knowing that he had already spent much time, Jesus said to him, Do you desire to become well?
The infirm one answered Him, Lord, I do not have a man, that when the water is agitated he may throw me into the pool; but while I am coming, another goes down before me.
Jesus said to him, Rise up, Take up your cot and walk!
And instantly the man became well, and took up his cot and walked. And it was a sabbath that day.
Then the Jews said to the one having been healed, It is a sabbath. It is not lawful for you to lift up the cot.
He answered them, The One making me well, that One said to me, Lift up your cot and walk.
Then they asked him, Who is the man who told you, Lift up your cot and walk?
But he did not know the One who cured him, for a crowd being in that place, Jesus had withdrawn.
After these things, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well, sin no more that a worse thing not happen to you.
The man went away and told the Jews that Jesus is the One making him well.
And because of this, the Jews persecuted Jesus and lusted to kill Him, because He did these things on a sabbath.
But Jesus answered them, My Father works until now, and I work.
Because of this, therefore, the Jews lusted the more to kill Him, for not only did He break the sabbath, but also called God His own Father, making Himself equal to God.
Then Jesus answered and said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son is not able to do anything from Himself, except what He may see the Father doing; for whatever that One does, these things also the Son does the same way.
For the Father loves the Son and shows to Him all things which He does. And He will show Him greater works than these in order that you may marvel.
For even as the Father raises the dead, and gives life, so also the Son gives life to whomever He wills.
For the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son,
so that all may honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. The one not honoring the Son does not honor the Father who has sent Him.
Truly, truly, I say to you, the one who hears My word, and believes the One who has sent Me, has everlasting life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life.
Truly, truly, I say to you that an hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and the ones hearing will live.
For even as the Father has life in Himself, so He gave also to the Son to have life in Himself.
And He also gave authority to Him to execute judgment, for He is the Son of man.
Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all those in the tombs will hear His voice.
And they will come out, the ones having done good into a resurrection of life; and the ones having practiced evil into a resurrection of judgment.
I am able to do nothing from Myself; just as I hear, I judge; and My judgment is just, for I do not seek My will, but the will of the One sending Me, the Father.
If I witness concerning Myself, My witness is not true;
it is Another that witnesses concerning Me, and I know that the witness which He witnesses concerning Me is true.
You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth.
But I do not receive witness from man, but I say these things that you may be saved.
That one was the burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to exult in his light for an hour.
But I have the greater witness than John's, for the works which the Father has given Me, that I should finish them, the works which I do themselves witness concerning Me, that the Father has sent Me.
And the Father, He sending Me, has Himself borne witness concerning Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor have you seen His form.
And you do not have His word abiding in you, for the One whom that One sent, this One you do not believe.
You search the Scriptures, for you think in them you have everlasting life. And they are the ones witnessing concerning Me.
And you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life.
I do not receive glory from men;
but I have known you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves.
I have come in the name of My Father, and you do not receive Me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive that one.
How are you able to believe, you who receive glory from one another, and the glory which is from the only God you do not seek?
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; there is one accusing you, Moses, in whom you have hoped.
For if you were believing Moses, you would then believe Me; for that one wrote concerning Me.
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?