After these thinges the Lorde apoynted other seventie also and sent them two and two before him into every citie and place whither he him silfe wolde come.
And he sayde vnto them the harvest is greate: but the laborers are feawe. Praye therfore the Lorde of ye harvest to send forth laborers into his hervest.
Goo youre wayes: beholde I sende you forthe as lambes amonge wolves.
Beare noo wallet nether scryppe nor shues and salute noo man by the waye.
Into whatsoever housse ye enter fyrst saye: Peace be to this housse.
And yf ye sonne of peace be theare youre peace shall rest vpon him: yf not yt shall returne to you agayne.
And in ye same housse tary still eatinge and drinkinge soche as they have. For the laborer is worthy of his ewarde. Go not fro housse to housse:
and in to whatso ever citye ye enter yf they receave you eate soche thinges as are set before you
and heale the sicke yt are theare and saye vnto them: the kyngdome of God is come nye vpon you.
But into whatsoever citie ye shall enter yf they receave you not goo youre wayes out into the stretes of ye same and saye:
even the very dust which cleaveth on vs of your citie we wipe of agaynst you: Not withstondinge marke this that ye kyngdome of God was come nie vpon you.
Ye and I saye vnto you: that it shalbe easier in that daye for Sodom then for yt cytie.
Wo be to the Chorazin: wo be to ye Bethsaida. For yf ye miracles had bene done in Tyre and Sido which have bene done in you they had a greate whyle agone repeted sitting in heere and asshes.
Neverthelesse it shalbe easier for Tyre and Sidon at the iudgement then for you.
And thou Capernau which art exalted to heave shalt be thrust doune to hell.
He yt heareth you heareth me: and he that dispiseth you despiseth me: and he that dispiseth me despiseth him that sent me.
And the sevetie returned agayne with ioye sayinge: Lorde even the very devyls are subdued to vs thorowe thy name.
And he sayde vnto them: I sawe satan as it had bene lightenyng faule doune fro heave.
Beholde I geve vnto you power to treade on serpetes and scorpions and over all maner power of the enimye and no thinge shall hurte you.
Neverthelesse in this reioyse not that ye spretes are vnder youre power: but reioyse be cause youre names are wrytten in heaven.
That same tyme reioysed Iesus in ye sprete and sayde: I confesse vnto ye father Lorde of heaven and erth yt thou hast hyd these thynges from the wyse and prudent and hast opened them to the babes. Even so father for soo pleased it the.
All thinges are geven me of my father. And no man knoweth who the sonne is but the father: nether who the father is save the sonne and he to who the sonne wyll shewe him.
And he turned to his disciples and sayde secretly: Happy are ye eyes which se yt ye se.
For I tell you that many prophetes and kynges have desired to se those thinges which ye se and have not sene them: and to heare those thinges which ye heare and have not hearde them.
And beholde a certayne Lawere stode vp and tempted him sayinge: Master what shall I do to inheret eternall life?
He sayd vnto him: What is written in the lawe? How redest thou?
And he answered and sayde: Loue thy Lorde God with all thy hert and with all thy soule and with all thy stregthe and with all thy mynde: and thy neghbour as thy sylfe.
And he sayde vnto him: Thou hast answered right. This do and thou shalt live.
He willinge to iustifie him silfe sayde vnto Iesus: Who is then my neghbour?
Iesus answered and sayde: A certayne ma descended fro Hierusalem into Hierico and fell in to the hondes of theves which robbed him of his raymet and wounded him and departed levynge him halfe deed.
And by chaunce ther came a certayne preste that same waye and when he sawe him he passed by.
And lykewyse a Levite when he was come nye to the place wet and loked on him and passed by.
Then a certayne Samaritane as he iornyed came nye vnto him and when he sawe him had compassion on him
and went to and bounde vp his woundes and poured in oyle and wyne and put him on his awne beaste and brought him to a comen ynne and made provision for him.
And on the morowe when he departed he toke out two pece and gave them to the host and sayde vnto him. Take cure of him and whatsoever thou spedest moare when I come agayne I will recompence the.
Which now of these thre thynkest thou was neighbour vnto him yt fell into ye theves hondes?
And he sayde: he that shewed mercy on him. Then sayde Iesus vnto him. Goo and do thou lyke wyse.
It fortuned as they wet that he entred in to a certayne toune. And a certayne woman named Martha receaved him into her housse.
And this woman had a sister called Mary which sate at Iesus fete and hearde his preachinge.
And Martha was combred about moche servinge and stode and sayde: Master doest thou not care that my sister hath leeft me to minister alone? Byd her therfore that she helpe me.
And Iesus answered and sayde vnto her: Martha Martha thou carest and arte troubled about many thinges:
verely one is nedfull. Mary hath chosen her that good parte which shall not be taken awaye from her.