And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel that they bring Me an offering. You shall take an offering from every man that gives it willingly with his heart.
And this is the offering which you shall take of them: gold, and silver, and brass,
and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and bleached linen, and goats' hair,
and rams' skins dyed red, and dugong skins, and acacia-wood,
oil for the light, spices for anointing oil and for sweet incense,
onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod and in the breast-pocket.
And let them make Me a sanctuary, so that I may dwell among them.
According to all that I show you, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments of it, even so you shall make it.
And they shall make an ark of acacia-wood. Two and a half cubits long and a cubit and a half wide and a cubit and a half high.
And you shall overlay it with pure gold. You shall overlay it inside and out, and shall make on it a crown of gold all around.
And you shall cast four rings of gold for it, and shall put it on its four feet. And two rings shall be in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it.
And you shall make staves of acacia-wood, and overlay them with gold.
And you shall put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, so that the ark may be carried with them.
And the staves shall be in the rings of the ark. They shall not be taken from it.
And you shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give you.
And you shall make a mercy-seat of pure gold. Two and a half cubits shall be the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it.
And you shall make two cherubs of gold; of beaten work you shall make them, in the two ends of the mercy-seat.
And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end. From the mercy-seat you shall make the cherubs, on the two ends of it.
And the cherubs shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, and their faces each toward the other; toward the mercy-seat shall the cherubs' faces be.
And you shall put the mercy-seat above, upon the ark. And in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give you.
And I will meet with you there, and I will talk with you from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubs on the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give you in commandment to the sons of Israel.
You shall also make a table of acacia-wood, its length two cubits, and its breadth a cubit, and its height a cubit and a half.
And you shall overlay it with pure gold, and make to this a crown of gold all around.
And you shall make to it a border of a hand's breadth round about. And you shall make a golden crown to the border of it, all around.
And you shall make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet of it.
The rings shall be adjoining the border as housings for the staves to carry the table.
And you shall make the staves of acacia-wood and overlay them with gold, so that the table may be carried with them.
And you shall make its dishes, and its spoons, and its pitchers, and its sacrificial cups with which a drink-offering is made. You shall make them of pure gold.
And you shall set upon the table showbread before Me always.
And you shall make a lampstand of pure gold. The lampstand shall be made of beaten work; its shaft, and its branches, its cups, its knobs, and its blossoms, shall be from it.
And six branches shall come out of the sides of it-- three branches of the lampstand out of the one side, and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side.
Three almond-like cups on the one branch, with knob and blossom; and three almond-like cups on the one branch, with knob and blossom, so for the six branches, those going out of the lampstand.
And in the lampstand shall be four almond-like cups, with their knobs and their blossoms;
and a knob under two branches of it, and a knob under two branches of it, and a knob under two branches of it, according to the six branches, those going out of the lampstand.
Their knobs and their branches shall be of it, all of it one beaten work of pure gold.
And you shall make the seven lamps of it. And one shall light the lamps of it, so that they may give light on its face.
And the tongs of it, and its pans shall be of pure gold.
One shall make it of a talent of pure gold, with all these vessels.
And see that you make them after their pattern, which was shown you in the mountain.