But Jesus went to the mount of Olives.
And at early morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came to him. And having sat down, he taught them.
And the scholars and the Pharisees bring to him a woman taken in adultery. And having stood her in the midst,
tempting, they say to him, Teacher, we found this woman committing adultery, in the act.
Now in the law, Moses commanded us such women are to be stoned. What therefore do thou say about her?
But they said this, trying him, so that they might have an accusation against him. But Jesus having stooped down, wrote on the ground with his finger, not pretending.
And when they continued asking him, after standing erect, he said to them, Let the innocent man of you first cast the stone at her.
And again having stooped down, he wrote on the ground.
And they, having heard and being convicted by their conscience, went out one by one, having begun from the elder until the last. And Jesus was left behind alone, and the woman being in the midst.
And Jesus, after standing erect, and having seen no man but the woman, he said to her, Woman, where are those accusers of thee? Did no man condemn thee?
And she said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said to her, Neither do I condemn thee. Go, and henceforth sin no more.
Again therefore Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. He who follows me would, no, not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life.
The Pharisees therefore said to him, Thou testify about thyself. Thy testimony is not valid.
Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I might testify about myself, my testimony is valid, for I know where I came from and where I go, but ye do not know where I come from and where I go.
Ye judge according to the flesh. I judge no man.
But even if I judge, my judgment is valid, because I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent me.
And also it is written in your law that the testimony of two men is valid.
I am he who testifies about myself, and the Father who sent me testifies about me.
They said therefore to him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye know neither me, nor my Father. If ye had known me, ye would have known my Father also.
Jesus spoke these sayings in the treasury as he taught in the temple, and no man seized him, because his hour had not yet come.
Jesus therefore again said to them, I go, and ye will seek me, and ye will die in your sin. Where I go, ye cannot come.
The Jews therefore said, Will he kill himself, because he says, Where I go, ye cannot come?
And he said to them, Ye are from below, I am from above. Ye are of this world, I am not of this world.
I said therefore to you that ye will die in your sins. For unless ye believe that I am he, ye will die in your sins.
They said therefore to him, Who are thou? And Jesus said to them, The beginning, something that I am even telling you.
I have many things to say and to judge about you. But he who sent me is true, and I speak to the world these things that I heard from him.
They did not understand that he spoke the Father to them.
Jesus therefore said to them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then ye will know that I am he, and I do nothing from myself, but I speak these things as my Father taught me.
And he who sent me is with me. The Father has not left me alone, because I always do things pleasing to him.
As he spoke these things of him, many believed in him.
Jesus therefore said to those Jews who believed him, If ye remain in my word, ye are truly my disciples,
and ye will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.
They answered to him, We are Abraham's seed, and have been in bondage to no man, ever. How can thou say, Ye will become free?
Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, that every man who does the sin is a bondman of the sin.
And the bondman does not remain in the house into the age. The Son remains into the age.
If therefore the Son should make you free, ye will truly be free.
I know that ye are Abraham's seed, yet ye seek to kill me, because my word has no place in you.
I speak what I have seen from my Father, and ye therefore do what ye have seen from your father.
They answered and said to him, Abraham is our father. Jesus says to them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham.
But now ye seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do this.
Ye do the works of your father. They said therefore to him, We were not begotten from fornication. We have one Father, God.
Therefore Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, ye would love me, for I came forth and have come from God. For, neither have I come for myself, but he sent me.
Why do ye not understand my speech? Because ye cannot hear my word.
Ye are from the father, the devil, and ye want to do the desires of your father. He was a man-killer from the beginning, and he has not stood in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own, because he is a liar, and the father of it.
And I, because I speak the truth, ye do not believe me.
Which of you convicts me about sin? And if I speak truth, why do ye not believe me?
He who is of God hears the sayings of God. Because of this ye do not hear, because ye are not of God.
Therefore the Jews answered and said to him, Do we not say well that thou are a Samaritan, and have a demon?
Jesus answered, I have no demon, but I honor my Father, and ye dishonor me.
But I seek not my own glory. He is who seeks and judges.
Truly, truly, I say to you, if any man keeps my word, he will, no, not see death, into the age.
The Jews therefore said to him, Now we know that thou have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets, and thou say, If any man keeps my word, he will, no, not taste of death, into the age.
Are thou greater than our father Abraham who died? And the prophets died. Who do thou make thyself?
Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. My Father is he who glorifies me, of whom ye say, He is our God.
And ye do not know him, but I know him. And if I should say that I do not know him, I will be a liar like you, but I do know him and keep his word.
Your father Abraham rejoiced that he could see my day, and he saw it, and was glad.
The Jews therefore said to him, Thou have not yet fifty years, and thou have seen Abraham?
Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham came to be, I am.
Therefore they took up stones so that they might throw at him, but Jesus was hid, and went out of the temple, having passed through the midst of them, and thus passed on.