The thing that happened unto Jeremiah, from Yahweh, after Nebuzaradan chief of the royal executioners had let him go from Ramah,—when he had taken him, he having been bound in fetters in the midst of all the captive-host of Jerusalem, and Judah, who were being carried away captive to Babylon.
So then the, chief of the royal executioners took Jeremiah,—and said unto him, Yahweh thy God had threatened this calamity against this place;
and so Yahweh hath brought it about and done it just as he threatened,—for ye have sinned against Yahweh, and have not hearkened unto his voice, and so this thing hath befallen you.
Now, therefore, lo! I have loosed thee today, from the fetters which were upon thy hand: If it be good in thine eyes to come with me into Babylon, come, and I will set mine eyes upon thee, but if evil in thine eyes to come with me into Babylon, forbear,—see! all the land, is before thee, whither it may be good and right in thine eyes to go, thither, go!
And ere yet he could make reply—Go thou back then unto Gedaliah son of Ahikam son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon hath set in charge over the cities of Judah, and dwell thou with him in the midst of the people, or whithersoever it may be right in thine eyes to go, go! So the chief of the royal executioners gave him an allowance and a present and let him go.
Then came Jeremiah unto Gedaliah son of Ahikam to Mizpah, and dwelt with him in the midst of the people who were left in the land.
Now, when all the captains of the forces which were in the field—they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had set Gedaliah son of Ahikam in charge over the land,—and that he had committed to him men and women and children, and the poor of the land of those who had not been carried away captive to Babylon,
then came they in unto Gedaliah in Mizpah,—both Ishmael son of Nethaniah and Johanan and Jonathan sons of Kareah, and Seraiah son of Tanhumeth and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite and Jezaniah son of the Maachathite, they and their men.
Then Gedaliah son of Ahikam son of Shaphan sware unto them, and to their men saying, Do not be afraid of serving the Chaldeans,—dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon that it may be well with you.
But as for me, behold me! remaining in Mizpah, to stand before the Chaldeans who may come unto us, Ye, however, gather ye wine and summer fruits and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities which ye have seized.
Likewise also, all the Jews, who were in Moab and among the sons of Ammon and in Edom and who were in any of the lands, when they heard that the king of Babylon had granted a remnant to Judah, and that he had set in charge over them Gedaliah son of Ahikam son of Shaphan,
yea, then returned all the Jews out of all the places whither they had been driven, and came into the land of Judah unto Gedaliah, in Mizpah,—and gathered wine and summer fruits in great abundance.
But, Johanan son of Kareah, and all the princes of the forces which were in the field, came unto Gedaliah in Mizpah,
and said unto him—Dost thou at all know, that, Baalis, king of the sons of Ammon, hath sent Ishmael son of Nethaniah, to smite thee to death? But Gedaliah son of Ahikam, believed them not.
Then, Johanan son of Kareah, spake unto Gedaliah secretly, in Mizpah, saying,—Let me go I pray thee, and smite Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and not, a man, shall know it,—wherefore should he smite thee to death, and all Judah who have gathered themselves unto thee, be dispersed, and the remnant of Judah perish?
Then said Gedaliah son of Ahikam unto Johanan son of Kareah, Thou mayest not do this thing,—for, falsely, art thou speaking against Ishmael.