In the third month when the sons of Israel had gone forth out of the land of Egypt, on this day they came to the wilderness of Sinai.
And they journeyed from Rephidim, and came to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness. And Israel camped there in front of the mount.
And Moses went up to God, and the LORD called to him out of the mountain, saying, You shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the sons of Israel:
You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and I bore you on eagles' wings and brought you to Myself.
And now if you will obey My voice indeed, and keep My covenant, then you shall be a peculiar treasure to Me above all the nations; for all the earth is Mine.
And you shall be to Me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the sons of Israel.
And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him.
And all the people answered together and said, All that the LORD has spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people to the LORD.
And the LORD said to Moses, Lo, I come to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you, and believe you forever. And Moses told the words of the people to the LORD.
And the LORD said to Moses, Go to the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes.
And be ready for the third day. For the third day the LORD will come down in the sight of all the people upon Mount Sinai.
And you shall set bounds to the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves. Do not go up into the mountain, or touch the border of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall be surely put to death.
There shall not be a hand to touch it, but that he shall surely be stoned or shot through; whether beast or man, it shall not live. When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come up to the mountain.
And Moses went down from the mountain to the people, and sanctified the people. And they washed their clothes.
And he said to the people, Be ready for the third day. Do not approach a woman.
And it happened on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mountain. And the voice of the trumpet was exceedingly loud, so that all the people in the camp trembled.
And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet with God. And they stood at the lower part of the mountain.
And Mount Sinai was smoking, all of it, because the LORD came down upon it in fire. And the smoke of it went up like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly.
And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and became very strong, Moses spoke, and God answered him by a voice.
And the LORD came down upon Mount Sinai, on the top of the mountain. And the LORD called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up.
And the LORD said to Moses, Go down. Command the people, lest they break through to the LORD to gaze, and many of them perish.
And let the priests also, who come near to the LORD, sanctify themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them.
And Moses said to the LORD, The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai. For You commanded us, saying, Set bounds around the mountain, and sanctify it.
And the LORD said to him, Away! You go down, and you shall come up, you and Aaron with you. But do not let the priests and the people break through to come up to the LORD, lest He break forth upon them.
And Moses went down to the people, and spoke to them.