Give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good; because His mercy endures forever.
Let Israel say now that His mercy endures forever.
Let the house of Aaron say now that His mercy endures forever.
Let those who fear Jehovah say now that His mercy endures forever.
I called Jehovah from the distress; He answered me in the large place of Jehovah.
Jehovah is for me; I will not fear; what can man do to me?
Jehovah is for me among those who help me, and I shall see my desire on those who hate me.
It is better to trust in Jehovah than to trust in man;
it is better to trust in Jehovah than to trust in princes.
All the nations surround me; but surely I will destroy them in the name of Jehovah.
They surround me; yea, they surround me; I surely will destroy them in the name of Jehovah.
they surround me like bees; they are quenched like the fire of thorns; for surely I will cut them off in the name of Jehovah.
Pushing, you pushed me to fall; but Jehovah helped me.
Jehovah is my strength and my song; and He is my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; the right hand of Jehovah works mightily.
The right hand of Jehovah is exalted; the right hand of Jehovah acts mightily.
I shall not die, but I shall live and declare the works of Jehovah.
Jehovah has grievously chastened me, but He has not given me to death.
Open the gates of righteousness to me, I will enter into them; I will thank Jehovah.
This is the gate of Jehovah, the righteous shall enter into it.
I will thank You, for You answered me, and are my salvation.
The Stone which the builders rejected has become the Head of the corner.
This is from Jehovah, it is marvelous in our eyes.
This is the day Jehovah has made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
O Jehovah, I beseech You, save now; I beseech You, O Jehovah, cause us to prosper now.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of Jehovah; we blessed you from the house of Jehovah.
Jehovah is God, and He gives light to us. Tie the sacrifice with cords, to the horns of the altar.
You are my God, and I will exalt You; My God, I will thank You!
O give thanks to Jehovah, for He is good; for His mercy endures forever.