And he said to his disciples, It is impossible but that stumbling-blocks will come; but woe to him through whom they come!
It were better for him to have a millstone hung round his neck, and be cast into the sea, than to cause one of these little ones to fall away.
Take heed to yourselves. If thy brother sin, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.
And if he sin against thee seven times in a day, and seven times turn to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him.
And the apostles said to the Lord, Give us more faith.
But the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard, ye might say to this sycamine-tree, Be plucked up by the roots, and planted in the sea! and it would obey you.
And which of you having a servant plowing, or feeding cattle, will say to him, when he hath come in from the field, Come immediately and place thyself at table?
Will he not rather say to him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself and serve me till I have eaten and drunken, and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?
Doth he owe any thanks to that servant, because he did what was commanded?
So also do ye, when ye have done all that hath been commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants; we have done what we were bound to do.
And it came to pass, as he was going to Jerusalem, that he was traveling on the confines of Samaria and Galilee.
And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten lepers, who stood afar off.
And they lifted up their voice, saying, Jesus, Master, have pity on us.
And when he saw them, he said to them, Go, show yourselves to the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they were on their way, they were cleansed.
And one of them, perceiving that he was freed from his disease, turned back, giving glory to God with a loud voice;
and he fell down on his face at his feet, giving thanks to him; and he was a Samaritan.
And Jesus answering said, Were not the ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
Were there none found returning to give glory to God but this foreigner?
And he said to him, Rise and go; thy faith hath made thee well.
And being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God was coming, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not in such a manner as to be watched for;
nor will they say, Lo here! or there! for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.
And he said to the disciples, The days will come, when ye will desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and will not see it.
And they will say to you, Lo there! lo here! Go not away, and follow not.
For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of one part under heaven, shineth to the other part under heaven, so will the Son of man be in his day.
But first he must suffer much, and be rejected by this generation.
And as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be also in the days of the Son of man.
They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
In like manner, as it was in the days of Lot; they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded;
but on the day when Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
Thus will it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.
In that day, let not him who is upon the house-top, and whose furniture is in the house, come down to take it away; and he that is in the field, let him likewise not turn back.
Remember Lot’s wife.
Whoever shall seek to save his life will lose it; and whoever shall lose it will preserve it.
I tell you, In that night there will be two men on one bed; one will be taken, and the other will be left.
Two women will be grinding together; one will be taken, and the other left.

And they answering say to him, Where, Lord? And he said to them, Where the body is, there also will the eagles be gathered together.