BUT Saul, still breathing out threatenings and murder against the disciples of the Lord, applying to the high-priest,
besought of him letters for the synagogues at Damascus, that if he should find any persons of this way, whether men or women, he might bring them in chains to Jerusalem.
So advancing on his journey, he was drawing nigh to Damascus: and suddenly there shone around him a light from heaven:
and falling on the ground, he heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
Then said he, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou art persecuting: It is difficult for thee to kick against the goads.
And trembling and amazed he said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do.
And the men who travelled with him stood astonished, hearing indeed a voice, but seeing no man.
Then Paul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus.
And he was three days seeing nothing, and did neither eat nor drink.
Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias; and the Lord said unto him in a vision, Ananias! And he said, Here I am, Lord.
Then the Lord said to him, Arise, go into the street called Strait, and inquire at the house of Judas for one named Saul a man of Tarsus: for, behold, he is praying,
and hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming to him, and laying his hand upon him, that he may recover his sight.
But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many of this man, how many evils he hath inflicted on thy saints at Jerusalem:
and here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call upon thy name.
But the Lord said unto him, Go: for this man is an elect vessel for me, to bear my name before nations, and kings, and the children of Israel:
for I will shew him how many things he must suffer for my name’s sake.
Then went Ananias, and entered into the house; and laying his hands upon him, said, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who was seen by thee in the way that thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest recover thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost.
And directly there fell from his eyes as it were scales: and he recovered sight instantly, and arose, and was baptised.
And when he had taken nourishment, he regained his strength. And Saul continued with the disciples who were at Damascus several days.
And immediately he preached Christ in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God.
And all who heard him were amazed, and said, Is not this the man who made havoc at Jerusalem, among those who called on this name? and hither he came for this purpose, that he might carry them in chains unto the chief priests?
But Saul was endued with still greater power, and confounded the Jews who dwelt at Damascus, conclusively evincing that this person is the Messiah.
But when many days were fulfilled, the Jews consulted together how to kill him:
but their design was discovered to Saul. And they kept guard at the gates of the city day and night, that they might kill him.
But the disciples taking him by night, got him off through the wall, letting him down in a basket.
But when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples: and they were all afraid of him, not crediting that he was a disciple.
Then Barnabas taking him by the hand, brought him to the apostles, and related to them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how boldly he had preached at Damascus in the name of Jesus.
And he was with them coming in, and going out at Jerusalem:
and speaking boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus. And he talked and disputed with the Grecian proselytes: but they made an attempt to murder him.
Then the brethren, when they knew it brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him off to Tarsus.
Then had the churches peace through all Judea and Galilee and Samaria, being edified; and walking in the fear of God, and in the consolation of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied.
Now it came to pass, as Peter was passing through all parts, that he went down also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.
And found there a certain man named AEneas, during six years stretched on a bed, who was paralytic.
And Peter said to him, AEneas, Jesus the Messiah maketh thee whole: arise, and make thine own bed. And he arose immediately.
And all who dwelt at Lydda and Saron saw him, and they turned to the Lord.
But there was at Joppa a woman, a disciple, named Tabitha, (which by interpretation is called Dorcas:) this woman was full of good works and of alms which she did.
But it came to pass that in those days she sickened and died: having then washed her, they laid her out in an upper room.
And as Lydda was near to Joppa, the disciples hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, entreating him without delay to come over to them.
Then Peter arose and went with them. And they carried him, on his arrival, into the upper room: and all the widows stood round him weeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas had made, whilst she was with them.
But Peter putting them all out, fell upon his knees, and prayed; and turning to the body, said, Tabitha, arise! And she opened her eyes: and when she saw Peter, she sat up.
Then he gave her his hand, and raised her up; and calling in the saints and the widows, presented her to them alive.
And it was known through all Joppa; and many believed on the Lord.
Then it came to pass, that he abode many days at Joppa with one Simon a tanner.