Every wise woman builds her house: but the foolish plucks it down with her hands.
He that walks in his uprightness fears the LORD: but he that is perverse in his ways despises him.
In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.
Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter lies.
A scorner seeks wisdom, and finds it not: but knowledge is easy unto him that understands.
Go from the presence of a foolish man, when you perceive not in him the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly of fools is deceit.
Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is favour.
The heart knows his own bitterness; and a stranger does not intermeddle with his joy.
The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle of the upright shall flourish.
There is a way which seems right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that delight is heaviness.
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man shall be satisfied from himself.
The simple believes every word: but the prudent man looks well to his going.
A wise man fears, and departs from evil: but the fool rages, and is confident.
He that is soon angry deals foolishly: and a man of wicked devices is hated.
The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich has many friends.
He that despises his neighbour sins: but he that has mercy on the poor, happy is he.
Do they not go astray that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be to them that devise good.
In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tends only to destitution.
The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of fools is folly.
A true witness delivers souls: but a deceitful witness speaks lies.
In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children shall have a place of refuge.
The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
In the multitude of people is the king's honour: but in the lack of people is the destruction of the prince.
He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that is hasty of spirit exalts folly.
A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones.
He that oppresses the poor reproaches his Maker: but he that honors him has mercy on the poor.
The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous has hope in his death.
Wisdom rests in the heart of him that has understanding: but that which is in the midst of fools is made known.
Righteousness exalts a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people.
The king's favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is against him that causes shame.