A man seeketh, for satisfaction, going his own way, through all safe counsel, he breaketh.
A dullard, delighteth not, in understanding, in nothing save the exposing of his own heart.
When the lawless man cometh in, then cometh also contempt, and, with shame, reproach.
Deep waters, are the words of a man’s mouth,—a bubbling brook, the well-spring of wisdom.
To prefer a lawless man, is not good, thrusting away the righteous, in judgment.
the lips of a dullard, enter into contention, and his mouth, for blows, crieth out.
The mouth of a dullard, is his ruin, and, his lips, are a snare to his soul.
the words of a tattler, are dainties, they, therefore go down into the chambers of the inner man.
Surely he that is slothful in his work, brother, is he to a master at laying waste.
A tower of strength, is the Name of Yahweh, thereinto, runneth the righteous, and is safe.
The substance of a rich man, is his strong city, and like a high wall, in his imagination.
Before grievous injury, a man’s heart is haughty, and, before honour, is humility.
He that answereth before he heareth, a folly, it is to him, and, a reproach.
The spirit of a man, sustaineth his sickness, but, a dejected spirit, who can bear it?
the heart of the intelligent, acquireth knowledge, yea, the ear of the wise, seeketh knowledge.
The gift of a man, maketh room for him, and, before great men, setteth him down.
Righteous is he that is first in his own cause, then cometh his neighbour, and thoroughly searcheth him.
The lot causeth, contentions, to cease, and, the mighty, it parteth.
A brother estranged, [is worse] than a strong city,—and, contentions, are as the bar of a citadel.
Of the fruit of a man’s mouth, shall his inmost mind be satisfied, with the product of his lips, shall he be satisfied.
Death and life, are in the power of the tongue, and, its friends, shall eat its fruits.
Who hath found a wife, hath found a blessing, and hath obtained favour from Yahweh.
Supplications, doth the poor man utter, but, the rich, answereth fiercely.
A man having [many] friends, shall come to ruin, but there is a loving one, who sticketh closer than a brother.