That which Isaiah, son of Amoz saw in vision,—concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
But it shall come to pass, in the afterpart of the days, That the mountain of the house of Yahweh Shall be, set up, as the head of the mountains, And be exalted above the hills,—And all the nations, shall stream thereunto;
And many peoples shall go and say—Come ye, and let us ascend Unto the mountain of Yahweh Unto the house of the God of Jacob, That he may teach us of his ways, And we may walk in his paths,—For, out of Zion, shall go forth a law, And the word of Yahweh out of Jerusalem;
And he will judge between the nations, And be umpire to many peoples,—And they will beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning-hooks, Nation—against nation, shall not lift up sword, Neither shall they learn any more to make war,
O house of Jacob! come ye and let us walk in the light of Yahweh.
Therefore hast thou abandoned thy people the house of Jacob, Because they have become full of the East, And use hidden arts like the Philistines,—And with the children of foreigners, strike hands;—
So that filled is their land with silver and gold, And there is no end to their treasures,—And filled is their land with horses, And there is no end to their chariots;
And filled is their land with idols,—To the work of their own hands, do they bow themselves down, To that which they made with their own fingers.
So the mean man boweth down And the great man stoopeth low,—Therefore do not thou forgive them!
Enter into the rock, Or hide thee in the dust,—Because of the terribleness of Yahweh, And for his majestic splendour.
The lofty looks of mean men, shall be humbled, And, the haughtiness of great men, shall be bowed down,—And Yahweh alone shall be exalted in that day.
For, a day of Yahweh of hosts, [shall be] —Upon every one who is high and lofty,—And upon every one who is lifted up, And he shall be brought low;
And upon all cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up,—And upon all the oaks of Bashan;
And upon all the lofty mountains,—And upon all the uplifted hills;
And upon every high tower,—And upon every fortress wall;
And upon all the ships of Tarshish,—And upon all desirable banners.
And the haughtiness of mean men, shall be humbled,—And the loftiness of great men, shall be laid low,—And Yahweh alone shall be exalted in that day.
And, the idols, shall wholly pass away;
And they shall enter into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of clay,—Because of the terribleness of Yahweh, And for his majestic splendour, When he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.
In that day shall the son of earth cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold,—which had been made for him to worship, into the hole of the mice, and to the bats;
That he may enter into the clefts of the rocks, and into the fissures of the crags,—Because of the terribleness of Yahweh, And for his majestic splendour, When he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.
Cease ye from the son of earth, In whose nostrils is but a breath,—For wherein to be reckoned upon, is he?