After a feawe dayes he entred into Capernaum agayne and it was noysed that he was in a housse.
And anone many gadered to geder in so moche that now there was no roume to receave them: no not so moche as about the dore. And he preached the worde vnto them.
And there came vnto him that brought one sicke of the palsie borne of fower men.
And because they coulde not come nye vnto him for preace they vncovered ye rofe of the housse where he was. And when they had broken it ope they let doune ye beed where in ye sicke of the palsie laye.
When Iesus sawe their fayth he sayde to the sicke of the palsie sonne thy sinnes are forgeven the.
And ther were certayne of ye scribes sittinge there and reasoninge in their hertes:
how doeth this felowe so blaspheme? Who can forgeve synnes but God only?
And immediatly whe Iesus perceaved in his sprete yt they so reasoned in the selves he sayde vnto them: why thynke ye soche thinges in youre hertes?
Whether is it easyer to saye to ye sicke of ye palsie thy synnes are forgeven the or to saye aryse take vp thy beed and walke?
That ye maye knowe yt the sonne of man hath power in erth to forgeve synnes he spake vnto ye sicke of the palsie:
I saye vnto ye aryse and take vp thy beed and get ye hense into thyne awne housse.
And by and by he arose toke vp the beed and went forth before them all: in so moche that they were all amased and glorified God sayinge: we never sawe it on this fassion.
And he went agayne vnto the see and all the people resorted vnto him and he taught the.
And as Iesus passed by he sawe Levy ye sonne of Alphey syt at the receyte of custome and sayde vnto him: folowe me. And he arose and folowed him.
And it came to passe as Iesus sate at meate in his housse many publicans and synners sate at meate also with Iesus and his disciples. For there were many that folowed him.
And when the Scribes and Pharises sawe him eate with publicas and synnere they sayde vnto his disciples: how is it that he eateth and drynketh with publicas and synners?
When Iesus hearde yt he sayde vnto them. The whole have no nede of the phisicio but the sicke. I came not to call the rightwise but the synners to repentaunce.
And the disciples of Iohn and the Pharises dyd faste: and therfore came and sayde vnto him. Why do ye disciples of Iohn and of the Pharises faste and thy disciples fast not.
And Iesus sayde vnto them: can the chyldren of a weddinge faste while the brydgrome is wt them. As longe as they have the brydgrome with them they cannot faste.
But the dayes will come when the brydgrome shalbe taken from them and then shall they faste in those dayes.
Also no ma soweth a pece of newe cloth vnto an olde garmet for then taketh he awaye ye newe pece fro the olde and so is the rent worsse.
In lyke wyse no man poureth newe wyne into olde vessels: for yf he do the newe wyne breaketh the vessels and the wyne runneth out and the vessels are marred. But new wyne must be poured into new vessels.
And it chaunsed that he wet thorow ye corne feldes on the Saboth daye: and his disciples as they went on their waye beganne to plucke the eares of corne.
And the Pharises sayde vnto him: beholde why do they on the Saboth dayes yt which is not laufull?
And he sayde to them: have ye never rede what David dyd when he had nede and was anhogred bothe he and they that were with him?
How he went into the housse of God in the dayes of Abiathar ye hye preste and dyd eate ye halowed loves which is not laufull to eate but for ye prestes only: and gave also to the which were with him?
And he sayde to them: the Saboth daye was made for man and not man for the Saboth daye.
Wherfore the sonne of man is Lorde eve of the Saboth daye.