For the kingdom of the heavens is compared to a man, a house-ruler, who went out in the early morning at the same time to hire workmen for his vineyard.
And having agreed with the workmen for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
And having gone out about the third hour, he saw others having stood idle in the marketplace.
And he said to those men, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatever would be right I will give you, and they went.
Again having gone out about the sixth and the ninth hour, he did likewise.
And having gone out about the eleventh hour, he found others who have stood idle. And he says to them, Why have ye stood here idle the whole day?
They say to him, Because no man has hired us. He says to them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatever would be right ye will receive.
And having become evening, the lord of the vineyard says to his manager, Call the workmen, and render to them their wage, having begun from the last until the first.
And those who came about the eleventh hour, each received a denarius.
But when the first came, they supposed that they would receive more. And they also received a denarius each.
And when they received it, they murmured against the house-ruler,
saying, These last did one hour, and thou have made them equal to us, who have borne the burden of the day and the heat.
But having answered, he said to one of them, Friend, I do thee no wrong. Did thou not agree with me for a denarius?
Take thine and go. But I want to give to this last man, as to thee also.
Is it not permitted for me to do what I want with my own? Is thine eye evil, because I am good?
So the last will be first, and the first last, for many are called, but few chosen.
And while going up to Jerusalem, Jesus took the twelve disciples in private on the way, and he said to them,
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scholars. And they will condemn him to death,
and will deliver him to the Gentiles to ridicule, and to scourge, and to crucify. And the third day he will rise.
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons, worshiping, and asking something from him.
And he said to her, What do thou want? She says to him, Speak that these my two sons may sit, one at thy right hand and one at thy left hand in thy kingdom.
But having answered, Jesus said, Ye know not what ye are asking. Are ye able to drink the cup that I am going to drink, or to be immersed the immersion that I am immersed? They say to him, We are able.
And he says to them, Ye will indeed drink my cup, and ye will be immersed the immersion that I am immersed. But to sit at my right hand and at my left hand is not mine to give, but to whom it has been prepared by my Father.
And when the ten heard it, they were indignant about the two brothers.
But having summoned them, Jesus said, Ye know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord over them, and their eminent men have power over them.
But it shall not be so among you. Rather whoever wants to become great among you, he shall be your helper,
and whoever wants be first among you shall be your bondman.
Just as the Son of man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.
And when they went out from Jericho, a great multitude followed him.
And behold, two blind men sitting by the wayside, having heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, Be merciful to us, Lord, thou son of David.
And the multitude rebuked them, so that they would be quiet, but they cried out greater, saying, Be merciful to us, Lord, thou son of David.
And having stood still, Jesus called them and said, What do ye want that I would do to you?
They say to him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
And having felt compassion, Jesus touched their eyes, and straightaway they received their sight, and followed him.