And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they came out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, every male, by their polls,
from twenty years old and upward, all who are able to go forth to war in Israel. Thou and Aaron shall number them by their armies.
And with you there shall be a man of every tribe, each one head of his fathers' house.
And these are the names of the men who shall stand with you. Of Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Of Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Of Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar.
Of Zebulun: Eliab the son of Helon.
Of the sons of Joseph, of Ephraim: Elishama the son of Ammihud; of Manasseh: Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Of Benjamin: Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Of Dan: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Of Asher: Pagiel the son of Ochran.
Of Gad: Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
Of Naphtali: Ahira the son of Enan.
These are those who were called from the congregation, the rulers of the tribes of their fathers. They were the heads of the thousands of Israel.
And Moses and Aaron took these men who are mentioned by name,
and they assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month. And they declared their ancestry after their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls.
As Jehovah commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.
And the sons of Reuben, Israel's firstborn, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Reuben, were forty-six thousand and five hundred.
Of the sons of Simeon, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, those who were numbered of it, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Simeon, were fifty-nine thousand and three hundred.
Of the sons of Gad, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Gad, were forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.
Of the sons of Judah, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Judah, were seventy-four thousand and six hundred.
Of the sons of Issachar, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Issachar, were fifty-four thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Zebulun, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Zebulun, were fifty-seven thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Joseph, namely, of the sons of Ephraim, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Ephraim, were forty thousand and five hundred;
of the sons of Manasseh, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Manasseh, were thirty-two thousand and two hundred.
Of the sons of Benjamin, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Benjamin, were thirty-five thousand and four hundred.
Of the sons of Dan, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Dan, were sixty-two thousand and seven hundred.
Of the sons of Asher, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Asher, were forty-one thousand and five hundred.
Of the sons of Naphtali, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war,
those who were numbered of them, of the tribe of Naphtali, were fifty-three thousand and four hundred.
These are those who were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron numbered, and the rulers of Israel, being twelve men. They were each one for his fathers' house.
So all those who were numbered of the sons of Israel by their fathers' houses, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go forth to war in Israel,
even all those who were numbered were six hundred three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
But the Levites according to the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them.
For Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Only the tribe of Levi thou shall not number, neither shall thou take the sum of them among the sons of Israel,
but appoint thou the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all the furniture of it, and over all that belongs to it. They shall bear the tabernacle, and all the furniture of it, and they shall minister to it, and shall encamp round about the tabernacle.
And when the tabernacle sets forward, the Levites shall take it down, and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up. And the stranger who comes near shall be put to death.
And the sons of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, according to their armies.
But the Levites shall encamp round about the tabernacle of the testimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of the sons of Israel. And the Levites shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of the testimony.
Thus did the sons of Israel. According to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so they did.