And it came to pass, that when Jesus had ended these sayings, he removed from Galilee, and came into the borders of Judaea, beyond the Jordan.
And great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.
And the Pharisees came to him, trying him, and saying, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?
And he answering said, Have ye not read, that he who made them at the beginning, made them male and female?
And He said: "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and cleave to his wife; and the two shall become one flesh."
So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God joined together, let not man put asunder.
They say to him, Why then did Moses ordain that a man may give his wife a writing of divorcement, and put her away?
He saith to them, Moses, on account of your hardness of heart, allowed you m put away your wives; but in the beginning it was not so.
And I say to you, Whoever putteth away his wife, except for fornication, and marrieth another, committeth adultery.
The disciples say to him, If such be the case of a man with his wife, it is not good to marry.
But he said to them, All cannot receive this saying, but they only to whom it is given.
For there are eunuchs, who were so born from their mother’s womb; and there are eunuchs, who were made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs, who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.
Then there were brought to him children, that be might lay his hands on them, and pray; and the disciples rebuked them.
But Jesus said to them, Suffer the children, and forbid them not to come to me; for to such belongeth the kingdom of heaven.
And he laid his hands on them, and departed thence.
And lo! one came to him and said, Teacher, what good thing shall I do, that I may have everlasting life?
And he said to him, Why dost thou ask me concerning what is good? There is but one who is good. But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments.
Which? saith he. And Jesus said, These: "Thou shalt not kill; Thou shalt not commit adultery; Thou shalt not steal; Thou shalt not bear false witness;
Honor thy father and thy mother;" and, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
The young man saith to him, All these things have I kept; in what am I still wanting?
Jesus said to him, If thou wilt be perfect, go, sell what thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.
But the young man, on hearing this went away sorrowful; for he had great possessions.
Then Jesus said to his disciples, Truly do I say to you, it will be hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
And again I say to you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
And the disciples, hearing this, were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?
But Jesus, fixing his eyes on them, said, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.
Then Peter answering said to him, Lo! we left all, and followed thee; what then shall we have?
And Jesus said to them, Truly do I say to you, that, in the renovation when the Son of man sitteth on the throne of his glory, ye who have followed me shall also yourselves sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And every one who hath left brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands, or houses, for the sake of my name, will receive many fold more, and will inherit everlasting life.
But many who are first will be last, and the last first.