And God remembered Noah, and all the wild—beasts and all the tame-beasts that were with him in the ark,—and God caused a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subsided;
and the fountains of the roaring-deep were shut, and the windows of the heavens,—and the heavy rain was restrained from the heavens;
and the waters returned from off the earth they went on returning,—and so the waters decreased at the end of a hundred and fifty days.
And the ark rested, in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month,—on the mountains of Ararat.
But, the waters went on decreasing, until the tenth month,—in the tenth [month], on the first of the month, were seen the tops of the mountains.
And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark that he had made;
and sent forth a raven,—and it kept going forth and returning, until the drying up of the waters from off the earth.
And he sent forth a dove from him,—to see whether the waters had abated, from off the face of the ground;
but the dove found no resting-place for the sole of her foot so she returned unto him into the ark, for, waters, were on the face of all the earth; and he put forth his hand and took her, and brought her in unto him, into the ark.
Then stayed he yet seven days more,—and, again sent forth the dove out of the ark.
And the dove came in unto him at eventide, and lo! a newly sprouted olive-leaf, in her mouth,—so Noah knew that the waters had abated from off the earth.
And he stayed yet seven days more,—and sent forth the dove, but she returned not again unto him any more.
So it came to pass in the six hundred and first year at the beginning, on the first of the month, that the waters had dried up from off the earth,—and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked and lo! the face of the ground was dried.
And in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, was the earth dry.
So then, God spake to Noah, saying:
Come forth out of the ark,—thou and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons’ wives with thee.
All the living creatures that are with thee of all flesh among birds, and among beasts, and among all the creeping things that creep on the earth, bring forth with thee,—and they shall swarm in the earth, and be fruitful and multiply, on the earth.
So Noah came forth,—and his sons and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him:
All the living creatures, all that move along, and all birds, and all that moveth along over the earth—by their families, came forth out of the ark.
And Noah builded an altar to Yahweh,—and took of all the clean beasts and of all the clean birds, and caused ascending Sacrifices to go up on the altar.
And Yahweh smelled a satisfying odour, so Yahweh said to himself. I will not, again, curse any more the ground for man’s sake, although the device of the heart of man, be wicked from his youth,—neither will I again, any more smite every living thing, as I have done.
During all the days of the earth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease.