In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt.
Speak, and say, Thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great monster that lies in the midst of his rivers, that has said, My river is my own, and I have made it for myself.
And I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick to thy scales, and I will bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, with all the fish of thy rivers which stick to thy scales.
And I will cast thee forth into the wilderness, thee and all the fish of thy rivers. Thou shall fall upon the open field. Thou shall not be brought together, nor gathered. I have given thee for food to the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the heavens.
And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.
When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou broke, and tore all their shoulders. And when they leaned upon thee, thou broke, and made all their loins to be at a stand still.
Therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring a sword upon thee, and will cut off from thee man and beast.
And the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste. And they shall know that I am Jehovah. Because he has said, The river is mine, and I have made it,
therefore, behold, I am against thee, and against thy rivers. And I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from the tower of Seveneh even to the border of Ethiopia.
No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass through it. Neither shall it be inhabited forty years.
And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the countries that are desolate. And her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years. And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.
For thus says the lord Jehovah: At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the peoples where they were scattered,
and I will bring back the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their birth. And they shall be a base kingdom there.
It shall be the basest of the kingdoms, nor shall it lift itself up any more above the nations. And I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations.
And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to remembrance, when they turn to look after them. And they shall know that I am the lord Jehovah.
And it came to pass in the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, in the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre. Every head was made bald, and every shoulder was worn, yet he had no wages, nor his army, from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it.
Therefore thus says the lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall carry off her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey. And it shall be the wages for his army.
I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he served, because they worked for me, says the lord Jehovah.
In that day I will cause a horn to bud forth to the house of Israel, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst of them. And they shall know that I am Jehovah.