And when it was morning, all the chief priests and the elders of the people consulted together against Jesus, to put him to death.
And having bound him, they led him away, and delivered him up to Pilate the governor.
Then Judas, who betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,
saying, I sinned in betraying innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? See thou to it.
And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and withdrew; and went away and hanged himself.
And the chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since they are the price of blood.
And they consulted together, and bought with them the potter’s field, for a burial-place for strangers.
Wherefore that field hath been called, The Field of Blood, unto this day.
Then was fulfilled that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying, "And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was priced, whom they of the sons of Israel priced,
and gave them for the potter’s field; as the Lord commanded me."
And Jesus stood before the governor; and the governor questioned him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? And Jesus said, I am.
And when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he made no answer.
Then saith Pilate to him, Dost thou not hear what things they are testifying against thee?
And he made him no answer, not even to one word; so that the governor greatly wondered.
Now at the feast the governor was wont to release to the multitude one prisoner, whom they would.
And they had then a notorious prisoner, called Barabbas.
When therefore they were assembled, Pilate said to them, Whom will ye that I release to you? Barabbas, or Jesus, who is called Christ?
For he knew that for envy they had delivered him up.
And while he was sitting on the judgment-seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that righteous man; for I have suffered much this day in a dream because of him.
But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes to ask for Barabbas, and to destroy Jesus.
And the governor answering said to them, Which of the two will ye that I release to you? And they said, Barabbas.
Pilate saith to them, What then shall I do with Jesus, who is called Christ? They all say, Let him be crucified.
And he said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let him be crucified.
And when Pilate saw that it availed nothing, but that rather a tumult was arising, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of this blood; see ye to it.
And all the people answering said, His blood be on us, and on our children.
Then he released Barabbas to them, and having scourged Jesus, he delivered him up to be crucified.
Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor’s palace, and gathered to him the whole band.
And they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe.
And having platted a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and bowing the knee before him, they mocked him, saying, Hail, king of the Jews!
And they spit upon him, and took the reed and struck him on the head.
And after they had made sport of him, they took off the robe from him, and put on him his own garments, and led him away to crucify him.
And as they were going out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name, whom they compelled to carry his cross.
And having come to a place called Golgotha, that is, Place of a Skull,
they gave him wine to drink mingled with gall; and when he had tasted it, he refused to drink.
And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them, casting lots.
And sitting down, they watched him there.
And they set up over his head the charge against him in writing: "This is Jesus the king of the Jews."
Then are crucified with him two robbers, one on the right hand, and one on the left.
And they who passed by reviled him, wagging their heads,
and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it up in three days, save thyself, if thou art the Son of God, and come down from the cross.
So also the chief priests, mocking, with the scribes and elders, said,
He saved others, cannot he save himself? He is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in him.
He trusteth in God; let him now deliver him, if he desireth him; for he said, I am the Son of God.
The robbers also, who were crucified with him, reviled him in the same manner.
And from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land, until the ninth hour.
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
Some of those standing there, when they heard this, said, This man is calling for Elijah.
And one of them immediately ran and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink.
But the rest said, Hold! let us see whether Elijah will come to save him.
And Jesus, crying out again with a loud voice, yielded up his spirit.
And, lo! the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom; and the earth, quaked, and the rocks were rent,
and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of holy men that slept, arose,
and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection went into the holy city and appeared to many.
And the centurion and they who with him were watching Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and what was taking place, were exceedingly afraid, saying, Truly this was the Son of God.
And many women were there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, rendering services to him;
among whom was Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
And at evening there came a rich man of Arimathaea, named Joseph, who was himself also a disciple of Jesus.
This man went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given him.
And Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock, and having rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, went away.
And Mary the Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre.
And on the next day, that following the day of the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees came together to Pilate,
saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, After three days I rise.
Command therefore that the sepulchre be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples come and steal him away, and say to the people, He hath risen from the dead; and the last error will be worse than the first.
Pilate said to them, Ye have a guard; go, make it as secure as ye know how.
And they went, and made the sepulchre secure, sealing the stone, and setting the guard.