But we, the strong ones, ought to bear the weaknesses of those not strong, and not to please ourselves.
For let each one of us please his neighbor for good, to building up.
For also Christ did not please Himself, but even as it has been written, "The curses of those cursing You fell on Me." LXX-Psa. 68:10; MT-Psa. 69:9
For whatever things were written before were written for our instruction, that through patience and encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
And may the God of patience and encouragement give to you to mind the same thing among one another according to Christ Jesus,
that with one accord and with one mouth you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Because of this, receive one another as Christ also received us, to the glory of God.
And I say, Jesus Christ has become a minister of circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises of the fathers,
and for the nations to glorify God for mercy, even as it has been written, "Because of this I will confess to You in the nations, and I will give praise to Your name." Psa. 18:49
And again He says, "Rejoice, nations, with His people." Deut. 32:43
And again, "Praise the Lord, all the nations, and praise Him all the peoples." Psa. 117:1
And again Isaiah says, "The Root of Jesse shall be, and He rising up to rule the nations; on Him nations will hope." Isa. 11:10
And may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, for you to abound in hope, in power of the Holy Spirit.
But, my brothers, I myself also am persuaded concerning you, that you yourselves also are full of goodness, being filled with all knowledge, being able to warn one another.
But I wrote to you more boldly, brothers, as reminding you in part, because of the grace given to me by God,
for me to be a minister of Jesus Christ to the nations, sacredly ministering the gospel of God, that the offering of the nations might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
Therefore I have boasting in Christ Jesus as to the things pertaining to God.
For I will not dare to speak of anything which Christ did not work out through me for the obedience of the nations in word and work,
in power of miracles and wonders, in power of the Spirit of God, so as for me to have fulfilled the preaching of the gospel of Christ from Jerusalem and in a circle as far as Illyricum.
And so eagerly striving to preach the gospel where Christ was not named, so that I should not build on another's foundation,
but even as it has been written, "They shall see, to whom nothing was announced concerning Him; and the ones that have not heard shall understand." Isa. 52:15
Because of this I also was much hindered from coming to you,
but now having no more place in these regions, and having a longing to come to you for many years,
whenever I may go into Spain, I will come to you; for I hope in traveling through to see you and to be set forward there by you, if first I may be filled of you in part.
But now I am going to Jerusalem, doing service to the saints.
For Macedonia and Achaia thought it good to make certain gifts to the poor of the saints in Jerusalem.
For they thought it good, also being debtors of them; for if the nations shared in their spiritual things, they ought also to minister to them in the fleshly things.
Then completing and having sealed this fruit to them, I will go through you into Spain.
And I know that I will come to you in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ when I come.
But I exhort you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,
that I be delivered from the disobedient ones in Judea, and that my ministry, which is to Jerusalem, may be acceptable to the saints,
that I may come to you in joy through the will of God, and that I may be refreshed with you.
And the God of peace be with all of you. Amen.