The word of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Sonne of man, say vnto the prince of Tyrus, Thus saieth the Lord God, Because thine heart is exalted, and thou hast said, I am a God, I sit in the seat of God in ye mids of the sea, yet thou art but a man and not God, and though thou didest thinke in thine heart, that thou wast equall with God,
Behold, thou art wiser then Daniel: there is no secrete, that they can hide from thee.
With thy wisedome and thine vnderstanding thou hast gotten thee riches, and hast gotten golde and siluer into thy treasures.
By thy great wisedome and by thine occupying hast thou increased thy riches, and thine heart is lifted vp because of thy riches.
Therefore thus sayeth the Lord God, Because thou didest thinke in thine heart, that thou wast equall with God,
Behold, therefore I wil bring strangers vpon thee, euen the terrible nations: and they shall drawe their swordes against the beautie of thy wisedome, and they shall defile thy brightnes.
They shall cast thee downe to the pit, and thou shalt die the death of them, that are slaine in the middes of the sea.
Wilt thou say then before him, that slayeth thee, I am a god? but thou shalt be a man, and no God, in the hands of him that slayeth thee.
Thou shalt die the death of the vncircumcised by the hands of stragers: for I haue spoken it, sayth the Lord God.
Moreouer the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Sonne of man, take vp a lamentation vpon the King of Tyrus, and say vnto him, Thus sayeth the Lord God, Thou sealest vp the summe, and art full of wisedome and perfite in beautie.
Thou hast ben in Eden the garden of God: euery precious stone was in thy garment, the rubie, the topaze and the diamonde, the chrysolite, the onix, and the iasper, the saphir, emeraude, and the carbuncle and golde: the woorkemanship of thy timbrels, and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created.
Thou art the anointed Cherub, that couereth, and I haue set thee in honour: thou wast vpon the holy mountaine of God: thou hast walked in the middes of the stones of fire.
Thou wast perfite in thy wayes from the day that thou wast created, till iniquitie was found in thee.
By the multitude of thy marchandise, they haue filled the middes of thee with crueltie, and thou hast sinned: therefore I will cast thee as prophane out of the mountaine of God: and I will destroy thee, O couering Cherub from the mids of the stones of fire.
Thine heart was lifted vp because of thy beautie, and thou hast corrupted thy wisedome by reason of thy brightnes: I wil cast thee to ye grounde: I will lay thee before Kinges that they may beholde thee.
Thou hast defiled thy sanctification by the multitude of thine iniquities, and by the iniquitie of thy marchandise: therefore wil I bring forth a fire from the mids of thee, which shall deuoure thee: and I wil bring thee to ashes vpon the earth, in the sight of all them that beholde thee.
All they that knowe thee among the people, shalbe astonished at thee: thou shalt be a terrour, and neuer shalt thou be any more.
Againe, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Sonne of man, set thy face against Zidon, and prophesie against it,
And say, Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I come against thee, O Zidon, and I will be glorified in the mids of thee: and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall haue executed iudgements in her, and shalbe sanctified in her.
For I wil send into her pestilence, and blood into her streetes, and the slaine shall fall in the middes of her: the enemie shall come against her with the sword on euery side, and they shall know that I am the Lord.
And they shalbe no more a pricking thorne vnto the house of Israel, nor any grieuous thorne of all that are round about them, and despised them, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord God.
Thus saith the Lord God, When I shall haue gathered the house of Israel from the people where they are scattered, and shalbe sanctified in them in the sight of the heathen, then shall they dwel in the land, that I haue giuen to my seruant Iaakob.
And they shall dwell safely therein, and shall builde houses, and plant vineyards: yea, they shall dwell safely, when I haue executed iudgements vpon al round about them that despise them, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord their God.