The wicked flee though no one is pursuing, but the righteous are as bold as a lion.
Because of transgression in a land, many are its rulers, but it is prolonged by a man who has understanding, who knows right .
A poor man that oppresses the weak is like a sweeping rain that leaves no food.
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law strive with them.
Evil men do not understand justice, but those seeking Jehovah understand all.
Better is the poor walking in his integrity than the perverse of two ways, even if he is rich.
He who keeps the law is a wise son, but he who is a feeder of gluttons shames his father.
He who multiplies his wealth by interest and usury, he shall gather it for him who pities the weak.
Whoever turns aside his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.
He who causes the upright to go astray in an evil way shall fall into his own pit, and the blameless shall inherit good.
A rich man is wise in his own eyes, but the discerning poor searches him out.
When the righteous rejoice, great is the glory, but when the wicked rise, a man will be sought for.
He who covers his sins never prospers, but he who confesses and forsakes them shall have pity.
Oh the happiness of a man who is awed by God constantly! But he who hardens his heart falls into evil.
The wicked ruler is a roaring lion and a ranging bear over a helpless people.
The ruler that lacks understanding even adds oppressions, but he who hates unjust gain prolongs his days.
Any man oppressed with the blood of a soul shall flee to the pit; let them not uphold him.
He who walks uprightly shall be saved, but he who is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
He who cultivates his ground shall have plenty of bread, but one pursuing vanities shall have much poverty.
A faithful man shall be full of blessings, but he rushing to be rich shall not be innocent.
To respect faces is not good, yea, for a man will transgress for a piece of bread.
A man with an evil eye hastens after wealth, but he does not know that poverty will come on him.
He who reproves a man afterwards finds grace, more than he who flatters with the tongue.
He who robs his father or his mother, and says, It is not a transgression, he shall be a companion to a destroyer.
The proud in soul stirs up strife, but he who is trusting on Jehovah shall be abundantly satisfied.
He who trusts in his own heart is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom shall be delivered.
He who gives to the poor shall not lack, but he who hides his eyes shall have plenty of curses.
When the wicked rise, a man hides himself; but when they perish, the righteous multiply.