And the war between the house of Saul and the house of David was prolonged,—and, David, waxed stronger and stronger, and, the house of Saul, became weaker and weaker.
And there were born unto David, sons, in Hebron,—and it came to press that—His firstborn was Amnon, by Ahinoam, the Jezreelitess;
And his second Chileab, by Abigail, wife of Nabal the Carmelite, And the third Absolom, son of Maachah, daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur;
And the fourth Adonijah, son of Higgith,—And the fifth Shephatiah, son of Abital;
And the sixth Ithream, by Eglah wife of David. These, were born unto David, in Hebron.
And it came to pass, while the war continued between the house of Saul and the house of David, that, Abner, shewed himself courageous for the house of Saul.
Now, Saul, had a concubine, whose name, was Rizpah daughter of Aiah,—and [Ish-bosheth] said unto Abner, Why, wentest thou in, unto my father’s concubine?
And it provoked Abner greatly, on account of the words of Ish-bosheth, and he said—Am I, the head of the dogs, that pertain unto Judah? To-day, would I deal in lovingkindness with the house of Saul thy father, towards his brethren, and towards his friends, and have not delivered thee into the hand of David,—and yet thou hast charged upon me the transgression of the woman, today.
So, may God do unto Abner, and, so, may he add to him,—if, as Yahweh hath sworn unto David, even so, I deal not with him;
by turning over the kingdom from the house of Saul,—and establishing the throne of David, over Israel and over Judah, from Dan, even unto Beer-sheba.
And he could no further answer Abner, a word,—because he feared him.
So Abner sent messengers unto David, on the spot, saying—Whose, is the land? Saying [also] —Solemnise thy covenant with me; and lo! my hand, shall be with thee, to bring round unto thee, all Israel.
And he said—Good! I, will solemnise with thee a covenant,—but, one thing, must I ask of thee, saying—Thou shalt not see my face, except thou have brought in Michal, Saul’s daughter, when thou comest to see my face.
And David sent messengers unto Ish-bosheth son of Saul, saying,—Give up my wife, Michal, whom I espoused to myself, for a hundred foreskins of Philistines.
So Ish-bosheth sent and took her from her husband,—from Paltiel, son of Laish.
And her husband went along with her, weeping as he went behind her, as far as Behurim,—when Abner said unto him—Go, return. And he returned.
Then had Abner, speech, with the elders of Israel, saying,—In times past, ye were seeking David, to be king over you.
Now, therefore, act,—for Yahweh, spake unto David, saying, By the hand of David my servant, will I save my people Israel, out of the hand of the Philistines, and out of the hand of all their enemies.
And Abner also spake in the ears of Benjamin, —and Abner also went to speak in the ears of David, in Hebron, all that was pleasing in the eyes of Israel, and in the eyes of all the house of Benjamin.
So, when Abner came in unto David, in Hebron, and, with him, twenty men, David made, for Abner, and for the men who were with him, a banquet.
Then said Abner unto David—I will verily arise and go, and gather together unto my lord the king, all Israel—that they may solemnise with thee a covenant, so shalt thou reign over all that thy soul desireth. And David let Abner go, and he departed in peace.
And lo! the servants of David, and Joab, came in from a raid, and, great spoil, brought they in with them; but, Abner, was not with David in Hebron, for he had let him go, and he had departed in peace.
When, Joab, and all the host that was with him, had come in, then told they Joab, saying, Abner son of Ner hath been in unto the king, and he hath let him go, and he hath departed in peace.
Then Joab came in unto the king, and said—What hast thou done? Lo! Abner came in unto thee. Wherefore is it that thou didst let him go, so that he is clean departed?
Thou knowest Abner son of Ner, that, to deceive thee, he came,—and to take knowledge of thy going out, and thy coming in, and to take knowledge of all that thou art doing.
And, when Joab had come out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, and brought him back from the well of Sirah,—but, David, knew it not.
So Abner returned to Hebron, and Joab took him aside into the midst of the gate, to speak with him quietly,—and then smote him there, in the belly, that he died, for the blood of Asahel the brother of Joab.
And, when David heard of it, after that, he said—Guiltless, am I and my kingdom before Yahweh, unto times age-abiding,—of the blood of Abner son of Ner.
Let it be hurled upon the head of Joab, and against all his father’s house,—and let there not fail from the house of Joab—one that hath an issue, or a leper, or one that leaneth on a crutch, or that falleth by the sword, or that lacketh bread.
Thus, Joab and Abishai his brother, slew Abner,—because he had caused the death of Asahel their brother, in Gibeon, in the battle.
And David said unto Joab, and unto all the people who were with him,—Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and lament aloud before Abner. And, King David himself, was following the bier.
And they buried Abner in Hebron,—and the king lifted up his voice and wept, at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept.
And the king addressed his dirge unto Abner, and said,—As a base man dieth, should Abner have died?
Thy hands, were not bound, And, thy feet, near to fetters, were not brought, As one falleth before assassins, so didst thou fall! And again all the people wept over him.
And, when all the people came near to get David to eat bread, while yet it was day, David sware, saying—So, let God do to me, and, so, let him add, if, before the sun go in, I taste bread, or anything else.
And, all the people, took note of it, and it was noble in their eyes,—as, all that the king did, was, in the eyes of all the people, noble.
So then all the people, and all Israel, took note, that day, that it was not of the king, to cause the death of Abner son of Ner.
And the king said unto his servants,—Will ye not take note that, a prince and a great man, hath fallen this day, in Israel?
And, I myself, this day, am weak, though anointed king, but, these men, the sons of Zeruiah, are more severe than I: Yahweh repay, the doer of wickedness, according to his wickedness.