The Pharisees and the Sadducees came to Him, tempting Him. And they asked Him that He would show them a sign from Heaven.
He answered and said to them, When it is evening, you say, Fair weather; for the sky is red.
And in the morning, Foul weather today; for the sky is red and gloomy. Hypocrites! You can discern the face of the sky, but you cannot see the signs of the times!
A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign. And there shall no sign be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah. And He left them and went away.
And when His disciples had come to the other side, they forgot to take loaves.
And Jesus said to them, Take heed, and beware the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have taken no loaves.
And knowing Jesus said to them, Why do you reason among yourselves because you took no loaves, little-faiths?
Do you not yet understand, nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many hand baskets you took up;
nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many lunch baskets you took up?
How is it that you do not understand that I did not speak to you about loaves, but to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
Then they understood that He did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And coming into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, Jesus asked His disciples, saying, Who do men say Me to be, the Son of man?
And they said, Some say, John the Baptist; some, Elijah; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
He said to them, But who do you say I am?
And Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Jesus answered and said to him, You are blessed, Simon, son of Jonah, for flesh and blood did not reveal it to you, but My Father in Heaven.
And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build My church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
And I will give the keys of the kingdom of Heaven to you. And whatever you may bind on earth shall occur, having been bound in Heaven, and whatever you may loose on earth shall occur, having been loosed in Heaven.
Then He warned His disciples that they should tell no one that He was Jesus the Christ.
From that time Jesus began to show His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day.
Then Peter took Him and began to rebuke Him, saying, God be gracious to You, Lord! This shall never be to You.
But He turned and said to Peter, Go, Satan! You are an offense to Me, for you do not savor the things that are of God, but those that are of men.
Then Jesus said to His disciples, If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me.
For whoever desires to save his life shall lose it, and whoever desires to lose his life for My sake shall find it.
For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the Son of man shall come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He shall reward each one according to his works.
Truly I say to you, There are some standing here who shall not taste of death until they see the Son of man coming in His kingdom.