Therefore, brothers, I call on you through the compassions of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, pleasing to God, which is your reasonable service.
And be not conformed to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, in order to prove by you what is the good and pleasing and perfect will of God.
For through the grace which is given to me, I say to everyone being among you, not to have high thoughts beyond what is right to think. But set your mind to be right-minded, even as God divided a measure of faith to each.
For even as we have many members in one body, but all members do not have the same function,
so we the many are one body in Christ, and each one members of one another,
but having different gifts according to the grace given to us, whether prophecy, according to the proportion of faith;
or ministry, in the ministry; or the one teaching, in the teaching;
or the one exhorting, in the encouragement; the one sharing, in simplicity; the one taking the lead, in diligence; the one showing mercy, in cheerfulness.
Let love be without dissimulation, shrinking from evil, cleaving to the good,
in brotherly love to one another, loving fervently, having gone before one another in honor;
in diligence, not slothful, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord;
in hope, rejoicing; in affliction, enduring; in prayer, steadfastly continuing;
imparting to the needs of the saints, pursuing hospitality.
Bless those persecuting you; bless, and do not curse.
Rejoice with rejoicing ones, and weep with weeping ones;
minding the same thing toward one another, not minding high things, but yielding to the lowly. Do not become wise within yourselves.
Repay no one evil for evil, having provided right things before all men. Prov. 3:4
If possible, as far as is in you, seeking peace with all men;
not avenging yourselves, beloved, but giving place to wrath, for it has been written, "Vengeance is Mine," "I will repay," says the Lord. Deut. 32:35
Then "if your enemy hungers, feed him; if he thirsts, give him drink; for doing this you will heap coals of fire on his head." Prov. 25:21, 22
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome the evil with good.