AND having called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to cure every disease, and every malady.
Now these are the names of the twelve apostles; The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the tax-gatherer; James son of Alpheus, and Lebbeus, whose surname is Thaddeus;
Simon the Cananite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.
These twelve did Jesus send forth, commanding them, saying, Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter not:
but go rather to the sheep that are lost of the house of Israel.
And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is approaching.
Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give.
Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses,
nor a scrip for the journey, nor two coats, nor sandals, nor stick: for the workman is worthy of his food.
And into whatsoever city or village ye enter, enquire who in it is worthy; and there abide till ye depart.
And when ye come into a family, salute it:
and if the family shall be deserving, your peace shall come upon it: and if it be not deserving, your peace shall return to you.
And whosoever shall not receive you, nor attend to your discourses, go out of that house, or city, and shake off the dust of your feet.
Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.
Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore prudent as serpents, and harmless as doves.
But be on your guard against men: for they will deliver you up to the sanhedrim, and scourge you in their synagogues.
And ye shall be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and the heathen.
But when they shall deliver you up, be under no anxiety what ye shall say; for it shall be given you in that very hour what ye should speak:
for it is not you who are speaking, but the Spirit of your Father which is speaking in you.
Then brother shall surrender brother to death, and the father the son; and children shall rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death.
And ye shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake: but he that endureth to the end, that man shall be saved.
But when they shall persecute you in one city, flee unto another: for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not complete your circuit through the cities of Israel before the Son of man comes.
The disciple is not superior to his teacher, nor the servant above his master.
It is sufficient if the disciple be as his teacher, and the servant as his master. If they have called the master of the family Beelzebub, how much more his domestics?
However, fear them not: for there is nothing concealed, which shall not be discovered; nor hid, which shall not be known.
What I say unto you in the dark, publish in the light: and what ye hear whispered into the ear, proclaim upon the roofs.
And be not afraid of those who kill the body, and cannot kill the soul: but fear him rather who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of them shall not fall to the ground without your Father.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Fear not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows.
Every one therefore who shall make confession of me before men, of him will I also make confession before my Father who is in heaven.
But whosoever shall disown me before men, him will I also disown before my Father who is in heaven.
Think not that I am come to bring peace to the earth: I came not to bring peace, but a sword.
For I came to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
And the enemies of a man shall be those of his own house.
He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me, is not worthy of me.
And he that taketh not up his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me.
He that preserveth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall preserve it.
He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.
He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet, shall receive the reward of a prophet; and he that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man, shall receive the reward of a righteous man.
And whosoever shall give to one of these little ones, if but a cup of cold water to drink, in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.