Then Job responded to Yahweh, and said:—
I know that, all things, thou canst do, and that no purpose can be withholden from thee.
Who is it that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore, have I declared, but not understood, things too wonderful for me, which I could not know.
Hear thou, I pray thee, and, I, will speak, I will ask thee, and inform thou me.
By the hearing of the ear, had I heard thee, but, now, mine own eye, hath seen thee.
For this cause, I tremble and repent, on dust and ashes.
And it came to pass, after Yahweh had spoken these words unto Job, that Yahweh, said unto Eliphaz the Temanite, Kindled is mine anger against thee and against thy two friends, for ye have not spoken concerning me the thing that is right, like my servant Job.
Now, therefore, take unto you seven bullocks and seven rams, and go unto my servant Job, and ye shall offer up an ascending-sacrifice in your own behalf, and, Job my servant, shall pray over you,—for, him, will I accept, that I may not deal out to you disgrace, because ye have not spoken concerning me the thing that is right, like my servant Job.
So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite [and] Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according to that which Yahweh had spoken unto them,—and Yahweh accepted Job.
And, Yahweh himself, turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed in behalf of his friends,—and Yahweh increased all that Job had possessed, unto twice as much.
Then came unto him all his brethren and all his sisters, and all his former acquaintances, and they did eat bread with him in his house,—and shewed sympathy with him and comforted him, over all the calamity which Yahweh had brought upon him,—and they gave him, every one a weight of money, and every one, a ring of gold.
And, Yahweh, blessed the latter end of Job, more than his beginning,—and so he came to have fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she-asses.
And he came to have seven sons, and three daughters;
and he called the name of the first Jemima, and the name of the second Kezia,—and the name of the third, Keren-happuch.
And there were found no women so fair as the daughters of Job, in all the land,—and their father gave them an inheritance, in the midst of their brethren.
And Job lived, after this, a hundred and forty years,—and saw his sons and his sons’ sons, four generations.
So Job died, old and satisfied with days.