NOW on the first day of the week, at the earliest dawn of day, they came to the sepulchre, bringing the aromatics which they had prepared, and certain others with them.
And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.
And on entering, found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it came to pass, as they were in the greatest perplexity concerning this matter, then behold, two men stood by them in refulgent garments:
and when they were exceedingly terrified, and inclined their face to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?
he is not here; he is risen: remember how he spoke to you, while he was yet in Galilee,
saying, That the Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
And they remembered his declarations,
and returning from the sepulchre, told all these things to the eleven, and to the rest.
Now there were Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and the other women who were with them, that told these things to the apostles.
And their declarations seemed in their view as a mere fancy, and they gave them no credence.
Then Peter rising up, ran off to the sepulchre, and leaning forward saw the linen clothes laid separately, and went away wondering in himself what was become of him.
And behold, two of them were going the same day to a village, distant about sixty furlongs from Jerusalem, called Emmaus.
And they were conversing with each other, concerning all those things which had happened.
And it came to pass, as they were conversing together, and talking the matter over, even Jesus himself drew near, and walked on with them.
But their eyes were under a restraint, that they might not discover him.
And he said unto them, What are these discourses that ye interchange among you, as ye are walking, and bear such a face of dejection?
Then one of them, named Cleopas, answering said, Art thou the only sojourner at Jerusalem, who hath not known the singular events of those days?
And he said to them, Of what sort? and they said to him, Those which relate to Jesus the Nazarean, who was a man, a prophet, mighty in word and deed before God and all the people:
and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to a sentence of death, and crucified him.
But we had entertained hopes that this was the person who should have redeemed Israel: and ah! besides all these things, to-day concludes that third day since these things were done.
And indeed, certain women belonging to us exceedingly amazed us who were very early at the sepulchre;
and not finding his body, came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, who told them that he was alive.
And some of those who were with us went to the sepulchre, and found every thing just as the women had said: but him they did not see.
And he said unto them, O ye void of understanding, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!
Ought not the Messiah to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory?
And beginning from Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them in all the scriptures, the things relating to himself.
And they drew nigh to the village, whither they were going: and he was proceeding on, as if going farther.
And they warmly pressed him, saying, Stay with us: for the evening draws on, and the day declines. And he went in to stay with them.
And it came to pass, when he was sitting down at table with them, taking up a loaf, he blessed it, and breaking, distributed it to them.
Then their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he became invisible to them.
And they said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us, as he talked with us on the road, and as he distinctly opened to us the scriptures?
And rising up the same hour, they returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven and those who were with them crowded together,
saying, The Lord is risen assuredly, and hath appeared to Simon.
Then these recounted what had passed on the road, and how he was known to them by the breaking of the bread.
While they were relating these things, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you!
But terrified and affrighted, they thought they saw a spirit.
And he said to them, Why are ye under such agitation of mind? and why do reasonings arise in your hearts?
look upon my hands and my feet, that it is my very self: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
And thus speaking, he exposed to them his hands and his feet.
But when they still could not credit it for joy, and marvelled, he said unto them, Have ye here any thing eatable?
Then they gave him a part of a broiled fish, and a piece of honey-comb.
And receiving it, he did eat in their presence.
And said unto them, These are the sayings which I spake unto you, when I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the Psalms, concerning me.
Then opened he thoroughly their understanding, that they should understand the scriptures,
and said to them, That thus it is written, and thus must the Messiah suffer, and rise again from the dead the third day
and that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name unto all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
And ye are the witnesses of these things.
And, behold, I send unto you the promise of my Father: but sit ye down in the city of Jerusalem, until ye shall be endued with power from on high.
And he led them without the city as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them.
And it came to pass, as he pronounced the benediction upon them, he was parted from them, and taken up into heaven.
And they, after paying him their adorations, returned to Jerusalem with vast joy:
and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. \p