Bless Jehovah, O my soul. O Jehovah my God, thou are very great. Thou are clothed with honor and majesty,
who covers thyself with light as with a garment, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain,
who lays the beams of his chambers in the waters, who makes the clouds his chariot, who walks upon the wings of the wind,
who makes his agents spirits, his ministers a flame of fire,
who laid the foundations of the earth that it should not be moved forever.
Thou covered it with the deep as with a vesture. The waters stood above the mountains.
At thy rebuke they fled. At the voice of thy thunder they hastened away.
The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place which thou had founded for them.
Thou have set a bound that they may not pass over, that they turn not again to cover the earth.
He sends forth springs into the valleys. They run among the mountains.
They give drink to every beast of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst.
By them the birds of the heavens have their habitation. They sing among the branches.
He waters the mountains from his chambers. The earth is filled with the fruit of thy works.
He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and herbage for the service of man, that he may bring forth food out of the earth,
and wine that makes glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread that strengthens man's heart.
The trees of Jehovah are full, the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted,
where the birds make their nests. As for the stork, the fir trees are her house.
The high mountains are for the wild goats. The rocks are a refuge for the conies.
He appointed the moon for seasons. The sun knows his going down.
Thou make darkness, and it is night, during which all the beasts of the forest creep forth.
The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God.
The sun arises; they get away, and lie down in their dens.
Man goes forth to his work and to his labor until the evening.
O Jehovah, how manifold are thy works! In wisdom have thou made them all. The earth is full of thy riches.
Yonder is the sea, great and wide, in which are innumerable creeping things, both small and great beasts.
There go the ships. There is leviathan, whom thou have formed to play in it.
These all wait for thee, that thou may give them their food in due season.
Thou give to them, they gather. Thou open thy hand, they are satisfied with good.
Thou hide thy face, they are troubled. Thou take away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.
Thou send forth thy Spirit, they are created, and thou renew the face of the ground.
Let the glory of Jehovah endure forever. Let Jehovah rejoice in his works,
who looks on the earth, and it trembles. He touches the mountains, and they smoke.
I will sing to Jehovah as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have any being.
Let thy meditation be sweet to him. I will rejoice in Jehovah.
Let sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless Jehovah, O my soul. Praise ye Jehovah.