And Jesus went out and departed from the temple. And His disciples came to Him to show Him the buildings of the temple.
And Jesus said to them, Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, There shall not be left here one stone on another that shall not be thrown down.
And as He sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of Your coming, and of the end of the world?
And Jesus answered and said to them, Take heed that no man deceive you.
For many will come in My name, saying, I am Christ, and will deceive many.
And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not troubled, for all these things must occur; but the end is not yet.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in different places.
All these are the beginning of sorrows.
Then they will deliver you up to be afflicted and will kill you. And you will be hated of all nations for My name's sake.
And then many will be offended, and will betray one another, and will hate one another.
And many false prophets will rise and deceive many.
And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many will become cold.
But he who endures to the end, the same shall be kept safe.
And this gospel of the kingdom shall be proclaimed in all the world as a witness to all nations. And then the end shall come.
Therefore when you see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place (whoever reads, let him understand).
Then let those in Judea flee into the mountains.
Let him on the housetop not come down to take anything out of his house;
nor let him in the field turn back to take his clothes.
And woe to those who are with child, and to those who give suck in those days!
But pray that your flight is not in the winter, nor on the sabbath day;
for then shall be great tribulation, such as has not been since the beginning of the world to this time; no, nor ever shall be.
And unless those days should be shortened, no flesh would be saved. But for the elect's sake, those days shall be shortened.
Then if any man shall say to you, Lo, here is Christ! Or, There! Do not believe it.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise and show great signs and wonders; so much so that, if it were possible, they would deceive even the elect.
Behold, I have told you beforehand.
Therefore if they shall say to you, Behold, He is in the desert! Do not go out. Behold, He is in the secret rooms! Do not believe it.
For as the lightning comes out of the east and shines even to the west, so also will be the coming of the Son of man.
For wherever the carcass is, there the eagles will be gathered.
And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun shall be darkened and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from the heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken.
And then the sign of the Son of man shall appear in the heavens. And then all the tribes of the earth shall mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of the heaven with power and great glory.
And He shall send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather His elect from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other.
Now learn a parable of the fig tree. When its branch is still tender and puts out leaves, you know that summer is near.
So you, likewise, when you see all these things, shall know that it is near, at the doors.
Truly I say to you, This generation shall not pass until all these things are fulfilled.
The heaven and the earth shall pass away, but My words shall not pass away.
But of that day and hour no one knows, no, not the angels of Heaven, but only My Father.
But as the days of Noah were, so shall be the coming of the Son of man.
For as in the days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day Noah entered into the ark.
And they did not know until the flood came and took them all away. So also will be the coming of the Son of man.
Then two shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Two shall be grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Therefore watch; for you do not know what hour your Lord comes.
But know this, that if the steward of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched and would not have allowed his house to be dug through.
Therefore you also be ready, for in that hour you think not, the Son of man comes.
Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his Lord has made ruler over his household, to give them food in due season?
Blessed is that servant whom his lord shall find him doing so when he comes.
Truly I say to you that he shall make him ruler over all his goods.
But if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord delays his coming,
and shall begin to strike his fellow servants, and to eat and drink with the drunken,
the lord of that servant shall come in a day when he does not look for him, and in an hour which he does not know.
And he shall cut him apart and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.