Now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the passover, was drawing near;
and the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might kill him; for they feared the people.
And Satan entered into Judas called Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve.
And he went away, and consulted with the chief priests and captains, how he might deliver him up to them.
And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money.
And he agreed with them, and sought a good opportunity to deliver him up to them in the absence of the multitude.
Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must be killed;
and he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and make ready for us the passover, that we may eat it.
And they said to him, Where wilt thou that we make it ready?
And he said to them, Lo! when ye have entered the city, there will meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he goeth in;
and ye shall say to the master of the house, The Teacher saith to thee, Where is the guest-chamber, where I may eat the passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room furnished; there make ready.
And they went and found as he had said to them; and they made ready the passover.
And when the hour had come, he placed himself at table, and the apostles with him.
And he said to them, Earnestly have I desired to eat this passover with you, before I suffer.
For I say to you, that I shall eat it no more, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And he took a cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves.
For I say to you, that I shall not drink henceforth of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall have come.
And he took a loaf, and gave thanks, and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you; this do in remembrance of me.
And in like manner he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is about to be shed for you.
But lo! the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table.
For the Son of man indeed goeth away, as it hath been determined; but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed.
And they began to inquire among themselves, which of them it was that was about to do this.
And there arose also a contention among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest.
And he said to them, The kings of the nations rule as lords over them, and they who exercise authority over them are called benefactors.
But it is not to be so with you; but let the greatest among you be as the youngest; and he that is chief, as he that serveth.
For which is greater? he who reclineth at the table, or he who serveth? Is not he that reclineth at the table? But I am in the midst of you as he who serveth.
Ye however are they who have continued steadfastly with me in my trials.
And I appoint to you a kingdom, as my Father appointed to me;
that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom; and ye shall sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Simon, Simon, lo! Satan hath asked for you, that he may sift you as wheat.
But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. And do thou, when thou hast returned to me, strengthen thy brethren.
And he said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both to prison and to death.
And he said, I tell thee, Peter, a cock will not crow this day, till thou hast thrice denied that thou knowest me.
And he said to them, When I sent you without purse, or bag, or sandals, were ye in need of anything? And they said, Of nothing. Then he said to them,
But now, he that hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise a bag; and he that hath not, let him sell his garment, and buy a sword.
For I say to you, that this which is written must be accomplished in me: "And he was reckoned among transgressors." For that which concerneth me also hath an end.
And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said to him, It is enough!
And going out, he went, as he was wont, to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples followed him.
And when he was at the place, he said to them, Pray that ye may not enter into temptation.
And he withdrew from them about a stone’s throw; and kneeling down he prayed,
saying, Father, if thou art willing to remove this cup from me—yet not my will, but thine be done!
And there appeared to him an angel from heaven, strengthening him.
And being in an agony, he prayed more earnestly. And his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling to the ground.
And rising up from prayer, he came to the disciples, and found them sleeping for sorrow,
and said to them, Why sleep ye? Rise, and pray that ye may not enter into temptation.
While he was yet speaking, lo! a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, was at the head of them; and he drew near to Jesus to kiss him.
But Jesus said to him, Judas, dost thou betray the Son of man with a kiss?
And they who were about him, seeing what would follow, said, Lord, shall we smite with the sword?
And one of them smote the servant of the high-priest, and cut off his right ear.
But Jesus answering said, Permit thus far; and touched his ear, and healed him.
Then Jesus said to the chief priests and captains of the temple and elders who had come to him, Ye have come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs;
when I was daily with you in the temple, ye did not put forth your hands against me; but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
And they seized him, and led him away, and brought him into the house of the high-priest. And Peter followed afar off.
And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the court, and had sat down together, Peter sat down among them.
But a certain maid-servant saw him sitting at the fire, and steadily looking at him said, This man also was with him.
And he denied him, saying, Woman, I do not know him.
And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou also art one of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.
And in about one hour’s time, another confidently affirmed, saying, In truth this man also was with him; for he is a Galilaean.
And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he was yet speaking, a cock crew.
And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter; and Peter remembered the word of the Lord, that he had said to him, Before a cock crows this day, thou wilt thrice deny me.
And he went out, and wept bitterly.
And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and beat him;
and having blindfolded him, they asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that struck thee?
And many other things did they scoffingly say against him.
And when it was day, the elders of the people, both chief priests and scribes, came together, and brought him before their council, saying,
If thou art the Christ, tell us. And he said to them, If I tell you, ye will not believe;
and if I ask, ye will not answer.
But from this time the Son of man will sit on the right hand of the power of God.
Then they all said, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said to them, Ye say what is true; for I am.
And they said, What further need have we of testimony? For we have ourselves heard from his own mouth.