And, straightway, early, when they had made, a council, the High-priest, with the Elders, and Scribes, and all the High-council, binding Jesus, led him away, and delivered him up unto Pilate.
And Pilate questioned him—Art, thou, the king of the Jews? And, he, answering him, saith—Thou, sayest.
And the High-priests began to accuse him, of many things.
And, Pilate, again, was questioning him, [saying]—Answerest thou, nothing? See! of how many things, they are accusing thee!
But, Jesus, no further, answered, anything, so that Pilate began to marvel.
Now, at feast time, he was wont to release unto them one prisoner, whom they were claiming.
And there was the so-called Barabbas, with the rebels, bound, even with them who, in the rebellion, had committed, murder.
And, going up, the multitude began to be claiming—according as he was wont to do for them.
But, Pilate, answered them, saying—Will ye, I release unto you, the King of the Jews?
For he was getting to know that, for envy, had [the High-priests] delivered him up.
But, the High-priests, stirred up the multitude, that, rather Barabbas, he should release unto them.
But, Pilate, again answering, was saying unto them—What then shall I do with him whom ye call, the King of the Jews?
And, they, again, cried out—Crucify him!
But, Pilate, was saying unto them—Why! what, evil, hath he done? And, they, vehemently, cried out—Crucify him!
And Pilate, being minded to do what would satisfy, the multitude, released unto them Barabbas, and delivered up Jesus, having scourged him, that he should be crucified.
And, the soldiers, led him away, inside the court, which is a judgment-hall,—and called together the whole band;
and they array him in purple, and set upon him, when they have plaited it; a crown of thorns,—
and began to be saluting him—Joy to thee! King of the Jews!
and were striking him on the head with a reed, and were spitting at him,—and, bowing their knees, were doing him homage.
And, when they had mocked him, they put off him, the purple, and put on him, his own garments. And they lead him forth, that they may crucify him.
And they impress a certain passer-by, Simon a Cyrenian, coming from a field, the father of Alexander and Rufus,—that he may carry his cross.
And they bring him unto the Golgotha place, which is, being translated, Skull-place.
And they would have given him, myrrhed wine,—who, however, received it not.
And they crucify him, and part asunder his garments, casting a lot upon them—who should have anything.
And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
And the inscription of his accusation, had been inscribed—THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And, with him, they crucify, two robbers, one on his right hand, and one on his left.

And, the passers-by, were reviling him, shaking their heads, and saying—Aha! thou who wast pulling down the shrine, and building one in three days!
Save thyself,—coming down from the cross.
Likewise, the High-priests also, mocking one to another, with the Scribes, were saying—Others, he saved, himself, he cannot save!
The Christ, the King of Israel—let him come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe. And, they who had been crucified with him, were casting it in his teeth.
And, when it was the sixth hour, darkness, came on all the land—until the ninth hour;
and, at the ninth hour, Jesus, uttered a cry, with a loud voice—Eloi! Eloi! lama sabachthanei? which is, being translated—My God! [My God!] to what end, didst thou forsake me?
And, some of the by-standers, having heard, were saying—See! Elijah, he calleth!
And one, running, filled a sponge with vinegar, and, putting it about a reed, was giving him to drink, saying—Stay! let us see whether Elijah is coming, to take him down!
But, Jesus, sending out a loud voice, ceased to breathe.
And, the veil of the Temple, was rent into two, from top to bottom.
Now the centurion, who was standing near, out over against him, seeing, that, thus, he ceased to breathe, said—Truly, this man, was God’s son!
And there were, women also, from afar, looking on,—among whom were both Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the Little and Joses, and Salome;
who, when he was in Galilee, used to follow him, and minister unto him,—and many other women, who had come up with him unto Jerusalem.
And evening, already, having begun, since it was a preparation, that is, the eve of a Sabbath,
Joseph of Arimathaea, a noble counsellor, who, also himself, was awaiting the kingdom of God, came; and, venturing, went in unto Pilate, and claimed the body of Jesus.
But, Pilate, wondered whether, already, he was dead; and, calling near the centurion, questioned him—whether he had, already, died.
And, getting to know from the centurion, he presented the corpse unto Joseph.
And, buying a fine Indian cloth, he took him down, and wrapped him about with the cloth, and laid him in a tomb, which had been hewn out of a rock,—and rolled near a stone upon the door of the tomb.
Now, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of Joses, were viewing how he had been laid.