Therefore, having this ministry, even as we obtained mercy, we do not faint.
But we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor adulterating the word of God, but by the revelation of the truth commending ourselves to every conscience of men before God.
But also if our gospel is being hidden, it has been hidden in those being lost,
in whom the god of this age has blinded the thoughts of the unbelieving, so that the brightness of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should not dawn on them.
For we do not proclaim ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves your slaves for the sake of Jesus.
Because it is God who said, "Out of darkness Light shall shine," who shone in our hearts to give the brightness of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Isa. 42:6, 7, 16
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the excellence of the power may be of God, and not from us;
in every way being troubled, but not having been hemmed in; having been perplexed, but not utterly at a loss;
being persecuted, but not having been forsaken; being thrown down, but not having been destroyed;
always bearing about the dying of the Lord Jesus in the body, that also the life of Jesus may be revealed in our body.
For we who live are always being delivered up to death on account of Jesus, that also the life of Jesus may be revealed in our mortal flesh;
so that death indeed works in us, and life in you.
But having the same spirit of faith, according to what has been written, "I believed, therefore I spoke," we also believe, therefore we also speak, LXX-Psa. 115:1; MT-Psa. 116:10
knowing that He who raised up the Lord Jesus will also raise us up through Jesus, and will present us with you.
For all things are for your sake, that the super abounding grace may be made to abound through the thanksgiving of the greater number, to the glory of God.
Because of this, we do not faint, but if indeed our outward man is being decayed, yet the inward man is being renewed day by day.
For the lightness of our present affliction works out for us an eternal weight of glory, surpassing moment by surpassing moment ;
we not considering the things seen, but the things not being seen; for the things being seen are not lasting, but the things not being seen are everlasting.