WHEN Festus then was come into the province, after three days he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
And the high-priest and the principal persons among the Jews informed him against Paul, and entreated him,
begging it as a favour from him, that he would send him back to Jerusalem, lying in wait for him to kill him on the road.
Then Festus answered, that Paul should be kept in custody at Caesarea, and that he himself was going thither shortly.
Let therefore, said he, those among you who are able, go down with me, and accuse him, if there be anything criminal in this man.
And after staying with them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea; and on the morrow seated on the bench, commanded Paul to be brought.
And on his appearing, the Jews who came down from Jerusalem surrounded him, and laid many and heavy accusations against Paul, which they were not able to prove.
But he pleaded in his defence, That neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar, have I committed the least offence.
Then Festus, desirous of ingratiating himself with the Jews, replying to Paul, said, Wilt thou go up unto Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me?
Then said Paul, I am standing before the tribunal of Caesar, where I have a right to be judged: against the Jews I have committed no offence, as thou also clearly perceivest.
For indeed if I have committed any crime, or done aught worthy of death, I object not to be put to death: but if there is nothing in those things whereof they accuse me, no man dare gratify them by abandoning me to them.
I appeal unto Caesar.   Then Festus, after conferring with the council, answered, Hast thou appealed to Caesar? to Caesar shalt thou go.
Now when some days were passed, Agrippa and Bernice came to Caesarea to salute Festus.
And as their stay there was extended to a considerable time, Festus communicated to the king Paul’s affairs, saying, There is a certain man left by Felix, a prisoner:
against whom when I was at Jerusalem, the high-priest and the elders of the Jews appeared, desiring judgment against him.
To whom I replied, That it was not customary for Romans to give up any man gratuitously to destruction, before that the person accused should have his accusers produced face to face, and be allowed opportunity to defend himself against the charge.
When therefore they were come here together, making no demur, the very next day I sat on the tribunal, and commanded the man to be brought.
Against whom his accusers standing forth, brought no charge of such things as I expected:
but only pleaded against him certain disputes about their own mode of religious worship, and about one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
But being in doubt respecting a question of this sort, I demanded if he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things.
But Paul appealing that he should be reserved for the cognizance of Augustus, I ordered him to be kept in custody until I should send him to Caesar.
Then Agrippa said to Festus, I wish also myself to hear the man. He said, To-morrow thou shalt hear him.
On the morrow therefore, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with a very splendid retinue, and were entered into the place of audience, with the military tribunes, and the men of superior eminence in the city, then at the order of Festus Paul was produced.
And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all you, sirs, who are present with us, behold the man, concerning whom the whole multitude of the Jews have set upon me, both at Jerusalem and in this place, clamouring that he ought not to live a moment longer.
But finding on inquiry that he had done nothing worthy of death, and he himself indeed having appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.
Respecting whom I have nothing determinate to write to my sovereign. Wherefore I have brought him forth before you, and especially before thee, king Agrippa, that on a fresh examination taken, I might have something to write.
For it appears to me highly unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not also signify the charges against him.