And as he was going out from the temple, one of his disciples said to him: Teacher, see what stones and what buildings!
And Jesus answering, said to him: Do you see these great buildings? There shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.
And as he sat on the mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately:
Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished?
Jesus answering them, began to say: Take heed, lest any one deceive you.
For many will come in my name, saying, I am he, and will deceive many.
But when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, be not troubled; for these things must be: but not yet is the end.
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines, and tumults.
These are the beginning of sorrows. But take heed to yourselves; for they will deliver you up to councils, and you will be scourged in the synagogues; and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them.
And the gospel must first be preached among all the nations.
But when they lead you to deliver you up, be not anxious beforehand, nor premeditate what you shall speak; but whatever shall be given you in that hour, that do you speak; for it is not you that speak, but the Holy Spirit.
Brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father the child; and children will rise up against their parents, and cause them to be put to death;
and you will be hated by all on my account. But he that endures to the end shall be saved.
But when you see that detestable thing that makes desolate, which is spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him that reads understand,) then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains;
let not him that is on the house-top go down into his house, nor enter in to take any thing from his house;
and let not him that is in the field turn back to take his mantle.
But alas for those who are with child, and for those who give suck in those days.
And pray that your flight may not be in the winter.
For these will be the days of affliction, such as has not been from the beginning of the creation which God created, till this time, and will never be.
And unless the Lord had made those days few, no flesh could be saved: but for the sake of the elect whom he has chosen, he has made those days few.
And then, if any one say to you: Lo! here is the Christ, or, Lo! there; believe him not.
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will show signs and wonders, in order to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.
But do you take heed: behold, I have told you all things beforehand.
But in those days, after that affliction, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give her light,
and the stars of heaven will fall, and the hosts that are in the heavens will be shaken.
And then shall they see the Son of man coming in clouds with great power and glory.
And then will he send his angels, and gather his elect from the four winds, from the most distant part of earth to the most distant part of heaven.
But learn a parable from the fig-tree: As soon as its branch becomes tender, and puts forth leaves, you know that summer is near.
So, also, when you see these things coming to pass, know that it is near, at the doors.
Verily I say to you, this generation shall not pass away, till all these things take place.
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.
But of that day or that hour no one knows: neither the angels who are in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.
Take heed, watch and pray: for you know not when the time is.
As a man, going into another country, leaves his house, and gives authority to his servants, and to each one his own work, and commands the door-keeper to watch;
watch you therefore; for you know not when the master of the house comes, whether at evening, or at midnight, or at the crowing of the cock, or in the morning;
lest he come suddenly, and find you sleeping.
What I say to you, I say to all, Watch.