Therefore, having been justified by faith, let us be at peace with God, through our Lord Jesus Christ.
For through him we also have access by faith to this grace, in which we stand firm, and to glory, in the hope of the glory of the sons of God.
And not only that, but we also find glory in tribulation, knowing that tribulation exercises patience,
and patience leads to proving, yet truly proving leads to hope,
but hope is not unfounded, because the love of God is poured forth in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
Yet why did Christ, while we were still infirm, at the proper time, suffer death for the impious?
Now someone might barely be willing to die for the sake of justice, for example, perhaps someone might dare to die for the sake of a good man.
But God demonstrates his love for us in that, while we were yet sinners, at the proper time,
Christ died for us. Therefore, having been justified now by his blood, all the more so shall we be saved from wrath through him.
For if we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, while we were still enemies, all the more so, having been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
And not only that, but we also glory in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into this world, and through sin, death; so also death was transferred to all men, to all who have sinned.
For even before the law, sin was in the world, but sin was not imputed while the law did not exist.
Yet death reigned from Adam until Moses, even in those who have not sinned, in the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is a figure of him who was to come.
But the gift is not entirely like the offense. For though by the offense of one, many died, yet much more so, by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ, has the grace and gift of God abounded to many.
And the sin through one is not entirely like the gift. For certainly, the judgment of one was unto condemnation, but the grace toward many offenses is unto justification.
For though, by the one offense, death reigned through one, yet so much more so shall those who receive an abundance of grace, both of the gift and of justice, reign in life through the one Jesus Christ.
Therefore, just as through the offense of one, all men fell under condemnation, so also through the justice of one, all men fall under justification unto life.
For, just as through the disobedience of one man, many were established as sinners, so also through the obedience of one man, many shall be established as just.
Now the law entered in such a way that offenses would abound. But where offenses were abundant, grace was superabundant.
So then, just as sin has reigned unto death, so also may grace reign through justice unto eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord.