With her freedom, Christ hath made you, free. Stand fast, therefore, and do not, again, with a yoke of servitude, be held fast!
See! I, Paul, say unto you—if ye be getting circumcised, Christ will profit you, nothing.
Yea, I bear solemn witness again, unto every man getting circumcised,—that he is, a debtor, to do, the whole law.
Ye have been set aside from Christ, ye who, by law, are to be declared righteous,—out of his favour, ye have fallen;
For, we, in Spirit, by faith, for a hope of righteousness, are ardently waiting,—
For, in Christ [Jesus], neither, circumcision, availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith, through love, energising.
Ye were running well:—who hath hindered you, that, by truth, ye are not to be persuaded?
The persuasion, [is] not of him that calleth you:—
A little leaven, leaveneth, the whole lump.
I, am persuaded regarding you, in the Lord—that, for nothing else, ye will have any regard; but, he that is troubling you, shall bear the sentence,—whosoever he may be.
I, however, brethren—if, circumcision, I yet proclaim, why am I yet persecuted? After all, the stumbling-block of the cross hath been set aside.
Oh! that they would even leave off in dismay, who are unsettling you!
For, ye, on a footing of freedom, were called, brethren,—only, [turn] not your freedom into an occasion to the flesh, but, by means of your love, be serving one another;
For, the whole law, in one word, is summed up—[namely] in this,—Thou shall love thy neighbour as thyself.
If, however, one another, ye bite and devour, take heed lest, by one another, ye be consumed!
I say, moreover—by Spirit, be walking, and, fleshly coveting, ye will in nowise fulfil;
For, the flesh, coveted against the Spirit, but, the Spirit, against the flesh,—for, these, unto one another, are opposed, lest, whatsoever things ye chance to desire, these, ye should be doing!
And, if, by Spirit, ye are being led, ye are not under law.
Manifest, however, are the works of the flesh, which, indeed, are—fornication, impurity, wantonness,
idolatry, enchantment, enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of wrath, factions, divisions, parties,
envyings, drunkenness, revellings;—and such things as these: as to which I forewarn you, even as I have forewarned you,—that, they who such things as these do practise, shall not inherit, God’s kingdom.
But, the fruit of the Spirit, is—love, joy, peace, long-suffering, graciousness, goodness, faithfulness,
meekness, self-control;—against such things as these, there is no law.
And, they who are of Christ Jesus, have crucified, the flesh, with its susceptibilities and covetings.
If we live by Spirit, by Spirit, let us also walk.
Let us not become vain-glorious,—one another, challenging, one another, envying.