And they came over to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gadarenes.
And when He had come out of the boat, immediately a man with unclean spirits met Him out of the tombs,
who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no one could bind him, no, not with chains
because he had often been bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him, and the fetters broken in pieces. Nor could anyone subdue him.
And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones.
And when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshiped Him,
and cried with a loud voice, and said, What is to me and to You, Jesus, son of the Most High God? I adjure You by God not to torment me.
For He said to him, Come out of the man, unclean spirit!
And He asked him, What is your name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many.
And he begged Him very much that He would not send them outside the country.
And a great herd of pigs was feeding near the mountains.
And all the demons begged Him, saying, Send us into the pigs, that we may enter into them.
And immediately Jesus allowed them. And the unclean spirits went out and entered into the pigs. And the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea (they were about two thousand), and were choked in the sea.
And the ones who fed the pigs fled and told it in the city and in the country. And they went out to see what it was that was done.
And they came to Jesus and saw him who had been demon-possessed, and had the legion, sitting and clothed and right-minded, the one who had the legion. And they were afraid.
And those who had seen told them how it happened to the one who had been demon-possessed, and about the pigs.
And they began to beg Him to leave their borders.
And when He had come into the boat, the former demoniac begged Him that he might be with Him.
However Jesus did not allow him, but said to him, Go home to your friends, and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you, and has had mercy on you.
And he departed and began to proclaim in Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him. And all marvelled.
And Jesus having crossed again by boat to the other side, a large crowd collected on Him. And He was near the sea.
And, behold, one of the synagogue rulers came, Jairus by name. And when he saw Him, he fell at His feet.
And he begged Him greatly, saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death. Come, lay Your hands on her, so that she may be healed, and she shall live.
And Jesus went with him. And many people followed Him and thronged Him.
And a certain woman who had had an issue of blood twelve years,
and had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and had not been bettered any, but rather came to worse,
having heard about Jesus, she came in the press behind and touched His garment.
For she said, If I may but touch only His clothes, I will be cured.
And instantly the fountain of her blood dried up. And she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague.
And knowing instantly within Himself that power had gone out of Him, Jesus turned Himself around in the press and said, Who touched My clothes?
And His disciples said to Him, You see the crowd pressing on You, and do You say, Who touched Me?
And He looked around to see her who had done this thing.
But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had been done in her, came and fell down before Him and told Him all the truth.
And He said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace, and be whole from your plague.
While He still spoke, they came from the synagogue ruler's house, saying, Your daughter is dead; why do you still trouble the Teacher?
But hearing the word spoken, Jesus said to the synagogue ruler, Do not be afraid, only believe.
And He allowed no one to follow Him, except Peter and James and John, the brother of James.
And He came to the synagogue ruler's and saw a tumult, and weeping and much wailing.
And going in He said to them, Why do you make a tumult and weep? The girl is not dead, but sleeps.
And they laughed at Him. But when He had put them all out, He took the father and the mother of the child, and those with Him, and went in where the child was lying.
And He took the child's hand and said to her, Talitha koumi; (which interpreted is, Little girl, I say to you, arise!)
And instantly the little girl arose and walked (for she was twelve years old). And they were astonished with a great astonishment.
And He strictly warned them that no one should know this. And He said to give her something to eat.