After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Now in Jerusalem there is a pool by the sheep [gate], which in Hebrew is called, Bethesda, having five porches.
In these lay a great multitude of those who were sick, blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
For an angel went down at a certain time into the pool and troubled the water; whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatever disease he had.
And a certain man was there who had an infirmity thirty-eight years.
When Jesus saw him lying [there] and knew that he had been now a long time [in that case], he said unto him, Dost thou desire to be made whole?
The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man when the water is troubled to put me into the pool, but while I am coming, another steps down before me.
Jesus said unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.
And immediately the man was made whole and took up his bed and walked, and on that day was the sabbath.
The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day; it is not lawful for thee to carry [thy] bed.
He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed and walk.
Then they asked him, Who is the man that said unto thee, Take up thy bed and walk?
And he that was healed did not know who it was; for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in [that] place.
Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole; sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee.
The man departed and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him whole.
And for this reason the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill him: because he had done these things on a sabbath.
But Jesus answered them, My Father works until now, and I work.
Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath but also called God his own Father, making himself equal with God.
Then Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself but what he sees the Father do; for all that he does, this also the Son does together with [him].
For the Father loves the Son and shows him all the things that he does, and he will show him greater works than these that ye may marvel.
For as the Father raises up the dead and gives [them] life; even so the Son gives life unto whom he will.
For the Father judges no man but has committed all judgment unto the Son
that everyone should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that does not honour the Son does not honour the Father who has sent him.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that hears my word and believes him that sent me has eternal life and shall not come into judgment but has passed from death unto life.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour shall come, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live.
For as the Father has life in himself, so has he given to the Son to have life in himself
and has also given him power [and authority] to execute judgment because he is Son of man.
Marvel not at this, for an hour shall come when all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,
and those that have done good shall come forth unto the resurrection of life; but those that have done evil, unto the resurrection of judgment.
I can of my own self do nothing; as I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just because I seek not my own will, but the will of the Father who has sent me.
If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.
There is another that bears witness of me, and I know that the witness which he witnesses of me is true.
Ye sent unto John, and he bore witness unto the truth.
But I receive not testimony from man, but I say these things that ye might be saved.
He was a burning and a shining light, and ye were willing to rejoice for one hour in his light.
But I have greater testimony than [that] of John; for the works which the Father has given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me that the Father has sent me.
And the Father himself, who has sent me, has borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time nor seen his appearance.
And ye do not have his word abiding in you; for whom he has sent, him ye do not believe.
Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life; and they are those who testify of me.
And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.
I [do] not receive glory from men.
But I know you that ye have not the love of God in you.
I have come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not; if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive.
How can ye believe, who take glory one from another, and seek not the glory that [comes] only from God?
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; there is [one] that accuses you, [even] Moses, in whom ye trust.
For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me.
But if ye do not believe his writings, how shall ye believe my words?: