Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is to me indeed not burdensome; but for you it is safe.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the concision.
For we are the circumcision, who worship God in spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh;
though, indeed, I have a ground of confidence in the flesh. If any other thinks he has a ground of confidence in the flesh, I more;
circumcised the eighth day, of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; as it respects law, a Pharisee;
as it respects zeal, persecuting the church; as it respects righteousness which is by law, blameless.
But the things which were gain to me, these I counted loss for Christ.
Yes, verily, I also count all things to be loss, for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them to be refuse, that I may gain Christ,
and be found in him, not having my own righteousness which was by law, but the righteousness which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith,
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, by conforming myself to his death,
if, by any means, I may attain to the resurrection from the dead.
Not that I have already attained, or have already reached the goal; but I am pressing forward, that I may lay hold on that for which I was laid hold on by Christ Jesus.
Brethren, I do not conclude that I have already laid hold:
but one thing I do; forgetting the things which are behind, and reaching forward to those which are before, I press toward the goal, for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
Let us, therefore, as many as are fully enlightened, be of this mind: and if you are of another mind with respect to any thing, God will reveal even this to you.
But as far as we have attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us have the same mind.
Be imitators of me, brethren, and observe those who thus walk as you have us for an example.
For many walk, of whom I often said to you, and now say even weeping, that they are enemies of the cross of the Christ,
whose end is destruction, whose god is their appetite, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things.
But our citizenship is in heaven, whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who will transform our humbled body, and make it like his glorious body, according to that power by which he is able to subdue all things to himself.