A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches; and loving favor rather than silver or gold.
The rich and poor meet together; the LORD is the maker of them all.
A prudent one foresees the evil and hides himself, but the simple pass on and are punished.
By humility and the fear of the LORD are riches and honor and life.
Thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse; he who keeps his soul shall be far from them.
Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it.
The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.
He who sows iniquity shall reap vanity; and the rod of his anger shall fail.
He who has a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he gives of his bread to the poor.
Cast out the scorner, and fighting shall go out; yes, quarrels and shame shall cease.
He who loves pureness of heart, grace is on his lips; the king shall be his friend.
The eyes of the LORD keep knowledge, and He overthrows the words of the transgressor.
The lazy one says, There is a lion outside; I shall be killed in the streets.
The mouth of strange women is a deep pit; those despised by the LORD shall fall there.
Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.
He who crushes the poor to multiply for himself, and he who gives to the rich, only to come to poverty.
Bow down your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your heart to My knowledge.
For it is a pleasant thing if you keep them within you; they shall all be fitted in your lips,
so that your trust may be in the LORD, I have made known to you this day, even to you.
Have I not written to you excellent things in counsels and knowledge,
that I might make you know the sureness of the words of truth; to return the words of truth to those who send to you?
Do not rob the poor, because he is poor; nor press down the afflicted in the gate;
for the LORD will plead their cause, and strip the soul of those who plunder them.
Make no friendship with an angry man; and you shall not go up with a man of fury,
lest you learn his ways and get a snare to your soul.
Be not one of those who strike hands, of those who are sureties for debts.
If you have nothing to pay, why should he take away your bed from under you?
Do not remove the old landmark which your fathers have set.
Do you see a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before unknown men.