BEING justified therefore by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ:
by whom also we have had an introduction through faith into this grace in which we have stood fast, and are rejoicing in hope of the glory of God.
And not only so, but we glory also in tribulations: knowing that tribulation produceth patience;
and patience, proof; and proof, hope;
and hope doth not make us ashamed; because the love of God is poured out into our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given to us.
For even then when we were without strength, Christ died in due time for the ungodly.
For scarcely for a righteous person will any one die: though for a good man perhaps some one might even dare to die.
But God commendeth his own love towards us, that, though we were yet sinners, Christ died in our stead.
Therefore much more, being justified already by his blood, shall we be saved by him from wrath.
For if, being enemies, we have been reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
And not so only, but we exult in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom already we have received reconciliation.
Therefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and by sin death; even so death passed into all men through him, in whom all have sinned.
For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed if there be no law.
But death reigned from Adam unto Moses, even over those who have not sinned after the similitude of the transgression of Adam, who is a type of him that was to come.
But not as the transgression, so also is the gift. For if by the transgression of one the many became dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is in that one man, Christ Jesus, hath abounded unto many.
And the gift is not as for one who sinned: for the judgment indeed came by one to condemnation, but the free gift leads to justification from many offences.
For if by the offence of one, death reigned by that one; much more they who receive the abundance of grace, and of the gift of righteousness, shall reign in life by one, Christ Jesus.
Well then, as by the offence of one, judgment issued against all men unto condemnation; so also by the righteousness of one, the gift came to all men for justification unto life.
For as by the disobedience of one man the many were constituted sinners; so also by the obedience of one shall the many be constituted righteous.
But the law was introduced, that the offence might be more abundant. But where sin had abounded, there hath grace abounded more exceedingly:
that as sin had reigned by death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto life eternal by Jesus Christ our Lord.