And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto all the congregation of the sons of Israel and say unto them, Ye shall be holy, for I the LORD your God [am] holy.
Ye shall fear, every man his mother and his father and keep my sabbaths. I AM your God.
Do not return unto idols nor make to yourselves molten gods. I AM your God.
And when ye offer a sacrifice of peace unto the LORD, ye shall offer it of your own free will.
It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it and on the next day, and any remaining until the third day shall be burnt in the fire.
And if it is eaten at all on the third day, it [is] abominable; it shall not be accepted;
and whoever eats it shall bear his iniquity because he has profaned the holiness of the LORD, and that person shall be cut off from among his people.
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not completely reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest.
And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather the fallen grapes of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and the stranger. I AM your God.
Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to another.
And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, neither shalt thou defile the name of thy God. I [am] the LORD.
Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbour, neither rob [him]. Do not detain [the wages of] the work of the hired man in thy house until the morning.
Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind, but shalt fear thy God. I [am] the LORD.
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, neither pleasing the poor, nor favoring the mighty; [but] in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbour.
Thou shalt not travel about [as] a talebearer among thy people; neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbour. I [am] the LORD.
Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart; thou shalt rebuke thy neighbour in sincerity, that thou not bear sin for him.
Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the sons of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. I [am] the LORD.
Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy animal join [with a diverse kind] for mixtures; thou shalt not sow thy field with mixture, neither shalt thou wear garments of a mixture of different things.
And when a man lies carnally with a woman that is a bondmaid, betrothed to a husband and has not been completely ransomed nor been given her freedom, [both] shall be scourged; they shall not be put to death because [she] is not free.
And he shall bring [in expiation] for his guilt unto the LORD, unto the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, a ram for [expiation of] guilt.
And the priest shall reconcile him with the ram of the guilt before the LORD for his sin which he has committed, and the sin which he has committed shall be forgiven him.
And when ye have come into the land and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall circumcise the foreskin of the fruit; three years it shall be uncircumcised unto you; it shall not be eaten of.
But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holiness of rejoicing unto the LORD.
And in the fifth year ye shall eat of the fruit thereof that it may yield unto you the increase thereof. I AM your God.
Ye shall not eat [any thing] with blood. Ye shall not be fortunetellers, nor diviners.
Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard.
Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you. I [am] the LORD.
Do not contaminate thy daughter, causing her to commit fornication, lest the land be prostituted, and the land become full of wickedness.
Ye shall keep my sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I [am] the LORD.
Return not unto spiritists, neither seek after diviners, to be defiled by them. I AM your God.
Thou shalt rise up before grey hair and honour the face of the elder and fear thy God. I [am] the LORD.
And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not oppress him.
[But] the stranger that dwells with you shall be as the natural of yourselves, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. I AM your God.
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measurement [of land], in weight, or in other measure.
Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin shall ye have. I AM your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
Keep, therefore, all my statutes and all my rights and do them. I [am] the LORD.: