And on the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there.
And both Jesus and his disciples were invited to the marriage.
And the wine having failed, the mother of Jesus said to him: They have no wine.
Jesus said to her: Woman, what have I to do with you? my hour has not yet come.
His mother said to the servants: Whatever he says to you, do.
Now, according to the Jewish custom of purifying, six water-pots of stone had been set there, containing each two or three baths.
Jesus said to them: Fill the water-pots with water. And they filled them to the brim.
And he said to them: Draw out now, and carry it to the governor of the feast. And they carried it.
When the governor of the feast had tasted the water that had been made wine, (and he knew not whence it was, but the servants that had drawn the water knew,) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, and said to him:
Every man sets out the good wine first, and when they have drunk freely, then that which is inferior; but you have kept the good wino till now.
This beginning of signs Jesus made in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
After this he went down to Capernaum, he and his mother and his brothers and his disciples. And they continued there not many days.
And the passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
And he found in the temple those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves, and the money-changers sitting.
And when he had made a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple, the sheep also, and the oxen, and he poured out the money of the money-changers, and overthrew their tables;
and said to those who sold doves: Take these things hence; make not my Father’s house a house of merchandise.
And his disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for thy house has eaten me up.
Then answered the Jews and said to him: What sign do you show us, seeing that you do these things?
Jesus answered and said to them: Destroy this temple, and I will raise it up in three days.
Then the Jews said to him: Forty and six years was this temple in building, and will you rebuild it in three days?
But he spoke of the temple of his body.
When, therefore, he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this. And they believed the scripture, and the word that Jesus had spoken.
And while he was in Jerusalem, during the feast of passover, many believed on his name, because they saw the signs that he did.
But Jesus did not trust himself to them, because he knew all men,
and had no need that any one should testify of man, for he himself knew what was in man.