And this is the thing that you shall do to them, to sanctify them to minister to Me in the priest's office. Take one bull, the son of the herd, and two rams without blemish,
and unleavened bread, and cakes unleavened mixed with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil. You shall make them of wheat flour.
And you shall put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bull and the two rams.
And you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall wash them with water.
And you shall take the garments, and clothe Aaron with the tunic, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breast-pocket, and bind it to him with the band of the ephod.
And you shall put the miter upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the miter.
Then you shall take the anointing oil, and pour on his head, and anoint him.
And you shall bring his sons and clothe them with tunics.
And you shall gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and bind turbans on them. And the priest's office shall be theirs for an everlasting statute. And you shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.
And you shall cause a bull to be brought before the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the bull.
And you shall kill the bull before the LORD, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And you shall take of the blood of the bull, and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger, and pour all the blood beside the bottom of the altar.
And you shall take all the fat that covers the inward parts, and the lobe on the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat on them, and burn them upon the altar.
But the flesh of the bull, and its skin, and its dung, you shall burn with fire outside the camp. It is a sin offering.
And you shall also take one ram. And Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.
And you shall kill the ram, and you shall take its blood and sprinkle all round upon the altar.
And you shall cut the ram in pieces, and you shall wash its inward parts and its legs, and put them with its pieces and with its head.
And you shall burn the whole ram upon the altar. It is a burnt offering to the LORD. It is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to the LORD.
And you shall take the other ram. And Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.
Then you shall kill the ram, and take of its blood, and put it upon the tip of the ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar all around.
And you shall take of the blood on the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron, and on his garments, and on his sons, and on the garments of his sons with him. And he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.
Also you shall take from the ram the fat and the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inward parts, and the lobe on the liver, and the two kidneys and the fat on them, and the right shoulder, for it is a ram of consecration;
and one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the LORD.
And you shall put all in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons, and shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.
And you shall take them from their hands, and burn them upon the altar for a burnt offering, for a sweet savor before the LORD. It is an offering made by fire to the LORD.
And you shall take the breast of the ram of Aaron's consecration and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD. And it shall be your portion.
And you shall sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the thigh of the heave offering, which is waved, and which is lifted from the ram of the consecration, from what is Aaron's, and from what is for his sons.
And it shall be Aaron's and his sons' by a statute forever from the sons of Israel. For it is a heave offering. And it shall be a heave offering from the sons of Israel of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, even their heave offering to the LORD.
And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, to be anointed in them and consecrated in them.
The one of his sons that is priest in his place shall put them on seven days, when he comes into the tabernacle of the congregation to minister in the holy place.
And you shall take the ram of the consecration, and boil its flesh in the holy place.
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And they shall eat those things with which the atonement was made, to consecrate and to sanctify them. But a stranger shall not eat because they are holy.
And if any of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread, remains until the morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire. It shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
And so you shall do to Aaron and to his sons according to all things which I have commanded you. You shall consecrate them seven days.
And you shall offer every day a bull, a sin offering for atonement. And you shall cleanse the altar when you have made an atonement for it, and you shall anoint it to sanctify it.
You shall make an atonement for the altar seven days, and sanctify it. And it shall be a most holy altar. Whatever touches the altar shall be holy.
And this is what you shall offer upon the altar: two lambs of the first year day by day forever.
The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at evening.
And with the one lamb a tenth part of flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil, and the fourth part of a hin of wine, a drink offering.
And you shall offer the other lamb at evening; you shall do to it according to the meal offering of the morning, and according to its drink offering, for a sweet smell, an offering made by fire to the LORD.
This shall be a burnt offering forever throughout your generations, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD, where I will meet you, to speak there to you.
And there I will meet with the sons of Israel, and Israel shall be sanctified by My glory.
And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar. I will also sanctify both Aaron and his sons to minister to Me in the priest's office.
And I will dwell among the sons of Israel, and will be their God.
And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt so that I may dwell among them. I am the LORD their God.