And Balaam saw that it pleased Jehovah to bless Israel, and he did not go, as at other times to seek spells. And he set his face toward the wilderness.
And Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel camping, by its tribes. And the Spirit of God was on him.
And he took up his parable and said, The saying of Balaam the son of Beor, and the saying of the man whose eyes have been opened;
the saying of him who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, fallen down, yet with open eyes:
How good are your tents, O Jacob, your dwellings, O Israel!
They are spread out like valleys, like gardens by a river; and Jehovah has planted aloes, as cedars beside the water.
He makes water flow from his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters; his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom exalted.
God who has brought him out of Egypt is for him like the lofty horns of the wild ox; he shall eat up the nations that are his foes, and shall break their bones in pieces, and shall pierce them through with his arrows.
He has crouched; he has lain down like a lion, and like a lioness; who shall rouse him up? Blessed is everyone that blesses you, and cursed is everyone that curses you.
And Balak's anger glowed against Balaam, and he struck his palms together. And Balak said to Balaam, I called you to curse my enemies; and, behold, you have altogether blessed them these three times.
And now, flee to your place. I thought to honor you with great honor, but, behold, Jehovah has kept you back from honor.
And Balaam said to Balak, Did I not speak to your messengers that you sent to me, saying,
If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the mouth of Jehovah, to do good or bad of my own heart. What Jehovah speaks, that I will speak.
And now, behold, I go to my people. Come, and I will counsel you what this people shall do to your people in the latter days.
And he took up his parable and said, The saying of Balaam the son of Beor, and the saying of the man whose eyes are opened;
the saying of him who hears the words of God, and knows the knowledge of the Most High, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, yet with open eyes:
I shall see him, but not now; I shall behold him, but not near. A star shall come forth out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel and shall dash the corners of Moab, and break down all the sons of tumult.
And Edom shall be a possession; and Seir shall be a possession, for his foes; but Israel shall do mightily.
And one out of Jacob shall rule, and will destroy the survivors from Ar.
And he looked upon Amalek, and took up his parable and said, Amalek was the first of the nations, but his latter end is to destruction forever.
And he looked upon the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said, Your dwellingplace may be enduring, and your nest may be set in a rock.
But the Kenites shall be consumed, until Assyria shall carry you away.
And he took up his parable and said, Alas! Who shall live when God puts out?
And ships shall come from the coast of Cyprus, and they shall humble Assyria, and they shall humble Eber, and he also shall come to destruction forever.
And Balaam rose up and left, and returned to his place; and Balak also went on his way.