In those days, there being, again a large multitude, and they not having any thing to eat, calling near the disciples, he saith unto them—
I am moved with compassion towards the multitude, because, already three days, abide they with me, and they have nothing to eat;
and, if dismiss them fasting unto their home, they will be exhausted in the way,—and, certain of them, are, from afar.
And his disciples answered him—Whence shall any one be able, here, to fill, these, with bread, in a desert?
And he was questioning them—How many loaves have ye? and they said—Seven.
And he sendeth word to the multitude, to fall back upon the ground. And, taking the seven loaves, giving thanks, he brake, and was giving unto his disciples, that they might be setting before them; and they set before the multitude.
And they had a few small fishes; and, blessing them, he bade them set, these also, before them.
And they did eat, and were filled, and took up remainders of broken pieces, seven hampers.
Now they were about four thousand; and he dismissed them.
And, straightway, entering into the boat with his disciples, he came into the parts of Dalmanutha;
and forth came the Pharisees, and began discussing with him, seeking of him, a sign from the heaven, testing him.
And, deeply sighing in his spirit, he saith—Why, doth this generation seek, a sign? Verily, I say—there shall, not be given, to this generation, a sign.
And leaving them, again, embarking, he departed unto the other side.
And they forgot to take loaves, and, save one loaf, they had nothing with them in the boat.
And he began charging them, saying—Mind! beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod!
And they began deliberating one with another, because they had no loaves.
And, taking note, he saith unto them—Why do ye deliberate, because ye have no, loaves? Not yet perceive ye, neither understand,—keep ye your hearts, hardened?
Eyes having, see ye not? and ears having, hear ye not? and remember ye not
when, the five loaves, I brake unto the five thousand, how many baskets, full of broken pieces, ye took up? They say unto him—Twelve,—
When the seven, unto the four thousand, how many hampers, full measure, of broken pieces, ye took up? And they say unto him—Seven. And he was saying unto them—
Not yet, do ye understand?
And they come into Bethsaida. And they bring unto him one blind, and beseech him that him, he would touch.
And, laying hold of the hand of the blind man, he brought him forth outside the village, and, spitting into his eyes, laying his hands upon him, he was asking him—Anything, seest thou?
and, looking up, he was saying—I see men, because, like trees, I behold them walking
Then again, put he his hands upon his eyes, and he saw clearly, and was restored, and was seeing distinctly, in broad splendour, all things together.
And he sent him away unto his house, saying—Not even into the village, mayest thou enter.
And forth went Jesus and his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea of Philip. And, in the way, he was questioning his disciples, saying unto them—Who, are men saying that I am?
And they answered him, saying—John the Immerser, and, others, Elijah,—and, others, One of the prophets.
And, he, went on to question them—But, who, say, ye, that I am? Peter, answering, saith unto him—Thou, art, the Christ.
And he straitly charged them, that, no one, they should tell concerning him.
And he began to be teaching them—The Son of Man, must needs suffer many things, and be rejected by the Elders and the High-priests and the Scribes,—and be slain; and, after three days, arise.
And, openly, was he speaking the word. And Peter, taking him aside, began to rebuke him.
But, he, turning round and looking upon his disciples, rebuked Peter, and saith—Withdraw behind me, Satan! because thou art not regarding the things, of God, but the things, of men.
And, calling near the multitude with his disciples, he said unto them—If anyone willeth, after me, to come, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and be following me.
For, whosoever willeth, his own life, to save, shall lose it, but, whosoever shall lose his life for the sake [of me and] of the glad-message, shall save it;
For, what doth it profit a man, to gain the whole world, and be made to forfeit his life?
For what can a man, give, in exchange for his life?
For, whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man also, will be ashamed, of him, whensoever he shall come, in the glory of his Father, with the holy messengers.