DARE any of you, having a matter of controversy with another, sue for judgment before the unjust, and not before the saints?
Know ye not that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to be judges in the smallest matters?
Know ye not that we shall judge angels, much more things pertaining to this life?
If then ye have disputes about the things of this life, do you seat those on the bench who are least esteemed in the church?
I speak to you to shame you. Is it so, that there is not among you a wise man? Not so much as one who is able to judge between one brother and another?
But brother goes to law with brother, and this before the unbelievers.
Now verily therefore there is altogether a fault among you, because ye have law-suits one with another. Why do ye not rather submit to the wrong? Why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?
But ye do wrong and defraud, and that the brethren.
Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived; neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor sodomites,
nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
Yet such were some of you: but ye have been washed, but ye have been sanctified, but ye have been justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the spirit of our God.
All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient; all things are lawful for me, but I will not put myself under the power of any.
Meats are for the belly, and the belly for meats; but God will destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for whoredom, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will raise us up by his own power.
Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Taking then the members of Christ, shall I make them members of an harlot? God forbid.
Do you not know that he that is joined to an harlot is one body with her? For they two, saith he, shall be “one flesh.”
But he that is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
Flee whoredom. Every other sin which a man may commit is without the body; but he who committeth whoredom sinneth against his own body.
Do ye not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have from God, and ye are not your own?
For ye have been bought with a price: glorify then God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God’s.