So Iob proceeded and continued his parable, saying,
Oh that I were as in times past, when God preserued me!
When his light shined vpon mine head: and when by his light I walked thorowe the darkenesse,
As I was in the dayes of my youth: when Gods prouidence was vpon my tabernacle:
When the almightie was yet with me, and my children round about me.
When I washed my pathes with butter, and when the rocke powred me out riuers of oyle:
When I went out to the gate, euen to the iudgement seat, and when I caused them to prepare my seate in the streete.
The yong men saw me, and hid themselues, and the aged arose, and stood vp.
The princes stayed talke, and layde their hand on their mouth.
The voyce of princes was hidde, and their tongue cleaued to the roofe of their mouth.
And when the eare heard me, it blessed me: and when the eye sawe me, it gaue witnesse to me.
For I deliuered the poore that cryed, and the fatherlesse, and him that had none to helpe him.
The blessing of him that was ready to perish, came vpon me, and I caused the widowes heart to reioyce.
I put on iustice, and it couered me: my iudgement was as a robe, and a crowne.
I was the eyes to the blinde, and I was the feete to the lame.
I was a father vnto the poore, and when I knewe not the cause, I sought it out diligently.
I brake also the chawes of the vnrighteous man, and pluckt the praye out of his teeth.
Then I sayde, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiplie my dayes as the sand.
For my roote is spread out by the water, and the dewe shall lye vpon my branche.
My glory shall renue towarde me, and my bowe shall be restored in mine hand.
Vnto me men gaue eare, and wayted, and helde their tongue at my counsell.
After my wordes they replied not, and my talke dropped vpon them.
And they wayted for me, as for the raine, and they opened their mouth as for the latter rayne.
If I laughed on them, they beleeued it not: neither did they cause the light of my countenance to fall.
I appoynted out their way, and did sit as chiefe, and dwelt as a King in the army, and like him that comforteth the mourners.