NOW after the eve of the sabbath, as the light was dawning, towards the first day of the week, Mary Magdalen had come, and the other Mary, to view the sepulchre.
And, lo! there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord descending from heaven, came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it.
His aspect was as lightning, and his raiment white as snow.
And for fear of him the guards shook, and became as dead men.
Then the angel addressing them, said to the women, Fear not ye; for I know that ye are seeking Jesus who was crucified.
He is not here: he is risen, as he said. Come hither, behold the place where the Lord lay.
And go quickly, tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead: and, lo! he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him, as he said unto you.
And they went out quickly from the sepulchre with fear, and great joy; and ran to carry the tidings to his disciples.
And as they were going to tell the disciples, then behold Jesus met them saying, Hail! And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him.
Then saith Jesus to them, Be not affrighted: go, tell my disciples that they go into Galilee, there shall they see me.
And as they were going, some of the guards who were come into the city, had told the chief priests all things which had happened.
And being assembled with the elders, and having held a council, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,
saying, Report, that his disciples coming by night stole him away, while you were asleep.
And if this comes to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him, and preserve you harmless.
So they took the money, and did as they were instructed. And this account is circulated among the Jews to this day.
Then the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mountain, where Jesus had ordered them.
And when they saw him, they worshipped him. Still some doubted.
Then Jesus approaching, spake to them, saying, All power is given me in heaven and upon earth.
Go therefore, make disciples among all nations, baptising them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:
teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo! I am with you at all times even to the end of the world. Amen. \p