And once again I lifted mine eyes, and looked, and lo! four chariots, coming forward from between two mountains,—now, the mountains, were mountains of copper.
In the first chariot, were red horses,—and, in the second chariot, black horses;
and, in the third chariot, white horses,—and, in the fourth chariot, horses spotted, deep red.
Then began I, and said, unto the messenger who was speaking with me,—What are these, my lord?
And the messenger answered, and said unto me,—These, are the four winds of the heavens, coming forward after each hath presented itself near the Lord of all the earth.
They in whose chariot are the black horses, are going forth into the land of the North, and, the white, have gone forth after them,—and, the spotted, have gone forth into the land of the South;
and, the deep red, have come forward and sought to go their way, that they might journey to and fro in the land, so he said, Go your way, journey to and fro in the land,—and they journeyed to and fro in the land.
Then made he outcry beside me, and spake unto me, saying,—See, these who are going forth into the land of the North, have settled my spirit in the land of the North.
Then came the word of Yahweh unto me, saying:
Take of them of the exile, of Heldai, and of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah,—then shalt, thou thyself, enter, on that day, yea thou shalt enter the house of Josiah son of Zephaniah, [with them] who have come in out of Babylon;
yea thou shalt take silver and gold, and make a crown,—and set [it] upon the head of Jehoshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest;
then shalt thou speak unto him, saying, Thus, speaketh Yahweh of hosts, saying,—Lo! a man! Bud, is his name, and, out of his own place, shall he bud forth, and shall build the temple of Yahweh;
Yea, he, shall build the temple of Yahweh, and, he, shall bear the honour, and shall sit and rule upon his throne,—and shall become a priest upon his throne, and, the counsel of peace, shall be between the two of them.
But, the crown, shall belong to Heldai and to Tobiah and to Jedaiah, and to Hen son of Zephaniah,—for a memorial in the temple of Yahweh.
And, they who are afar off, shall come in and shall build at the temple of Yahweh, so shall yea know that, Yahweh of hosts, hath sent me unto you,—and it shall come to pass if ye will, indeed hearken, unto the voice of Yahweh your God.