So says the LORD to the sons of Ammon: Has Israel no sons? Or has he no heir? Why does their king inherit Gad, and his people dwell in his cities?
So, behold, the days come, says the LORD, that I will cause a shout of war to be heard in Rabbah of the sons of Ammon. And it shall be a heap of ruins, and her daughter-villages shall be burned with fire. Then Israel shall inherit his inheritance, says the LORD.
Wail, O Heshbon; Ai is spoiled! Cry, daughters of Rabbah; clothe yourselves with sackcloth, mourn, and run to and fro by the hedges! For their king shall go into exile; his priests and his rulers together.
Why do you glory in your valley, your flowing valleys, O backsliding daughter? she trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shall come to me?
Behold, I will bring a fear on you, says the Lord Jehovah of hosts, from all those who are around you. And you shall be driven out, each man straight forward; and there shall be none to gather up the runaways.
And afterward I will bring again the exile of the sons of Ammon, says the LORD.
So says the LORD of hosts to Edom: Is wisdom no more in Teman? Has counsel perished from the prudent? Has their wisdom vanished?
Flee, turn back, dwell deep, O people of Dedan. For I will bring the calamity of Esau on him in the time that I will visit him.
If the gatherers of grapes come to you, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? If thieves come by night, they will destroy until they have enough.
But I have made Esau bare; I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself. His seed is ravaged, and his brothers, and his neighbors, and he is gone.
Leave your orphans; I will keep them alive; and let your widows trust in Me.
For so says the LORD: Behold, those whose judgment was not to drink of the cup have surely drunk. And are you to be entirely acquitted? You shall not be acquitted, but you shall surely drink.
For I have sworn by Myself, says the LORD, that Bozrah shall become a ruin, a reproach, a waste, and a curse. And all its cities shall be wastes forever.
I have heard a message from the LORD, and a herald is sent to the nations, saying, Gather together and come against her, and rise up to the battle.
For lo, I will make you small among the nations, despised among men.
Your fearfulness has deceived you, and the pride of your heart, O you who dwell in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the hill. Though you should make your nest as high as the eagle, I will bring you down from there, says the LORD.
Also Edom shall be a ruin. Everyone who goes by it shall be amazed and shall hiss at all its plagues.
As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and its neighbor, says the LORD, no man shall remain there, nor shall a son of man live in it.
Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan against the home of the strong. But I will suddenly make him run away from her. And who is a chosen one I may appoint over it? For who is like Me? And who will summon Me? And who is that shepherd who will stand before Me?
So then hear the counsel of the LORD which He has taken against Edom, and His purposes which He has purposed against the people of Teman: Surely the least of the flock shall drag them away. Surely He shall make their homes a ruin over them.
The earth is shaken at the noise of their fall; when they cried, its noise was heard in the Red Sea.
Behold, he shall come up and fly like the eagle, and spread his wings over Bozrah. And at that day the heart of the mighty men of Edom shall be like the heart of a woman in her pangs.
Concerning Damascus: Hamath and Arpad are put to shame, for they have heard bad news. They are melted; anxiety is in the sea; it cannot be quiet.
Damascus has become feeble; she has turned to flee, and trembling has seized her. Anguish and sorrows have taken her like a woman in labor.
How is the city of praise not left, the city of my joy!
So her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be silenced in that day, says the LORD of hosts.
And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall burn up the palaces of Ben-hadad.
So says the LORD concerning Kedar, and concerning the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon shall strike: Arise, go up to Kedar, and strip the men of the east.
They shall take away their tents and their flocks. They shall take their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels to themselves. And they shall cry to them, Fear is on every side.
Flee, go far away, go deep to dwell; O people of Hazor, says the LORD; for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has taken counsel against you, and has plotted a plan against you.
Arise, go up to the nation that is at ease, who dwells securely, says the LORD, which has neither gates nor bars, which dwells alone.
And their camels shall be a prize, and the multitude of their cattle a prey. And I will scatter them to all winds, those who cut the corners. And I will bring their calamity from all sides of it, says the LORD.
And Hazor shall be a dwelling for jackals and a ruin forever. No man shall live there, nor any son of man dwell in it.
The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet against Elam in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,
So says the LORD of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.
And I will bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven on Elam, and will scatter them toward all these winds. And there shall be no nation where the outcasts of Elam shall not come.
For I will cause Elam to be afraid before their enemies and before those who seek their life. And I will bring evil on them, even My fierce anger, says the LORD. And I will send the sword after them until I have destroyed them;
and I will set My throne in Elam, and will destroy the king and the rulers from there, says the LORD.
But it shall be in the latter days, I will bring again the exile of Elam, says the LORD.