Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, You are very great; You have put on honor and majesty,
covering Yourself with light as with a robe; and stretching out the heavens like a curtain;
He lays the beams of His upper rooms in the waters. He sets the clouds as His chariots; He walks on the wings of the wind;
He makes His angels spirits, His ministers a flaming fire.
He laid the earth on its foundations; it shall not be shaken forever.
You covered the deep as with a robe; the waters stand above the mountains.
At Your rebuke they flee; at the voice of Your thunder they hurry away.
They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys to the place which You have founded for them.
You have set a bound that they may not pass over, so that they do not turn again to cover the earth.
He sends the springs into the valleys; they flow between the hills.
They give drink to every beast of the field; the wild asses break their thirst.
By them the birds of the heavens will have their place of rest; they sing among the branches.
He waters the hills from His upper rooms; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of Your works.
He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and plants for the service of man, to bring forth food out of the earth,
and wine cheers the heart of man, and oil makes his face shine, and bread sustains the heart of man.
The trees of the LORD are full, the cedars of Lebanon which He has planted;
where the birds make their nests; the fir trees are the house of the stork.
The high hills are for the wild goats, and the rocks are a refuge for the badgers.
He appointed the moon for seasons; the sun knows its going down.
You make darkness, and it is night, in which all the beasts of the forest creep forth.
The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God.
The sun rises; they are gathered, and go to their dens to lie down.
Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening.
O LORD, how many are Your works! In wisdom You have made them all; the earth is full of Your riches.
This is the great and wide sea, in which are creeping things without number, both small and great animals.
There the ships go; You made this great sea animal to play in it.
These all wait on You, that You may give them their food in due season.
You give to them, they gather; You open Your hand; they are filled with good.
You hide Your face, they are troubled; You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust.
You send forth Your Spirit, they are created; and You renew the face of the earth.
The glory of the LORD shall endure forever; the LORD shall rejoice in His works.
He looks on the earth, and it trembles; He touches the hills, and they smoke.
I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
My thoughts of Him shall be sweet; I will be glad in the LORD.
Let the sinners perish from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless the LORD, O my soul. Praise the LORD!