And Iesus answered and spake vnto them agayne in similitudes sayinge.
The kingdome of heve is lyke vnto a certayne kynge which maryed his sonne
and sent forth his servantes to call them that were byd to the weddinge and they wolde not come.
Ageyne he sent forth other servauntes sayinge: Tell them which are bydden: beholde I have prepared my dynner myne oxen and my fatlinges are kylled and all thinges are redy come vnto the mariage.
But they made light of it and went their wayes: one to his ferme place another about his marchaundise
the remnaunt toke his seruantes and intreated them vngodly and slewe them.
When the kinge hearde that he was wroth and send forth his warryers and distroyed those murtherers and brent vp their cyte.
Then sayde he to his servauutes: the weddinge was prepared. But they which were bydden were not worthy.
Go ye therfore out into ye hyewayes and as many as ye finde byd them to the mariage.
The seruauntes wet out into the hiewayes and gaddered to gedder as many as they coulde fynde both good and bad and ye weddinge was furnysshed with gestes.
Then the kynge came in to viset the gestes and spyed there a ma which had not on a weddinge garment
and sayde vnto him: frende how fortuned it that thou camest in hither and hast not on a weddyng garment? And he was eve spechlesse.
Then sayde the kynge to his ministers: take and bynde hym hand and fote and caste hym into vtter darcknes there shalbe wepinge and gnasshinge of teth.
For many are called and feawe be chosen.
Then wet the Pharises and toke counsell how they might tagle him in his wordes.
And they sent vnto him their disciples with Herodes servauntes sayinge: Master we knowe yt thou are true and teachest the waye of god trulie nether carest for eny man for thou consydrest not menes estate.
Tell vs therfore: how thynkest thou? Is it lawfull to geve tribute vnto Cesar or not?
Iesus perceaved their wikednes and sayde: Why tempte ye me ye ypocrites?
Let me se ye tribute money. And they toke hym a peny.
And he sayde vnto them: whose is this ymage and superscripcion?
They sayde vnto him: Cesars. Then sayde he vnto them. Geve therfore to Cesar that which is Cesars: and geve vnto god that which is goddes.
When they hearde that they marveled and lefte hym and went there waye.
The same daye the Saduces came to him (which saye that there is no resurrcecion) and axed him
sayinge: Master Moses bade yf a man dye havinge no chyldre that the brother mary his wyfe and reyse vp seed vnto his brother.
Ther were wt vs seven brethre and the fyrste maried and deceased wt oute yssue and lefte his wyfe vnto his brother.
Lykewise the seconde and ye thryd vnto the sevethe.
Laste of all the woman dyed also.
Now in the resurreccion whose wyfe shall she be of the seven? For all had her.
Iesus answered and sayde vnto the: ye are deceaved and vnderstonde not the scriptures nor yet the power of God.
For in the resurreccion they nether mary nor are maryed: but are as the angels of God in heven.
As touchynge the resurreccion of the deed: have ye not redde what is sayde vnto you of God which sayeth:
I am Abrahams God and Ysaacks God and the God of Iacob? God is not the God of the deed: but of the lyvinge.
And when the people hearde that they were astonyed at his doctrine.
When the Pharises had hearde how yt he had put the Saduces to silence they drewe to gedder
and one of them which was a doctoure of lawe axed a question teptinge h m and sayinge:
Master which is ye chefe comaundment in the lawe?
Iesus sayde vnto him: love the Lorde thy God wt all thine herte with all thy soule and with all thy mynde.
This is the fyrst and the chefe comaundement.
And ther is another lyke vnto this. Love thyne neghbour as thy selfe.
In these two commaundemetes hange all the lawe and the Prophetes.
Whyll the Pharises were gaddered togeder Iesus axed
the sayinge: what thinke ye of Christ? Whose sonne is he? They sayde vnto him: the sonne of David.
He sayde vnto the: how then doeth David in spirite call him Lorde sayinge?
The Lorde sayde to my Lorde syt on my right honde: tyll I make thyne enemyes thy fote stole.
Yf David call him Lorde: how is he then his sonne?
And none coulde answere him ageyne one worde: nether dueste eny from that daye forth axe him eny moo questions.