Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Speake to the children of Israel, that they returne and campe before Pi-hahiroth, betweene Migdol and the Sea, ouer against Baal-zephon: about it shall ye campe by the Sea.
For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are tangled in the land: the wildernesse hath shut them in.
And I will harden Pharaohs heart that hee shall follow after you: so I will get mee honour vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his hoste: the Egyptians also shall knowe that I am the Lord: and they did so.
Then it was told the King of Egypt, that the people fled: and the heart of Pharaoh and of his seruants was turned against the people, and they sayde, Why haue we this done, and haue let Israel go out of our seruice?
And he made ready his charets, and tooke his people with him,
And tooke sixe hundreth chosen charets, and all the charets of Egypt, and captaines ouer euery one of them.
(For the Lord had hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he followed after the children of Israel: but the children of Israel went out with an hie hand)
And the Egyptians pursued after them, and all the horses and charets of Pharaoh, and his horsemen and his hoste ouertooke them camping by the Sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before Baal-zephon.
And when Pharaoh drew nie, the children of Israel lift vp their eyes, and beholde, the Egyptians marched after them, and they were sore afrayde: wherefore the children of Israel cried vnto the Lord.
And they sayde vnto Moses, Hast thou brought vs to die in the wildernes, because there were no graues in Egypt? wherefore hast thou serued vs thus, to carie vs out of Egypt?
Did not wee tell thee this thing in Egypt, saying, Let vs be in rest, that we may serue the Egyptians? for it had bene better for vs to serue the Egyptians, then that wee shoulde dye in the wildernesse.
Then Moses sayde to the people, Feare ye not, stand still, and beholde the saluation of the Lord which he will shew to you this day. For the Egyptians, whome ye haue seene this day, ye shall neuer see them againe.
The Lord shall fight for you: therefore hold you your peace.
And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Wherefore cryest thou vnto me? speake vnto the children of Israel that they go forward:
And lift thou vp thy rod, and stretche out thine hand vpon the Sea and deuide it, and let the children of Israel goe on drie ground thorow the middes of the Sea.
And I, beholde, I will harden the heart of the Egyptians, that they may follow them, and I wil get me honour vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his host, vpon his charets, and vpon his horsemen.
Then the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I haue gotten me honour vpon Pharaoh, vpon his charets, and vpon his horsemen.
(And the Angel of God, which went before the hoste of Israel, remoued and went behinde them: also the pillar of the cloude went from before them, and stoode behinde them,
And came betweene the campe of the Egyptians and the campe of Israel: it was both a cloude and darkenes, yet gaue it light by night, so that all the night long the one came not at the other)
And Moses stretched forth his hande vpon the Sea, and the Lord caused the sea to runne backe by a strong East winde all the night, and made the Sea dry land: for the waters were deuided.
Then the children of Israel went through the middes of the Sea vpon the drie ground, and the waters were a wall vnto them on their right hand, and on their left hand.
And the Egyptians pursued and went after them to the middes of the Sea, euen all Pharaohs horses, his charets, and his horsemen.
Nowe in the morning watche, when the Lord looked vnto the hoste of the Egyptians, out of the firie and cloudie pillar, he strooke the host of the Egyptians with feare.
For he tooke off their charet wheeles, and they draue them with much a doe: so that the Egyptians euery one sayd, I wil flee from the face of Israel: for the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians.
Then the Lord sayde to Moses, Stretche thine hand vpon the Sea, that the waters may returne vpon the Egyptians, vpon their charets and vpon their horsemen.
Then Moses stretched forth his hand vpon the Sea, and the Sea returned to his force early in the morning, and the Egyptians fled against it: but the Lord ouerthrew the Egyptians in the mids of the Sea.
So the water returned and couered the charets and the horsemen, euen all the hoste of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them: there remained not one of them.
But the children of Israel walked vpon dry land thorowe the middes of the Sea, and the waters were a wall vnto them on their right hande, and on their left.
Thus the Lord saued Israel the same day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel sawe the Egyptians dead vpon the Sea banke.
And Israel saw the mightie power, which the Lord shewed vpon the Egyptians: so the people feared the Lord, and beleeued the Lord, and his seruant Moses.