And it happened afterward, David struck the Philistines and humbled them. And David took The Bridle of the Metropolis out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he struck Moab, and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground. Even with two lines he measured to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became David's servants, bringing gifts.
David also struck Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his border at the river Euphrates.
And David took from him seventeen hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen. And David hamstrung all the chariot horses but kept enough of them for a hundred chariots.
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to rescue Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians.
And David put troops in Syria of Damascus. And the Syrians became servants to David, bringing gifts. And the LORD preserved David wherever he went.
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
And from Betah, and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took very much bronze.
And Toi king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadadezer.
Then Toi sent Joram his son to king David, to greet him and bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had struck him. For Hadadezer had wars against Toi. And in his hand were silver articles, and golden articles, and bronze articles.
King David also dedicated them to the LORD, with the silver and gold that he had dedicated from all nations which he subdued:
of Syria, and of Moab, and of the sons of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
And David made a name for himself when he returned from striking the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, eighteen thousand men.
And he put garrisons in Edom. He put garrisons throughout all Edom, and all the men of Edom became David's servants. And the LORD preserved David wherever he went.
And David reigned over all Israel. And David did judgment and justice to all his people.
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army. And Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder.
And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests. And Seraiah was the scribe.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over both the Cherethites and the Pelethites. And David's sons were priests.