And we turned and pulled up into the wilderness, the way of the Sea of Reeds, as Jehovah had spoken to me; and we went around the mountain of Seir many days.
And Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
You have gone around this mountain long enough; turn yourselves northward.
And command the people, saying, You are passing over into the border of your brothers, the sons of Esau, who live in Seir, and they shall be afraid of you. And you shall be on guard very much;
you shall not fight against them, for I will not give their land to you, even to a step of a sole of a foot, for I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession.
You shall buy food from them with silver, and you shall eat; and you shall buy water from them with silver, and you shall drink.
For Jehovah your God has blessed you with all the work of your hands; He has known your walking through this great wilderness. Jehovah your God has been with you these forty years; you have lacked nothing.
And we passed on from our brothers, the sons of Esau, those living in Seir, by the way of the Arabah, by Elath, and by Eziongeber, we turned and passed on by the way of the wilderness of Moab.
And Jehovah said to me, Do not besiege Moab, nor stir yourself up against them in battle, for I will not give their land to you for a possession. For I have given Ar as a possession to the sons of Lot.
The Emim lived there in days gone by, a great and plentiful people, and tall as the Anakim;
they are reckoned to be giants, they too, like the Anakim; but the Moabites call them Emim.
And the Horites lived in Seir before; and the sons of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them, and lived in their place, as Israel has done to the land of his possession, which Jehovah has given to them.
Now, rise up and you yourselves pass over the torrent Zered; and we crossed over the torrent Zered.
And the days in which we came from Kadeshbarnea, until we had crossed over the torrent Zered, were thirty eight years, until the end of all the generation, even the men of war were destroyed from the midst of the camp, as Jehovah swore to them.
And the hand of Jehovah was also against them, to destroy them from the midst of the camp, until they were consumed.
And it happened, when all the men of war had finished dying from among the people,
Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
You are passing over the border of Moab today, to Ar,
and you shall draw near, across from the sons of Ammon. You shall not besiege them nor be stirred up against them, for I have not given of the land of the sons of Ammon to you for a possession. For I have given it for a possession to the sons of Lot.
It is reckoned a land of giants, even it; giants formerly lived in it, and the Ammonites call them Zamzummim;
a great and plentiful people, and tall as the Anakim. And Jehovah destroyed them before them, and they expelled them, and lived in their place;
He had done for the sons of Esau, who live in Seir, when He destroyed the Horites from before them and they expelled them, and lived in their place until today.
And the Avvites who lived in villages as far as Azzah, the Caphtorites coming out of Caphtor destroyed them, and lived in their place.
Rise up; pull up and cross over the Arnon River; behold, I have given Sihon the king of Heshbon, the Amorite, and his land into your hand. Begin to possess, and stir yourselves up against him in battle.
Today I will begin to put your dread and your fear on the face of the people under all the heavens, who will hear your fame, and will tremble and writhe because of you.
And I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon the king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,
Let me pass on the highway through your land; I will go on the highway; I will not turn aside to the right or the left;
you shall sell me food for silver, and I shall eat; and you shall give me water for silver, and I will drink. Only, let me pass through on my feet,
as the sons of Esau who live in Seir, and the Moabites who live in Ar, have done to me, until I have crossed over the Jordan, to the land which Jehovah our God is giving to us.
And Sihon the king of Heshbon was not willing to let us pass by him, for Jehovah your God had hardened his spirit, and had emboldened his heart, so as to give him into your hand, as it is this day.
And Jehovah said to me, Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land before you; begin to possess, in order to possess his land.
And Sihon came out to meet us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz.
And Jehovah our God delivered him before us, and we struck him and his sons, and all his people.
And we captured all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed every city, men and women and little ones. We did not leave a remnant.
Only, we plundered the cattle for ourselves, and we took the plunder of the cities.
From Aroer, which is by the edge of the Arnon River, and the city beside the river, even to Gilead, there was not a city which was too high for us. Jehovah our God delivered all before us.
Only, you did not come near to the land of the sons of Ammon, any part of the Jabbok River, and the cities of the hill country, and all which Jehovah our God had forbidden us.