The word which was to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews who were living in the land of Egypt, those living at Migdol, and at Tahpanhes, and at Noph, and in the land of Pathros, saying,
So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel, You have seen all the evil that I have brought on Jerusalem, and on all the cities of Judah. And, behold! This day they are a ruin, and no one lives in them,
because of the evil which they have done, by provoking Me to anger, by going to burn incense, by serving other gods that they did not know, they, you nor your fathers.
However, I sent to you all my servants the prophets, rising early and sending, saying, Oh, do not commit this abominable thing which I hate!
But they did not listen nor bow their ear, to turn from their evil, not to burn incense to other gods.
For this reason My fury and My anger poured out and burned in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem. And they are wasted and deserted as this day.
And now so says Jehovah, the God of Hosts, the God of Israel: Why do you commit great evil against your souls, to cut off from you man and woman, child and suckling, out of Judah, not leaving to yourselves a remnant,
to provoke Me to wrath with the works of your hands, burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, there where you have gone to reside, that I might cut you off, and that you might be a curse and a reproach among all the nations of the earth?
Have you forgotten the evilness of your fathers, and the evilness of the kings of Judah, and the evilness of his wives, and your own evilness, and the evilness of your wives, which they have done in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
They are not crushed to this day, nor have they feared, nor walked in My law, nor in My statutes which I have set before you and before your fathers.
So Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel, says this: Behold, I will set My face against you for evil, and to cut off all Judah.
And I will take the remnant of Judah who have set their faces to go into the land of Egypt, to reside there; and they shall all be consumed and fall in the land of Egypt. They shall be consumed by the sword, and by the famine. They shall die, from the least even to the greatest, by the sword, and by the famine, and they shall be a curse, a horror, and a shame, and a reproach.
For I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, by the sword, by the famine, and by the plague,
so that none of the remnant of Judah which has gone into the land of Egypt, to reside there, will be an escaped one, or a survivor; or return to the land of Judah to which they are lifting up their soul, to return to live there. For not one shall return, except those who escape.
Then all the men who knew that their wives had burned incense to other gods, and all the women who stood by, a great assembly, even all the people who lived in the land of Egypt, in Pathros, answered Jeremiah saying,
As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of Jehovah, we will not listen to you.
But we will certainly do whatever thing goes out of our own mouth, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings to her, as we have done, we and our fathers, our kings, and our rulers, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. And we had plenty of food, and were well, and saw no evil.
But when we stopped burning incense to the queen of heaven, and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked all things , and have been devoured by the sword and by the famine.
And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven and poured out drink offerings to her, did we make her cakes to worship her, and pour out drink offerings to her, without our men?
Then Jeremiah said to all the people; to the men, and to the women, and to all the people who were answering:
The incense that you burned in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, you, and your fathers, your kings, and your rulers, and the people of the land, did not Jehovah remember them? Yea, it came into His heart.
And Jehovah could no longer bear because of the evil of your doings, because of the detestable things you have committed. For this reason your land is a waste, and a horror, and a curse, without inhabitant, as this day.
Because you have burned incense, and because you have sinned against Jehovah, and have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, in His law, or in His statutes; and because you did not walk in His testimonies, therefore this evil has happened to you, as at this day.
Jeremiah also said to all the people, and to all the women, Hear the word of Jehovah, all Judah in the land of Egypt.
So says Jehovah of Hosts, the God of Israel, saying: You and your wives have both spoken with your mouths, and fulfilled with your hands, saying, We will surely fulfill our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings to her. You certainly do perform your vows and certainly make stand your vows.
So hear the word of Jehovah, all Judah who reside in the land of Egypt: Behold, I have sworn by My great name, says Jehovah, that My name shall no more be named in the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, The Lord Jehovah lives.
Behold, I will watch over them for evil, and not for good; and all the men of Judah in the land of Egypt shall be destroyed by the sword, and by the famine, until they come to an end.
And he who escapes the sword shall return out of the land of Egypt to the land of Judah, few in number. And all the remnant of Judah who have gone into the land of Egypt, to reside there, shall know whose word shall stand, theirs or Mine.
And this shall be a sign to you, says Jehovah, that I will punish you in this place, so that you may know that My words shall surely stand against you for evil:
So says Jehovah, Behold, I am giving Pharaoh-hophra, king of Egypt, into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of those who seek his soul, even as I gave Zedekiah, king of Judah, into the hand of Nebu-chadnezzar, the king of Babylon, his enemy that sought his soul.