And going out, Jesus left the temple. And His disciples came to show Him the buildings of the temple.
But Jesus said to them, Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, There will not at all be left one stone on a stone which in no way will not be thrown down.
And as He was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to Him privately, saying, Tell us, when will these things be? And, What is the sign of Your coming and of the end of the age?
And answering, Jesus said to them, See that not any leads you astray.
For many will come in My name, saying, I am the Christ. And they will cause many to be led astray.
But you are going to hear of wars and rumors of wars. See, do not be terrified. For all things must take place, but the end is not yet.
For nation will be raised against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be famines and plagues and earthquakes against many places.
But all these are a beginning of throes.
Then they will deliver you up to affliction, and will kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for My name's sake.
And then many will be offended, and they will deliver up one another and will hate one another.
And many false prophets will be raised and will cause many to err.
And because lawlessness shall have been multiplied, the love of the many will grow cold.
But the one who endures to the end, that one will be kept safe.
And this gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the earth for a testimony to all the nations, and then will come the end.
Then when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (the one reading, let him understand), Dan. 11:31; 12:11
then let those in Judea flee on the mountains;
the one on the housetop, let him not come down to take anything out of his house;
and the one in the field, let him not turn back to take his garment.
But woe to the woman having a child in womb, and to those suckling in those days!
And pray that your flight will not be in winter nor on a sabbath.
For there will be great affliction, such as has not happened from the beginning of the world until now, no, nor ever will be.
And except those days were shortened, not any flesh would be saved. But on account of the elect, those days will be shortened.
Then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ! Or, Here! Do not believe.
For false christs and false prophets will rise up. And they will give great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.
Behold, I tell you beforehand.
Then if they say to you, Behold, He is in the wilderness; do not go out. Behold, He is in the inner rooms; do not believe.
For as the lightning comes forth from the east and shines as far as the west, so also will be the coming of the Son of man.
For wherever the dead body may be, there the eagles will be gathered.
And immediately after the affliction of those days the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give her light, and the stars will fall from the heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
And then the sign of the Son of man will appear in the heavens. And then all the tribes of the land will wail. And they will see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and much glory. Dan. 7:13
And He will send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather His elect from the four winds, from the ends of the heavens to their ends.
But learn the parable of the fig tree: When its branch becomes tender and it puts out leaves, you know that the summer is near;
so also you, when you see all these things, know that it is near at the doors.
Truly I say to you, In no way will this generation pass away until all these things have occurred.
The heaven and the earth will pass away, but My words will never ever pass away.
But as to that day and that hour, no one knows, neither the angels of Heaven, except My Father only.
But as the days of Noah, so also will be the coming of the Son of man.
For as they were in the days before the flood: eating, and drinking, marrying, and giving in marriage, until the day when Noah went into the ark.
And they did not know until the flood came and took all away. So also will be the coming of the Son of man.
At that time two will be out in the field; the one is taken away, and the one is left;
two grinding at the mill; one is taken away, and one is left.
Watch, then, for you do not know in what hour your Lord comes.
But know this, that if the housemaster had known in what watch the thief comes, he would have watched and not have allowed his house to be dug through.
Because of this, you also be ready, for in that hour you think not, the Son of man comes.
Who then is the faithful and wise servant whom his lord has set over his household, to give to them the food in season?
Blessed is that servant whom his lord shall find so doing when he comes.
Truly I say to you, He will set him over all his substance.
But if that wicked servant says in his heart, My lord delays to come,
and begins to beat his fellow servants, and to eat and to drink with the ones drinking,
the lord of that slave will come in a day in which he does not expect and in an hour which he does not know,
and will cut him in two, and will appoint his portion with the hypocrites. There will be weeping and gnashing of the teeth.