Likewise, wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, so that if any do not obey the word, they may also be won without the word by the conduct of the wives,
having witnessed your chaste behavior in the fear of God.
Of whom let not be the adorning of garments, or outward braiding of hair and wearing of gold, or of putting on clothing,
but let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, the meek and quiet spirit, which is of great price in the sight of God.
For so once indeed the holy women hoping in God adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands;
as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord; whose children you became, doing good and fearing no terror.
Likewise, husbands, live together according to knowledge, giving honor to the wife as to the weaker vessel, the female, as truly being co-heirs together of the grace of life, not cutting off your prayers.
And finally, all be of one mind, having compassion on one another, loving the brothers, tenderhearted, friendly.
Never give back evil for evil, or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, giving blessing, knowing that you are called to this so that you might inherit blessing.
For he that wants to love life and to see good days, let him restrain his tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking guile.
Let him turn aside from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it.
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears open to their prayers. But the Lord's face is against those who do evil.
And who is the one who will harm you if you become imitators of the good?
But if you also suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. And do not fear their fear, nor be troubled,
but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to everyone who asks you a reason of the hope in you, with meekness and fear;
having a good conscience, that while they speak against you as evildoers they may be shamed, those falsely accusing your good behavior in Christ.
For it is better, if the will of God wills it, to suffer for well-doing than for evil-doing.
For Christ also once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that He might bring us to God, indeed being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit;
in which also He went and preached to the spirits in prison,
to disobeying ones, when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared (in which a few, that is, eight souls were saved through water);
which figure now also saves us, baptism; not a putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ;
who is at the right hand of God, having gone into Heaven, where the angels and authorities and powers are being subjected to Him.