Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered. Let also those who hate him flee before him.
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
But let the righteous be glad. Let them exult before God. Yea, let them rejoice with gladness.
Sing to God, sing praises to his name. Cast up a highway for him who rides through the deserts. His name is Jehovah, and exult ye before him.
A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.
God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners into prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a parched land.
O God, when thou went forth before thy people, when thou marched through the wilderness (Selah)
the earth trembled, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God, Sinai at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
Thou, O God, sent a plentiful rain. Thou confirmed thine inheritance when it was weary.
Thy congregation dwelt in it. Thou, O God, prepared for the poor from thy goodness.
The Lord gave the word. Great was the company of those who published it.
Kings of armies fled quickly, and she who remained at home divided the spoil.
Though ye lie between two boundaries, it is as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her pinions with yellow gold.
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was as it snows in Zalmon.
A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; a high mountain is the mountain of Bashan.
Why look ye askance, ye high mountains, at the mountain which God has desired for his abode? Yea, Jehovah will dwell in it forever.
The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands upon thousands. The Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the sanctuary.
Thou have ascended on high. Thou have led captivity captive. Thou have received gifts among men, yea, among the rebellious also, that Jehovah God might dwell with them.
Blessed be the Lord, who bears our burden daily, even the God who is our salvation. Selah.
God is to us a God of deliverances, and escape from death belongs to Jehovah the Lord.
But God will smite through the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of him who still goes in his guiltiness.
The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan. I will bring again from the depths of the sea,
that thou may dash thy foot in blood, that the tongue of thy dogs may have its portion from enemies.
They have seen thy goings, O God, even the goings of my God, my King, into the sanctuary.
The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, in the midst of the damsels playing with timbrels.
Bless ye God in the congregations, the lord of the fountain of Israel.
There is little Benjamin their ruler, the rulers of Judah and their council, the rulers of Zebulun, the rulers of Naphtali.
Thy God has commanded thy strength. Strengthen, O God, that which thou have wrought for us.
Because of thy temple at Jerusalem kings shall bring presents to thee.
Rebuke the wild beast of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples, trampling under foot the pieces of silver. He has scattered the peoples that delight in war.
Rulers shall come out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall hasten to stretch out her hands to God.
Sing to God, ye kingdoms of the earth. O sing praises to the Lord (Selah),
to him who rides upon the heaven of heavens, which are of old. Lo, he utters his voice, a mighty voice.
Ascribe ye strength to God. His excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the skies.
O God, awesome out of thy holy places, the God of Israel, he gives strength and power to his people. Blessed be God.