Now, Boaz, went up to the gate, and sat him down there, and lo! the kinsman, passing by, of whom Boaz had spoken, so he said—Turn aside! and sit down here, such a one! And he turned aside, and sat down.
Then fetched he ten men of the elders of the city, and said—Sit ye down here. And they sat down.
Then said he to the kinsman, The parcel of land that was our brother Elimelech’s, is to be disposed of by Naomi, who hath returned out of the country of Moab;
and, I, thought, I would unveil thine ear, saying—Take it over in presence of such as are here seated, and in presence of the elders of my people. If thou wilt act as kinsman, act as kinsman, but, if thou wilt not so act, only tell me—that I may know, for there is none who can set thee aside as kinsman, but, I, am after thee. And he said, I, will act as kinsman.
Then said Boaz, What day thou takest over the land from the hand of Naomi, also, of Ruth the Moabitess, wife of the dead, dost thou take [it], to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance.
Then said the kinsman—I cannot act as kinsman for myself, lest I mar my own inheritance,—do, thou, for thyself act as kinsman in my right, for I cannot so redeem.
Now, this aforetime, [was the way] in Israel, at a redeeming, and at an exchanging, to confirm every word: A man drew off his shoe, and gave it to his neighbour,—yea, this, was the way of taking to witness, in Israel.
So the kinsman said unto Boaz, Take it over for thyself,—and he drew off his shoe.
Then said Boaz to the elders, and all the people—Witnesses, are ye to-day, that I have taken over all that was Elimelech’s, and all that was Chilion’s, and Mahlon’s,—from the hand of Naomi:
Moreover, Ruth the Moabitess, wife of Mahlon, have I taken over, to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off—from among his brethren, and from the gate of his dwelling- place,—Witnesses, are ye to-day!
Then said all the people who were in the gate, and the elders—Witnesses!,—Yahweh grant the woman who is coming into thy house, to be as Rachel, and as Leah, which two of them did build the house of Israel. Do thou bravely, then, in Ephrathah, and proclaim thou a name in Bethlehem,
And let thy house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bare to Judah,—of the seed which—may Yahweh give thee, of this young woman.
So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife, and he went in unto her,—and Yahweh granted her conception, and she bare a son.
Then said the women unto Naomi, Blessed, be Yahweh! who hath not let thee fail of a kinsman to-day,—and may his name, be proclaimed, in Israel;
So shall he become a restorer of thy life, and a nourisher of thine old age,—for, thy daughter-in-law who loveth thee, hath borne him, even, she, who is better to thee than seven sons.
So Naomi took the boy, and laid him in her bosom, and she became his nurse.
And the women, her neighbours, gave him a name, saying, There is born a son to Naomi,—So they called his name Obed, he, was, the father of Jesse, the father of David.
These, then, are the generations of Perez: Perez, begat, Hezron;
And, Hezron, begat, Ram, and, Ram, begat, Amminadab;
And, Amminadab, begat Nahshon, and, Nahshon, begat, Salmon,
And, Salmon, begat, Boaz, and, Boaz, begat, Obed;
And, Obed, begat, Jesse, and, Jesse, begat, David.