And, travelling through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews;
and, according to Paul’s custom, he went in unto them, and, for three sabbaths, reasoned with them from the Scriptures,—
opening up, and setting forth, that it was needful for, the Christ, to suffer, and to arise from among the dead; and [saying], This, is the Christ,—Jesus, whom, I, am declaring unto you.
And, some from among them, were persuaded, and cast in their lot with Paul and Silas; also, of the devout Greeks, a great throng, and, of the chief women, not a few.
But the Jews, being, jealous, and taking unto themselves certain wicked men, of the rabble, and making a riot, were setting the city in an uproar; and, besieging the house of Jason, were seeking to lead them forth unto the populace,—
and, not finding them, they began dragging Jason and certain brethren unto the city-rulers, shouting—They who have thrown the inhabited earth into confusion, the same, hither also, are come,—
unto whom Jason hath given welcome; and, these all, contrary to the decrees of Caesar, are acting,—saying that there is another king, Jesus.
And they troubled the multitude and the city-rulers, when they heard these things;
and, taking security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.
But, the brethren, straightway, during the night, sent away both Paul and Silas unto Beroea, who, indeed, arriving, unto the synagogue of the Jews, went off;
and, these, were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they welcomed the word with all readiness of mind, daily, searching the Scriptures,—whether these things could be so.
Many, therefore, from among them, believed, and, of the Grecian women of the higher class, and of men, not a few.
But, when the Jews from Thessalonica came to know that, in Beroea also, had the word of God been declared by Paul, they came thither also, stirring up and troubling the multitudes.
Howbeit, then, immediately, the brethren sent away, Paul, to be journeying as far as unto the sea; and both Silas and Timothy stayed behind, there.
But, they who were conducting Paul, brought him as far as Athens, and, receiving a commandment unto Silas and Timothy, that with, all possible speed, they would come unto him, they departed.
But, while, in Athens, Paul was expecting them, his spirit within him was being urged on, seeing how the city was given to idols.
So then, he began reasoning in the synagogue with the Jews, and with them who worshipped; and, in the market-place, every day, with them who happened to be at hand.
But, certain both of the Epicurean and of the Stoic philosophers, were encountering him; and some were saying—What might this picker-up-of-scraps wish to be saying? And, others—Of foreign demons, he seemeth to be a declarer: because, of Jesus and the Resurrection, he was announcing the joyful tidings.
And so, laying hold of him, they brought him up, to the Hill of Mars, saying—Can we get to know what this new teaching is, which, by thee, is being spoken.
For, certain foreign things, art thou bringing into our hearing: We are minded to get to know, therefore, what these things please to be!
Now, all Athenians and the sojourning foreigners, unto nothing else, were devoting their leisure, than to be telling or hearing, something newer.
And Paul taking his stand in the midst of the Hill of Mars, said—Ye men of Athens! In every way, how unusually reverent of the demons ye are, I perceive.
For, passing through, and carefully observing your objects of devotion, I found an altar also, in which was inscribed—Unto an Unknown God. What, therefore, not knowing, ye reverence, the same, do, I, declare unto you.
The God that made the world and all things that are therein, the same, being, Lord, of heaven and earth, not in hand-made shrines, doth dwell,
nor, by human hands, is waited upon, as though in want of anything, himself, giving unto all life and breath and all things;
he made also, of one, every nation of men to dwell upon all the face of the earth,—marking out fitting opportunities, and the bounds of their dwelling place,
that they might be seeking God—if, after all, indeed, they might feel after him and find him,—although, in truth, he is already not far from any one of us.
For, in him, we live and move and are: as, even some of your own poets, have said—For, his offspring also, we are.
Being, then, offspring, of God, we ought not to be supposing that, unto gold or silver or stone, graven by art and device of man, the Divine, is like.
The times of ignorance, therefore, overlooking, God, as things now are, is charging all men everywhere to repent,
inasmuch as he hath appointed a day, in which he is about to be judging the habitable earth in righteousness, by a man whom he hath pointed out,—offering faith unto all, by raising him from among the dead?
Now, when they heard of raising the dead, some, indeed, began to mock, while, others, said—We will hear thee, concerning this, even again.
Thus, Paul, came forth out of their midst.
But, certain persons, joining themselves unto him, believed; among whom were even Dionysius the Mars-hill judge, and a woman by name Damaris, and others with them.