I saw My Lord stationed by the altar, and he said—Smite the capital—that the sills, may tremble, Yea break them off on the head of them all, and, the last of them, with the sword, will I slay,—He that fleeth of them, shall not flee away, and he that escapeth of them, shall not make good his escape.
Though they break through into hades, from thence, shall my hand fetch them,—and, though they ascend the heavens, from thence, will I bring them down;
And, though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, from thence, will I search for them and take them,—and, though they conceal themselves from before mine eyes at the bottom of the sea, from thence, will I command the serpent and he shall bite them;
And, though they go into captivity before their enemies, from thence, will I command the sword, and it shall slay them,—So will I set mine eyes upon them for calamity, and not for blessing.
Now, My Lord, Yahweh of hosts, is he—who toucheth the earth, and it melteth, and all that dwell therein, mourn; and it cometh up like the Nile, all of it, and subsideth like the river of Egypt:
Who buildeth, in the heavens, his upper rooms, and, as for his vault, upon the earth, hath he founded it,—who calleth to the waters of the sea, and poureth them out over the face of the land, Yahweh, is his name.
Like the sons of the Ethiopians, are not ye, unto me, O sons of Israel? Demandeth Yahweh: Was it not, Israel, I brought up out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines out of Caphtor, and the Syrians out of Kir?
Lo! the eyes of My Lord, Yahweh, are on the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the ground,—save only that I will not, utterly destroy, the house of Jacob, Declareth Yahweh.
For lo! I am giving command, and will sift, throughout all the nations, the house of Israel,—as grain is sifted in a sieve, yet shall there not fall a kernel, to the earth.
By the sword, shall die all the sinners of my people,—who say, The calamity, shall not overtake and close in before us.
In that day, will I raise up the pavilion of David, that is lying prostrate,—and wall up the breaches of them, and, his ruins, will I raise up, and will build it, as in the days of age-past times:
That they on whom my name hath been called, may take possession, of the residue of Edom and of all the nations, Declareth Yahweh, who executeth this.
Lo! days are coming, Declareth Yahweh, that, the plowman, shall overtake, the reaper, and, he that treadeth out the grapes, him that traileth the seed,—so shall, the mountains, drip sweet wine, and, all the hills, shall melt;
And I will bring back the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall build waste cities, and inhabit [them], and plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof, and lay out gardens, and eat the fruit thereof:
So will I plant them upon their own soil,—and will not uproot them any more from off their own soil, which I have given to them, saith Yahweh thy God.