And Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes of the sons of Israel, saying, This is the thing which Jehovah has commanded.
When a man vows a vow to Jehovah, or swears an oath to bind his soul with a bond, he shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.
Also when a woman vows a vow to Jehovah, and binds herself by a bond, being in her father's house, in her youth,
and her father hears her vow, and her bond with which she has bound her soul, and her father remains silent at her, then all her vows shall stand, and every bond with which she has bound her soul shall stand.
But if her father disallows her in the day that he hears, none of her vows, or of her bonds with which she has bound her soul, shall stand. And Jehovah will forgive her, because her father disallowed her.
And if she is married to a husband, while her vows are upon her, or the rash utterance of her lips, with which she has bound her soul,
and her husband hears it, and remains silent at her in the day that he hears it, then her vows shall stand, and her bonds with which she has bound her soul shall stand.
But if her husband disallows her in the day that he hears it, then he shall make void her vow which is upon her, and the rash utterance of her lips, with which she has bound her soul. And Jehovah will forgive her.
But the vow of a widow, or of her who is divorced, even everything with which she has bound her soul shall stand against her.
And if she vowed in her husband's house, or bound her soul by a bond with an oath,
and her husband heard it, and remained silent at her, and did not disallow her, then all her vows shall stand, and every bond with which she bound her soul shall stand.
But if her husband made them null and void in the day that he heard them, then whatever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand. Her husband has made them void, and Jehovah will forgive her.
Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, her husband may establish it, or her husband may make it void.
But if her husband altogether remains silent at her from day to day, then he establishes all her vows, or all her bonds, which are upon her. He has established them, because he remained silent at her in the day that he heard them.
But if he shall make them null and void after he has heard them, then he shall bear her iniquity.
These are the statutes, which Jehovah commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, between a father and his daughter, being in her youth in her father's house.