And after these things, departing from Athens, Paul came to Corinth.
And finding a certain Jew named Aquila, of Pontus by race, having recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome, he came to them.
And because he was of the same trade, he lived and worked with them; for they were tentmakers by trade.
And he reasoned in the synagogue on every sabbath persuading both Jews and Greeks.
And when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was pressed by the Spirit, earnestly testifying to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ.
But they having resisted, and blaspheming, having shaken his garments, he said to them, Your blood be on your head. I am pure from it ; from now on I will go to the nations.
And moving from there, he went into the house of one named Justus, one worshiping God, whose house was next door to the synagogue.
And Crispus, the synagogue ruler, believed the Lord along with all his house. And hearing, many of the Corinthians believed and were baptized.
And the Lord said to Paul through a vision in the night, Do not fear, but speak, and do not keep silence;
because I am with you, and no one shall set on you to oppress you; because there is much people to Me in this city.
And he remained a year and six months teaching the Word of God among them.
But Gallio being proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rushed against Paul with one passion and led him to the tribunal,
saying, This one persuades men to worship God contrary to the Law.
But Paul being about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If, indeed, then, it was some wrong or wicked criminality, O Jews, according to reason I would endure you.
But if it is a question about a word, and names, and the law according to you, you will see to it yourselves; for I do not wish to be a judge of these things.
And he drove them from the tribunal.
And all the Greeks having seized Sosthenes the ruler of the synagogue, they beat him before the tribunal. And not one of these things mattered to Gallio.
And having remained many days more, having taken leave of the brothers, Paul sailed to Syria, having shaved his head, in Cenchrea, for he had a vow. And Priscilla and Aquila were with him.
And he came to Ephesus, and he left those there. But he going into the synagogue, he reasoned with the Jews.
And they asking him to remain over a longer time with them, he did not agree,
but took leave of them, saying, I must by all means keep the coming feast at Jerusalem; but I will come again to you, God willing. And he sailed from Ephesus.
And landing at Caesarea, having gone up and greeted the church, he went down to Antioch.
And spending some time, he went out, in order passing through the Galatian and Phrygian country, making strong all the disciples.
But a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus, being powerful in the Scriptures.
This one having been taught by mouth in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things about the Lord, having understood only the baptism of John.
And this one began to speak boldly in the synagogue. And hearing him Priscilla and Aquila took him and more accurately expounded the way of God to him.
And he having intended to go through into Achaia, having been encouraged, the brothers wrote to the disciples to welcome him; who, having arrived, much helped those who were believing through grace.
For he powerfully confuted the Jews publicly, proving through the Scriptures Jesus to be the Christ.