And after these things, the Lord also appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two before His face into every city and place, even to where He was about to come.
Therefore He said to them, Indeed the harvest is much, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray to the Lord of the harvest, that He send out workers into His harvest.
Go! Behold, I send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Do not carry a purse, nor a moneybag, nor sandals; and greet no one by the way.
And into whatever house you may enter, first say, Peace to this house.
And if a son of peace is truly there, your peace shall rest on it; but if not so, it shall return to you.
And remain in the same house, eating and drinking the things shared by them; for the laborer is worthy of his hire. Do not move from house to house.
And into whatever city you enter, and they receive you, eat the things set before you.
And heal the sick in it, and say to them, The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.
But into whatever city you enter, and they do not receive you, going out into its streets, say,
Even the dust clinging to us out of your city, we shake off against you! Yet know this, that the kingdom of God has drawn near to you!
And I say to you that it shall be more bearable for Sodom in that day than for that city!
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the works of power which have been occurring in you had occurred in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago sitting in sackcloth and ashes!
But it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon in the Judgment than for you.
And you, Capernaum, were you not exalted to the heaven? "You will be thrust down to Hades!" Isa. 14:13, 15
The one hearing you hears Me, and the one rejecting you also rejects Me, and the one rejecting Me also rejects the One having sent Me.
And the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us through Your Name.
And He said to them, I saw Satan falling out of Heaven as lightning!
Behold, I have given you the authority to tread on snakes and scorpions, and on all the power of the Enemy, and nothing shall hurt you, not at all
But stop rejoicing in this, that the evil spirits submit to you. But rather rejoice that your names are written in Heaven.
In the same hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit, and said, I praise You, Father, Lord of Heaven and of earth, that You hid these things from the sophisticated and cunning and revealed them to babes; yes, Father, because so it was pleasing before You.
All things were delivered to Me by My Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father; and who is the Father, except the Son, and he to whom the Son may desire to reveal Him .
And having turned to the disciples alone, He said, Blessed are the eyes seeing what you see.
For I say to you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, and did not see, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear.
And behold, a certain lawyer stood up, testing Him and saying, Teacher, What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
And He said to him, What has been written in the Law? How do you read it ?
And answering, he said, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength," and with all your mind, and "your neighbor as yourself." Deut. 6:5; Lev. 19:18
And He said to him, You have answered rightly; do this, and you shall live.
But desiring to justify himself, he said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor?
And taking it up, Jesus said, A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell in with robbers, who both stripping him and laying on blows, went away, leaving him being half dead.
But by a coincidence, a certain priest was going on that road; and seeing him, he passed on the opposite side .
And in the same way, a Levite, also being at the place, coming and seeing him , he passed on the opposite side .
But a certain traveling Samaritan came upon him, and seeing him, he was filled with pity.
And coming near, he bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. And putting him on his own animal, he brought him to an inn and cared for him.
And going forth on the morrow, taking out two denarii, he gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Care for him, and whatever more you spend, on my return I will repay to you.
Who, then, of these three seems to you to have become a neighbor to the one having fallen among the robbers?
And he said, The one doing the deed of mercy with him. Then Jesus said to him, Go, and you do likewise.
And as they went on, it happened, He also entered into a certain village. And a certain woman, Martha by name, received Him into her house.
And she had a sister being called Mary, who also was sitting alongside, at the feet of Jesus, and heard His word.
But Martha was distracted about much serving. And coming on she said, Lord, Is it not a care to You that my sister left me alone to serve? Then tell her that she should help me.
But answering Jesus said to her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things,
But there is need of only one; and Mary chose the good part, which shall not be taken from her.