And the rulers of the people dwelt in Jerusalem,—and, the rest of the people, cast lots, to bring in one out of ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts in [other] cities.
And the people bestowed a blessing on all the men, who willingly offered themselves to dwell in Jerusalem.
Now, these, are the chiefs of the province, who dwelt in Jerusalem, but, in the cities of Judah, dwelt every man in his possession throughout their cities, Israel, the priests, and the Levites and the Nethinim, and the Sons of the Servants of Solomon.
And, in Jerusalem, dwelt certain of the sons of Judah and of the sons of Benjamin,—Of the sons of Judah, Athaiah son of Uzziah, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephatiah, son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez;
and Maaseiah son of Baruch, son of Col-hozeh, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joiarib, son of Zechariah, son of the Shilonite.
All the sons of Perez who were dwelling in Jerusalem, four hundred and sixty-eight, men of ability.
And, these, are the sons of Benjamin,—Sallu son of Meshullam, son of Joed, son of Pedaiah, son of Kolaiah, son of Maaseiah, son of Ithiel, son of Jeshaiah;
and, after him, Gabbai, Sallai,—nine hundred and twenty-eight.
And, Joel son of Zichri, was in charge over them,—and, Judah son of Hassenuah, was over the city, as second.
Of the priests, Jedaiah son of Joiarib, Jachin;
Seraiah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, chief ruler of the house of God;
and their brethren who were doing the work of the house, eight hundred and twenty-two,—and Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pelaliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechariah, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah;
and his brethren, ancestral chiefs, two hundred and forty-two,—and Amashsai son of Azarel, son of Ahzai, son of Meshillemoth, son of Immer;
and their brethren, strong men of ability, a hundred and twenty-eight,—and, he who was in charge of them, was Zabdiel, son of Haggedolim.
And, of the Levites, Shemaiah son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, son of Bunni;
and Shabbethai and Jozabad, over the outside business of the house of God, of the chiefs of the Levites;
and Mattaniah son of Mica, son of Zabdi, son of Asaph, leader of the praise who giveth thanks, in prayer, and Bakbukiah the second among his brethren,—and Obadiah son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun.
All the Levites in the holy city, were two hundred and eighty-four.
And, the door-keepers—Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren who were keeping watch in the gates, were a hundred and seventy-two.
But, the residue of Israel, the priests, the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, every one in his inheritance.
Howbeit, the Nethinim, were dwelling in Ophel,—and, Ziha and Gishpa, were over the Nethinim.
And, the overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem, was Uzzi son of Bani, son of Hashabiah, son of Mattaniah, son of Mica,—of the sons of Asaph the singers, to take lead in the business of the house of God.
For, the commandment of the king, was upon them,—as to a fixed provision for the singers, the need of a day upon its day.
And, Pethahiah son of Meshezabel, of the sons of Zerah, son of Judah, was at the hand of the king, in every matter pertaining to the people.
And, as for the villages in their fields, some of the sons of Judah, dwelt in Kiriath-arba, and the hamlets thereof, and in Dibon, and the hamlets thereof, and in Jekabzeel, and the villages thereof;
and in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and in Beth-pelet;
and in Hazar-shual, and in Beer-sheba, and the hamlets thereof;
and in Ziklag, and in Meconah, and in the hamlets thereof,
and in En-rimmmon, and in Zorah, and in Jarmuth;
Zanoah, Adullam and their villages, Lachish, and the fields thereof, Azekah, and the hamlets thereof,—so they encamped from Beer-sheba, unto the valley of Hinnom.
And, the sons of Benjamin, [dwelt] from Geba, to Michmas and Aija, and Bethel, and the hamlets thereof:
Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah;
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim;
Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat;
Lod and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
Howbeit, of the Levites, certain courses of Judah, pertained unto Benjamin.