And he came even unto Derbe, and unto Lystra; and lo! a certain disciple, was there, by name Timothy, son of a believing Jewish woman, but whose father was a Greek,—
who was well-attested by the brethren in Lystra, and Iconium.
The same, would Paul have go forth with him, and took and circumcised him, on account of the Jews who were in those places; for they one and all knew that, his father, was, a Greek.
And, as they passed through the cities, they were delivering unto them, for observance, the decrees which had been decided upon by the Apostles and Elders who were in Jerusalem.
The assemblies, therefore, were being confirmed in the faith, and increasing in number, every day.
And they passed through the Phrygian and Galatian country, being forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia;
but, coming along Mysia, they were attempting to journey into Bithynia,—and, the Spirit of Jesus, suffered them not;
but, passing by Mysia, they came down unto Troas.
And, a vision, by night, unto Paul appeared:—A man of Macedonia, there was, standing and beseeching him, and saying—Come over into Macedonia, and bring us succour!
Now, when, the vision, he had seen, straightway, we sought to go forth unto Macedonia, concluding that God, had summoned us to tell the glad tidings unto them.
Setting sail, therefore, from Troas, we ran straight into Samothracia, and, on the morrow, unto New City,
and, from thence, unto Philippi,—which, indeed, is the first city of the part of Macedonia—a colony. And we were, in this city, spending certain days;
and on the day of rest, we went forth outside the gate, beside a river, where we supposed there was a place of prayer,—and, sitting down, we went on to speak unto the women who had come together.
And, a certain woman, by name Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, devout towards God, was hearkening, whose heart, the Lord, fully opened, to be giving heed unto the things being spoken by Paul.
And, when she was immersed, and her house, she besought [us], saying—If ye have judged me to be a believer in the Lord, come into my house, and abide [there] . And she constrained us.
And it came to pass, as we were on our way unto the place of prayer, a certain damsel, having a spirit of Python, met us,—who, indeed, much gain, was presenting unto her masters, by divining.
The same, following after Paul and us, kept crying aloud, saying—These men, are servants of the Most High God,—who, indeed, are declaring unto you a way of salvation.
And, this, she continued to do for many days. But Paul, worn out, and turning unto the spirit, said—I charge thee, in the name of Jesus Christ, to come out from her. And it came out the same hour.
And, her masters, seeing that their hope of gain had gone out, laying hold on Paul and Silas, dragged them into the market-place, unto the rulers;
and, leading them forward unto the magistrates, said—These men, are exceedingly troubling our city, they, being Jews,
And are declaring customs, which it is not allowable for us either to accept or to observe, being Romans.
And the multitude rose up together against them, and, the magistrates, rending off them their mantles, were giving orders to beat them with rods;
and, laying upon them many stripes, they thrust them into prison, charging the prison-keeper, safely, to be keeping them:
who, a charge like this receiving, thrust them into the inner prison, and, their feet, made he fast in the stocks.
And, at midnight, Paul and Silas, being at prayer, began singing praise unto God; and the prisoners unto them, did hearken.
And, suddenly, a great earthquake took place,—so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and all the doors were [instantly] set open, and the bonds of all were unfastened.
And, the prison-keeper, being wakened and seeing that the doors of the prison had been opened, drawing his sword, was about to kill himself, supposing the prisoners to have fled.
But Paul called out with a loud voice, saying—By no means, do thyself harm, for we are, one and all, here.
And, asking for a light, he sprang in, and becoming, agitated, fell down unto Paul and Silas,
and, leading them forth outside, said—Sirs! what must I be doing, that I may be saved?
And, they, said—Believe on the Lord Jesus, and thou shalt be saved, thou, and thy house.
And they spake unto him the word of God, with all who were in his house.
And, taking them with him, in that hour of the night, he bathed them from their stripes, and was immersed, he, and his, one and all, on the spot;
and, leading them up into his house, he set near a table,—and exulted, having, with all his house, believed in God.
And. when day came. the magistrates sent off the constables saying—Let those men go!
And the prison-keeper reported the words unto Paul—The magistrates have sent, that ye be let go. Now, therefore, going forth, be taking your journey in peace.
But, Paul, said unto them—Beating us, in public, uncondemned, men that are Romans, they thrust us into prison;—and, now, by stealth, are they thrusting us forth? Nay, verily! but let them come, themselves, and lead us out!
And the constables reported unto the magistrates these words; and they were struck with fear, when they heard that they were, Romans;
and came, and besought them, and, leading them out, went on to request them to depart from the city.
And so, coming forth from the prison, they went unto Lydia, and, seeing the brethren, they comforted them, and went forth.