And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
On the first day of the first month thou shall raise up the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
And thou shall put the ark of the testimony in it, and thou shall screen the ark with the veil.
And thou shall bring in the table, and set in order the things that are upon it, and thou shall bring in the lampstand, and light the lamps of it.
And thou shall set the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the screen of the door to the tabernacle.
And thou shall set the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
And thou shall set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and shall put water in it.
And thou shall set up the court round about, and hang up the screen of the gate of the court.
And thou shall take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that is in it, and shall hallow it, and all the furniture of it. And it shall be holy.
And thou shall anoint the altar of burnt offering, and all its vessels, and sanctify the altar. And the altar shall be most holy.
And thou shall anoint the laver and its base, and sanctify it.
And thou shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the tent of meeting, and shall wash them with water.
And thou shall put upon Aaron the holy garments, and thou shall anoint him, and sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest's office.
And thou shall bring his sons, and put tunics upon them,
and thou shall anoint them, as thou anointed their father, that they may minister to me in the priest's office. And their anointing shall be to them for an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.
Thus did Moses. According to all that Jehovah commanded him, so did he.
And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was raised up.
And Moses raised up the tabernacle, and laid its sockets, and set up the boards of it, and put in the bars of it, and raised up its pillars.
And he spread the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above upon it, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the staves on the ark, and put the mercy-seat above upon the ark.
And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the veil of the screen, and screened the ark of the testimony, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he put the table in the tent of meeting, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, outside the veil.
And he set the bread in order upon it before Jehovah, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he put the lampstand in the tent of meeting, opposite the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.
And he lit the lamps before Jehovah, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil,
and he burnt incense of sweet spices on it, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he put the screen of the door to the tabernacle.
And he set the altar of burnt offering at the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and offered upon it the burnt offering and the meal offering, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it, with which to wash.
And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet there.
They washed when they went into the tent of meeting, and when they came near to the altar, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
And he raised up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the screen of the gate of the court. So Moses finished the work.
Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of Jehovah filled the tabernacle.
And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of meeting, because the cloud abode thereupon, and the glory of Jehovah filled the tabernacle.
And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the sons of Israel went onward, throughout all their journeys,
but if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not journey till the day that it was taken up.
For the cloud of Jehovah was upon the tabernacle by day, and there was fire therein by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.