Because of this, having left the discourse of the beginning of Christ, let us be borne on to full growth, not laying down again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
of the baptisms, of doctrine, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of dead ones, and of eternal judgment.
And this we will do, if indeed God permits.
For it is impossible for those being once enlightened, and having tasted of the heavenly gift, and becoming sharers of the Holy Spirit,
and tasting the good Word of God, and the works of power of a coming age,
then falling away, it is impossible for them again to renew to repentance, crucifying again for themselves the Son of God, and putting Him to open shame.
(For the earth drinking in the rain often coming upon it, and producing plants fit for those for whom it is also worked, receives blessing from God;
"but bearing thorns and thistles," it is deemed unfit and near a curse, of which the end is for burning.) Gen. 3:17, 18
But, loved ones, even if we indeed speak so, we have been persuaded better things concerning you, even holding fast salvation.
For God is not unjust, to forget your work and the labor of love which you showed to His name, ministering to the saints, and now are ministering.
But we desire each of you to show the same eagerness, to the full assurance of the hope to the end;
that you not become dull, but imitators of those who through faith and longsuffering are inheriting the promises.
For God having made promise to Abraham, since He had no greater to swear by, " He swore by Himself,"
saying, "Surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you." Gen. 22:16, 17
And so, being long-suffering, he obtained the promise.
For men indeed swear by the greater, and an oath to make things sure is to them the end of all gainsaying.
In which way, desiring to more fully declare to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His counsel, God interposed by an oath,
that through two unchangeable things, in which it was not possible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, those having fled to lay hold on the hope set before us ,
which we have as an anchor of the soul, both certain and sure, and entering into the inner side of the veil, Lev. 16:12
where Jesus entered as forerunner for us, having become a High Priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.