If there be a controversy between men, and they come to judgment, and they judge them, then they shall justify the righteous, and condemn the iniquitous.
And it shall be, if the iniquitous man is deserving to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before his face, according to his iniquity, by number.
He may give him forty stripes. He shall not exceed, lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with many stripes, then thy brother should seem debased to thee.
Thou shall not muzzle the ox when he treads out the grain.
If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies, and has no son, the wife of the dead man shall not be married outside to a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go in to her, and take her to him to wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her.
And it shall be, that the firstborn who she bears shall succeed in the name of his brother who is dead, that his name be not blotted out of Israel.
And if the man does not want to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders, and say, My husband's brother refuses to raise up to his brother a name in Israel. He will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me.
Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak to him. And if he stands, and says, I do not want to take her,
then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face. And she shall answer and say, So shall it be done to the man who does not build up his brother's house.
And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him who has his shoe loosed.
When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draws near to deliver her husband out of the hand of him who smites him, and puts forth her hand, and takes him by the privates,
then thou shall cut off her hand. Thine eye shall have no pity.
Thou shall not have in thy bag diverse weights, a great and a small.
Thou shall not have in thy house diverse measures, a great and a small.
A perfect and just weight thou shall have, a perfect and just measure thou shall have, that thy days may be long in the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee.
For all who do such things, even all who do unrighteously, are an abomination to Jehovah thy God.
Remember what Amalek did to thee by the way as ye came forth out of Egypt,
how he met thee by the way, and smote the hindmost of thee, all who were feeble behind thee, when thou were faint and weary, and he feared not God.
Therefore it shall be, when Jehovah thy God has given thee rest from all thine enemies round about, in the land which Jehovah thy God gives thee for an inheritance to possess it, that thou shall blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. Thou shall not forget.