I BESEECH you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service.
And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renovation of your mind, that you may prove by experience what is the will of God, that is good, acceptable, and perfect.
For, I say, by the grace which is given unto me, to every one that is among you, not to think of himself above what he ought to think; but to think soberly, as God has divided to every one the measure of faith.
For as we have in one body many members, but the members, though many, have not the same function,
so we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one reciprocally members of each other.
Having then different gifts according to the grace which is given unto us, if it be prophecy, speak according to the analogy of faith;
or if the deacon’s office, be active in the service; or he that teacheth, in teaching;
or he that exhorteth, in exhortation; he that distributes, let him do it with simplicity; he that presideth, with diligence; he that is employed in acts of mercy, with cheerfulness.
Let love be undissembled. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good.
In brotherly affection be tenderly attached to each other; in honour preferring one another:
not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord:
rejoicing in hope; patient in affliction; persevering in prayer:
communicating to the wants of the saints; prompt to hospitality.
Bless them who persecute you; bless, and curse not.
Rejoice with those that rejoice, and weep with those that weep.
Be of the same mind among each other. Affect not high things, but be condescending to the lowly. Be not wise in your own conceits.
Render to no man evil for evil. Be provident of things laudable in the sight of all men.
If possible, as far as you can, be at peace with all men.
Avenge not yourselves, beloved, but give place unto wrath: for it is written, “Vengeance belongeth to me; I will recompence, saith the Lord.”
If therefore thine enemy hunger, give him food; if he thirst, give him drink: for so doing, thou shalt heap up coals of fire on his head.
Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.