Now, before the feast of the passover, Jesus, knowing that his hour had come, that he should remove out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own that were in the world, unto the end, loved them.
And, supper, being in progress, the adversary, having already thrust into the heart of Judas son of Simon Iscariot, that he should deliver him up,—
[Jesus] knowing that, all things, the Father had given unto him, into his hands, and that, from God, he had come, and, unto God, he was going,
rouseth himself out of the supper, and layeth aside his garments, and taking a linen cloth, girded himself.
Next, he poureth water into the wash-basin, and began to be washing the feet of the disciples, and to be wiping them with the linen cloth wherewith he was girded.
So he cometh unto Simon Peter. He saith unto him—Lord, dost, thou, wash my feet?
Jesus answered, and said unto him—What, I, am doing, thou, knowest not, as yet; howbeit, thou shalt got to know, hereafter.
Peter saith unto him—In nowise shalt thou, ever, wash my feet. Jesus answered him—If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me.
Simon Peter saith unto him—Lord! not my feet only, but my hands also, and my head.
Jesus saith unto him—He that hath bathed himself, hath no need [save as to the feet] to get washed; but is pure, as a whole. And, ye, are, pure, but not ye, all.
For he know the man that was delivering him up; therefore, said he—Not ye all, are pure.
When, therefore, he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, and reclined, again said he unto them—Are ye taking note, what I have done unto you?
Ye, call me, The Teacher, and, The Lord,—and, well, say, for I am.
If then, I, have washed your feet,—[I] The Lord, and, The Teacher, ye also, ought to wash, one another’s, feet;
For, an example, have I given you,—that, just as, I, did unto you, ye also, should be doing.
Verily, verily, I say unto you—A servant is not greater than his lord, neither one sent forth greater than he that sent him.
If, these things, ye know, happy, are ye, if ye be doing them.
Not, concerning you all, am I speaking,—for, I, know of whom I made choice; but…that, the Scripture, might be fulfilled: He that feedeth on my bread, hath lifted up against me, his heel.
Henceforth, I tell you, before it cometh to pass,—that ye may believe, whensoever it doth come to pass, that, I, am he.
Verily, verily, I say unto you—He that receiveth whomsoever I shall send, receiveth, me; and, he that receiveth, me, receiveth him that sent me.
These things, having said, Jesus, was troubled in spirit, and bare witness, and said—Verily, verily, I say unto you—One from among you, will deliver me up.
The disciples began to look one at another, being at a loss concerning whom he was speaking.
One of Jesus’ disciples was reclining in his bosom, one whom Jesus loved:
so Simon Peter beckoneth unto the same, and saith unto him—Say, Who is it? concerning whom he speaketh.
He, falling back thus, upon the breast of Jesus, saith unto him—Lord! who is it?
Jesus, therefore, answereth—That one, it is, for whom, I, shall dip the morsel, and give unto him. So, dipping the morsel, he taketh and giveth it unto Judas, son of Simon Iscariot.
And, after the morsel, then, entered, Satan, into that man. Jesus, therefore, saith unto him—What thou art doing, do quickly!
But, as to this, none of them who were reclining with him knew respecting what, he said it to him.
For, some, were thinking, since Judas held the bag, that Jesus was saying to him—Buy the things of which we have, need, for the feast; or that, unto the destitute, he should give something.
So, he, taking the morsel, went out straightway;—and it was night.
When, therefore, he had gone out, Jesus saith—Just now, was, the Son of Man, glorified, and, God, was glorified in him;
And, God, will glorify him, in himself,—and, straightway, glorify him.
Dear children! Yet a little, am I, with you. Ye shall seek me, and, just as I said unto the Jews, Whither, I, go, ye, cannot come, unto you also, I say it, even now.
A new commandment, give I unto you,—That ye be loving one another: Just as I loved you, that, ye also, be loving one another:
By this, shall all men take knowledge, that, my disciples, ye are,—If ye have, love, one to another.
Simon Peter saith unto him—Lord! whither dost thou withdraw? Jesus answered—Whither I withdraw, thou canst not, now, follow me, but thou shalt follow, hereafter.
Peter saith unto him—Lord! why, cannot I follow thee, even now? My life, in thy behalf, will I lay down.
Jesus answereth—Thy life, in my behalf, wilt thou lay down? Verily, verily, I say unto thee—In nowise shall a cock crow till thou hast denied me, thrice.