And it came to pass, when Jesus ended these words, he removed from Galilee and came into the bounds of Judaea beyond the Jordan.
And there followed him large multitudes, and he cured them there.
And there came unto him Pharisees, testing him, and saying,—Whether is it allowed a man to divorce his wife, for every cause?
And, he, answering, said—Did ye never read—He who created at the beginning, Male and female, made them,—
and said—For this cause, will a man leave his father and his mother, and be united to his wife,—and, the two, will become, one flesh;
So that, the longer, are they, two, but, one flesh, What, therefore, God, hath yoked together, Let not, a man, put asunder.
They say unto him—Why then did, Moses, command, to give a writing of repudiation and to divorce?
He saith unto them—Moses, in view of your hardness of heart, permitted you to divorce your wives; From the beginning however, hath it not been done, thus.
And I say unto you—Whosoever shall divorce his wife, saving for unfaithfulness, and shall marry another, committeth adultery.
The disciples say unto him—If, so, is the cause of the husband with the wife, it is not expedient to marry.
But, he, said unto them—Not all, find room for he word, save they to whom it hath been given;
For there, are, eunuchs, who, from their mother’s womb, were born so, and there, are, eunuchs, who were made eunuchs, by men,—and there, are, eunuchs, who have made, themselves, eunuchs, for the sake the kingdom of the heavens: He that is able to find room, let him find room.
Then, were brought unto him children,—that he might lay his hands upon them, and pray. And, the disciples, rebuked them.
But, Jesus, said—Suffer the children—and do not hinder them—to come unto me,—for, of such, is the kingdom of the heavens.
And, laying his hands upon them, he went his way from thence.
And lo! one coming near unto him, said, Teacher! what good thing shall I do, that I may have life age-abiding?
And, he, said unto him—Why dost thou question me concerning that which is good? There is, One, that is good! But, if thou desirest, into life, to enter, be keeping the commandments.
He saith unto him, Which? Jesus, said—These: Thou shalt not commit murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal,—Thou shalt not bear false witness;
Honour thy father and thy mother,—and—Thou shalt love thy neighbour as, thyself.
The young man saith unto him—These all, have I kept,—What, further, do I lack?
Jesus said unto him—If thou desirest to be perfect, Withdraw! sell thy substance, and give to the destitute,—and thou shalt have treasure in the heavens; and come! be following me.
And the young man, hearing, this word, went away sorrowing,—for he was holding large possessions.
And, Jesus, said unto his disciples—Verily, I say unto you, A rich man, with difficulty, shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Again I say unto you—Easier, is it for, a camel, through the eye of a needle, to enter, than a rich man—into the kingdom of God.
And, hearing it, the disciples were being struck with the greatest astonishment, saying—Who then can be saved?
And, looking intently, Jesus said unto them—With men, this is, impossible, but, with God, all things are possible.
Then, making answer, Peter said unto him—Lo! we, have left all, and followed thee,—What then shall there be, for us?
And, Jesus, said unto them—Verily, I say unto you, As for you who followed me in the regeneration, When the Son of Man shall take his seat on his throne of glory, ye also, shall be seated upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And, whosoever left houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands, for sake of my name, manifold, shall receive, and life, age-abiding, shall inherit.
But many shall be—first-last, and last-first.