And the ones being sealed were Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hachaliah, and Zidkijah,
Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah,
Pashur, Amariah, Malchijah,
Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,
Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah,
Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,
Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin,
Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah. These were the priests.
And the Levites were both Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui, of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel,
and their brothers, Shebaniah, Hodijah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,
Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah,
Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,
Hodijah, Bani, Beninu.
The rulers of the people were Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, Zatthu, Bani,
Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,
Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,
Ater, Hizkijah, Azzur,
Hodijah, Hashum, Bezai,
Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai,
Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,
Meshezabeel, Zadok, Jaddua,
Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,
Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,
Hallohesh, Pileha, Shobek,
Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
and Ahijah, Hanan, Anan,
Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
And the rest of the people the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, the temple-slaves, and all those who separated from the people of the lands to the Law of God, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, all knowing and discerning ones ,
were holding fast to their brothers, their honored ones; and were entering into a curse and into an oath, to walk in God's law which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to keep and to do all the commandments of Jehovah our Lord, and His judgments and His statutes.
And we swore that we would not give our daughters to the people of the land nor take their daughters for our sons.
And if the people of the land should bring goods or any food to sell on the Sabbath, we would not take from them on the Sabbath, or on the holy day. And they would forego the seventh year, and the interest of every hand.
Also, we put commands on ourselves, to charge ourselves yearly with the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God,
for the Bread of Arrangement, and for the continual food offering, and for the continual burnt offering, of the sabbaths, of the new moons, for the set feasts, and for the holy things , and for the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and all the work of the house of God.
And we made fall the lots among the priests, and the Levites, and the people, for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God, according to the houses of our fathers, at times appointed year by year, to burn on the altar of Jehovah our God, as it is written in the Law;
also to bring the firstfruits of our ground, and the firstfruits of all fruit of all trees, year by year, to the house of Jehovah;
also to bring the first-born of our sons, and of our cattle, as it is written in the Law; and the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God.
And that we should bring the firstfruits of our dough, and our offerings, and the fruit of all kinds of trees, of wine, and of oil, to the priests, to the rooms of the house of our God; and the tithes of our ground to the Levites; and they, the Levites, might have the tithes in all the cities we worked.
And the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites, tithing the Levites; and the Levites shall bring up the tithes of the tithes to the house of our God to the rooms, into the treasure house.
For the sons of Israel, and the sons of Levi, shall bring the offering of the grain, of the new wine, and the oil, to the rooms, and there shall be the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests ministering, and the gatekeepers and the singers. And we will not forsake the house of our God.