And the word of Jehovah was to me in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth of the month, saying,
Son of man, write for yourself the name of the day, this very day. The king of Babylon has leaned toward Jerusalem in this very day.
And parable a parable to the house of rebellion, and say to them, So says the Lord Jehovah: Set on the pot! Set on, and also pour water in it.
Gather its pieces into it, every good piece, the thigh and the shoulder. Fill it with choice bones,
take the choice of the flock and also pile the bones under it. Boiling make it boil. Also let them seethe its bones in it.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose rust is in it, and its rust has not gone out of it! Bring it out piece by piece. Let not a lot fall on it.
For her blood is in her midst, she set it on a shining rock. She did not pour it on the ground, to cover it with dust.
In order to cause fury to come up to take vengeance, I have put her blood on a shining rock, that it should not be covered.
So the Lord Jehovah says this: Woe to the bloody city! I also shall heap on the pile,
and heap on the wood, kindle the fire, consume the flesh, and mix in the spice, and let the bones be burned.
Then make it stand on its coals empty, so that it may be hot and its bronze may glow, and its defilement be melted in its midst, that its rust may be consumed.
She is wearied with toil, and the increase of her rust did not go out, her rust will be in the fire.
In your defilement is wickedness. Because I have cleansed you, yet you are not clean, you shall not be cleansed from your defilement any more until I have caused My fury to cease on you.
I, Jehovah, have spoken; it shall come, and I will do it . I will not let go, and I will not spare, I will not pity. By your ways and by your doings they shall judge you, declares the Lord Jehovah.
And the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Son of man, behold, I am taking from you the desire of your eyes with a blow. Yet you shall not wail nor weep, and your tears shall not come.
Groan, but be silent; do not make a mourning for the dead. Bind your turban on you, and put your sandals on your feet, and do not cover the mustache nor eat the bread of men.
So I spoke to the people in the morning. And my wife died in the evening. And I did in the morning as I was commanded.
And the people said to me, Will you not tell us what the things you are doing are to us?
Then I said to them, The word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
Speak to the house of Israel, So says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will profane My sanctuary, the pride of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pities. And your sons and your daughters whom you have forsaken shall fall by the sword.
And you shall do as I have done. You shall not cover over the mustache, and you shall not eat the bread of men.
And your turbans shall be on your heads and your sandals on your feet. You shall not wail nor weep, but you shall rot away in your iniquities, and each man groan to his brother.
So Ezekiel is for a sign to you. As all that he has done, you shall do. And when it comes, then you shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
And you, son of man, will it not be on the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their beauty, the desire of their eyes, and the lifting up of their soul, their sons and their daughters?
He will come in that day, he who escaped to you, to cause you to hear with your ears.
In that day your mouth shall be opened to the escaped one, and you shall speak and not be dumb any longer. And you shall be to them a sign, and they shall know that I am Jehovah.