But it shall be in the end of the days, the mountain of the house of Jehovah shall be established on the top of the mountains; and it shall be lifted up from the hills; and peoples shall flow on it.
And many nations shall come and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah, and to the house of the God of Jacob. And He will teach us from His ways, and we will walk in His paths. For the law shall go forth out of Zion, and the word of Jehovah from Jerusalem.
And He shall judge between many peoples, and will decide for strong nations afar off. And they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up a sword against nation, nor shall they learn war still.
But they shall each one sit under his vine and under his fig tree, and there shall be no trembling. For the mouth of Jehovah of hosts has spoken.
For all the peoples walk, each one in the name of his god; but we will walk in the name of Jehovah our God forever and ever.
In that day I will gather the lame, declares Jehovah, and I will gather the banished, and the one I have afflicted.
And I will make the lame into a remnant, and her who was cast off into a strong nation. And Jehovah shall reign over them in Mount Zion from now on, and to forever.
And you, tower of the flock, the hill of the daughter of Zion, it shall happen to you. And the rulers, the chief ones, shall come, the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem.
Now why do you cry aloud, an outcry? Is there not a king among you? Has your adviser perished? For pangs have seized you like one giving birth.
Be in pain and deliver, daughter of Zion, like one giving birth. For now you shall go out from the city, and you shall live in the field. And you shall come to Babylon. There you shall be snatched back. There Jehovah shall redeem you from the palm of your enemies.
Now also many nations are gathered against you, saying, Let her be defiled, and let our eyes look on Zion.
But they do not know the plans of Jehovah, nor do they understand His counsel. For He has gathered them like the sheaf to the threshing floor.
Rise up and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze, and you shall crush many peoples. And I will devote their gain to Jehovah, and their wealth to the Lord of all the earth.