And, in the seventh year, Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took the rulers of hundreds—even Azariah son of Jeroham, and Ishmael son of Jehohanan, and Azariah son of Obed, and Maaseiah son of Adaiah and Elishaphat son of Zichri—unto himself, in covenant.
And they went round throughout Judah, and gathered together the Levites out of all the cities of Judah, and the ancestral chiefs of Israel,—and they came into Jerusalem.
And all the convocation solemnised a covenant in the house of God, with the king,—and he said to them, Lo! the king’s son must reign, as spake Yahweh concerning the sons of David.
This, is the thing that ye shall do,—A third of you entering on the sabbath, both of the priests and of the Levites, as doorkeepers of the porch;
and a third, being in the house of the king, and a third, at the foundation gate,—and all the people, being in the courts of the house of Yahweh,
then let no one enter the house of Yahweh, save only the priests, and they who are in attendance of the Levites, they, may enter, for, holy, they are,-but, all the people, shall keep the watch of Yahweh.
So shall the Levites encompass the king round about, every man with his weapons in his hand, and, he that entereth into the house, shall be put to death. Thus be ye with the king, when he cometh in and when he goeth out.
So the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded, and they took every man his men, who were coming in on the sabbath, with them who were going out on the sabbath,—for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.
And Jehoiada the priest gave unto the captains of hundreds, the spears and the bucklers and the shields, which belonged to King David,—which were in the house of God.
And be caused all the people to stand, even every man with his weapon in his hand, from the right corner of the house as far as the left corner of the house, by the altar and the house,—near the king round about.
Then brought they forth the king’s son, and set upon him the crown and the testimony, and made him king,—and Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and said, May the king live!
Now, when Athaliah heard the noise of the people who were running, and those who were praising the king,—then came she unto the people in the house of Yahweh;
and looked, and lo! the king, standing by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the trumpets by the king, and all the people of the land rejoicing, and blowing with trumpets, and the singers, with instruments of song, and such as led the offering of praise, then Athaliah rent her garments, and said, Conspiracy! conspiracy!
Then Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of hundreds, officers of the force, and said unto them, Take her forth within the ranks, and he that cometh in after her let him be slain with the sword,—for, said the priest, Ye must not slay her in the house of Yahweh!
So they made way for her, and she came into the entrance of the horse-gate of the house of the king,—and they slew her there.
And Jehoiada solemnised a covenant, between himself and all the people, and the king,—that they should become a people unto Yahweh.
Then all the people entered into the house of Baal and brake it down, and, his altars and his images, brake they in pieces,—and, Mattan the priest of Baal, they slew, before the altars.
And Jehoiada put the oversight of the house of Yahweh into the hand of the priests and the Levites, whom David set by courses over the house of Yahweh, that they might offer up the ascending-sacrifices of Yahweh, as it is written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with song,—under the direction of David.
And he caused gatekeepers to stand, at the gates of the house of Yahweh,—that no one who was unclean should, on any account, enter.
Then took he the captains of hundreds—and the nobles—and the rulers over the people—and all the people of the land, and brought down the king out of the house of Yahweh, and they entered, through the midst of the upper gate, into the house of the king,—and they seated the king, upon the throne of the kingdom.
And all the people of the land rejoiced, and, the city, was quiet,—when, Athaliah, they had slain with the sword.