Maschil of Ethan the Ezrahite.
I will sing of the mercies of HaShem for ever; to all generations will I make known Thy faithfulness with my mouth.
For I have said: 'For ever is mercy built; in the very heavens Thou dost establish Thy faithfulness.
I have made a covenant with My chosen, I have sworn unto David My servant:
For ever will I establish thy seed, and build up thy throne to all generations.' Selah
So shall the heavens praise Thy wonders, O HaShem, Thy faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones.
For who in the skies can be compared unto HaShem, who among the sons of might can be likened unto HaShem,
A G-d dreaded in the great council of the holy ones, and feared of all them that are about Him?
O HaShem G-d of hosts, who is a mighty one, like unto Thee, O HaShem? And Thy faithfulness is round about Thee.
Thou rulest the proud swelling of the sea; when the waves thereof arise, Thou stillest them.
Thou didst crush Rahab, as one that is slain; Thou didst scattered Thine enemies with the arm of Thy strength.
Thine are the heavens, Thine also the earth; the world and the fulness thereof, Thou hast founded them.
The north and the south, Thou hast created them; Tabor and Hermon rejoice in Thy name.
Thine is an arm with might; strong is Thy hand, and exalted is Thy right hand.
Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Thy throne; mercy and truth go before Thee.
Happy is the people that know the joyful shout; they walk, O HaShem, in the light of Thy countenance.
In Thy name do they rejoice all the day; and through Thy righteousness are they exalted.
For Thou art the glory of their strength; and in Thy favour our horn is exalted.
For of HaShem is our shield; and the Holy One of Israel is our king.
Then Thou spokest in vision to Thy godly ones, and saidst: 'I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people.
I have found David My servant; with My holy oil have I anointed him;
With whom My hand shall be established; Mine arm also shall strengthen him.
The enemy shall not exact from him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
And I will beat to pieces his adversaries before him, and smite them that hate him.
But My faithfulness and My mercy shall be with him; and through My name shall his horn be exalted.
I will set his hand also on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers.
He shall call unto Me: Thou art my Father, my G-d, and the rock of my salvation.
I also will appoint him first-born, the highest of the kings of the earth.
For ever will I keep for him My mercy, and My covenant shall stand fast with him.
His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven.
If his children forsake My law, and walk not in Mine ordinances;
If they profane My statutes, and keep not My commandments;
Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with strokes.
But My mercy will I not break off from him, nor will I be false to My faithfulness.
My covenant will I not profane, nor alter that which is gone out of My lips.
Once have I sworn by My holiness: Surely I will not be false unto David;
His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before Me.
It shall be established for ever as the moon; and be stedfast as the witness in sky.' Selah
But Thou hast cast off and rejected, Thou hast been wroth with Thine anointed.
Thou hast abhorred the covenant of Thy servant; Thou hast profaned his crown even to the ground.
Thou hast broken down all his fences; Thou hast brought his strongholds to ruin.
All that pass by the way spoil him; he is become a taunt to his neighbours.
Thou hast exalted the right hand of his adversaries; Thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.
Yea, Thou turnest back the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle.
Thou hast made his brightness to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.
The days of his youth hast Thou shortened; Thou hast covered him with shame. Selah
How long, O HaShem, wilt Thou hide Thyself for ever? How long shall Thy wrath burn like fire?
O remember how short my time is; for what vanity hast Thou created all the children of men!
What man is he that liveth and shall not see death, that shall deliver his soul from the power of the grave? Selah
Where are Thy former mercies, O L-rd, which Thou didst swear unto David in Thy faithfulness?
Remember, L-rd, the taunt of Thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the taunt of so many peoples;
Wherewith Thine enemies have taunted, O HaShem, wherewith they have taunted the footsteps of Thine anointed.
Blessed be HaShem for evermore. Amen, and Amen. BOOK IV