And when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
And Paul, according to his custom, went in to them, and, for three sabbath-days, he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,
explaining and affirming that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead; and that this Jesus whom I preach to you is the Christ.
And some of them believed, and associated themselves with Paul and Silas; of the devout Greeks, a great multitude, and of the chief women, not a few.
But the unbelieving Jews, taking with them some evil men, who were loungers about the markets, and collecting a mob, set the city in an uproar; and having assaulted the house of Jason, they sought to bring them out to the people.
But not finding them, they dragged Jason and certain brethren before the rulers of the city, crying out: These men, who have thrown the world into confusion, have come hither also;
whom Jason has received into his house: and they all act in opposition to the decrees of Cæsar, saying, That there is another king, Jesus.
And the multitude, and the rulers of the city, were troubled when they heard these things.
And they took security of Jason, and of the others, and let them go.
And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night to Berea; and when they had come, they went into the synagogue of the Jews.
These were of a better disposition than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with all readiness of mind, examining the Scriptures daily, whether these things were so.
Therefore, many of them believed; both of influential women, who were Greeks, and of men, not a few.
But when the Jews of Thessalonica learned that the word of God was preached by Paul in Berea also, they came thither, and excited the multitude.
Then the brethren immediately sent Paul away, to go as if to the sea; but Silas and Timothy remained there.
And those who conducted Paul brought him to Athens: and having received a commandment for Silas and Timothy, that they should come to him as soon as possible, they departed.
Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred within him, when he saw the city full of idols.
Accordingly, he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and devout persons, and in the market daily, with those who chanced to meet him.
And some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers disputed with him; and some said: What can this babbler possibly wish to say? Others said: He seems to be a proclaimer of strange demons: for he preached to them Jesus and the Resurrection.
And they took him, and brought him to Mars hill, saying: Are we able to understand what this new teaching is, which is announced by you?
For you bring some strange things to our ears: we wish to understand then what these things mean.
For all the Athenians and resident strangers have leisure for nothing else than to tell or to hear some new thing.
Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars hill, and said: Men of Athens, I perceive that in all respects your reverence for demons excels that of other men.
For as I was passing through, and looking attentively at the objects of your worship, I dis covered also an altar with this inscription: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore you ignorantly worship, him I make known to you.
God, who made the world, and all things that are in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, dwells not in temples made with hands;
nor is he ministered to by the hands of men, as if he needed any thing: for he himself gives to all life, and breath, and all things:
and he has made from one blood every nation of men, that they might dwell on all the face of the earth, having marked out their appointed times, and the bounds of their dwelling:
that they might seek for God, if perhaps they would feel after him, and find him, although, indeed, he is not far from every one of us.
For in him we live, and move, and have our being: as also some of your own poets have said: For we his offspring are.
Therefore, being the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhood is like gold, or silver, or stone, sculptured by art and the device of man.
Yet the times of this ignorance God overlooked; but now, he commands all men everywhere to repent:
because he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world, in righteousness, by the man whom he has chosen, giving to all assurance of this, by having raised him from the dead.
And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked; others said: We will hear you again concerning this matter.
And so Paul departed from among them.
But certain men associated with him, and believed; among whom was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.