But, if a peace-offering, be his oblation, if, of the herd, he himself, be bringing near,—whether male or female, without defect, shall he bring it near before Yahweh.
Then shall he lean his hand upon the head of his oblation, and slay it at the entrance of the tent of meeting,—and the sons of Aaron the priests shall dash the blood against the altar round about,
Then shall he bring near out of the peace-offering, an altar-flame unto Yahweh,—the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards;
and the two kidneys, and the fat which is upon them, which is upon the loins,—and the caul upon the liver, upon the kidneys, shall he remove it.
Then shall the sons of Aaron make thereof a perfume at the altar, upon the ascending-sacrifice which is on the wood, which is on the fire,—an altar-flame of a satisfying odour unto Yahweh.
But, if out of the flock, be his oblation for a peace-offering unto Yahweh, whether male or female—without defect, shall he bring it near.
If a young sheep, he himself, be bringing near as his oblation, then shall he bring it near, before Yahweh.
And he shall lean his hand upon the head of his oblation, and shall slay it before the tent of meeting,—and the sons of Aaron shall dash the blood thereof against the altar round about.
Then shall he bring near out of the peace-offering, an altar-flame unto Yahweh, the fat thereof the fat-tail thereof entire close to the backbone, shall he remove it,—and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards;
and the two kidneys, with the fat that is on them, which is on the loins,—and the caul that is on the liver, on the kidneys, shall he remove it.
Then shall the priest make a perfume, at the altar,—the food of an altar-flame, unto Yahweh.
But if a goat, be his oblation, then shall he bring it near, before Yahweh.
And he shall lean his hand upon its head, and shall slay it before the tent of meeting,—and the sons of Aaron shall dash its blood against the altar, round about.
Then shall he bring near therefrom as his oblation an altar-flame unto Yahweh,—the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards;
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them which is on the loins,—the caul upon the liver, on the kidneys, shall he remove it.
Then shall the priest make a perfume at the altar,—the food of an altar-flame for a satisfying odour,—all the fat—unto Yahweh.
An age-abiding statute to your generations, in all your dwellings,—none of the fat nor of the blood, shall ye eat.