Having spoken these words, Jesus went out with His disciples over the winter stream Kidron, where there was a garden. He and His disciples entered into it.
And Judas who betrayed Him also knew the place. For Jesus oftentimes went there with His disciples.
Then Judas, having received a band and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
Then Jesus, knowing all things that were coming upon Him, went out and said to them, Whom do you seek?
They answered Him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I AM! And Judas who betrayed Him also stood with them.
Then as soon as He had said to them, I AM, they went backward and fell to the ground.
Then He asked them again, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus answered, I have told you that I AM. Therefore if you seek Me, let these go away;
(that the word might be fulfilled which He spoke, " Of those whom You have given Me, I have lost not one of them").
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. And the servant's name was Malchus.
Then Jesus said to Peter, Put up your sword into the sheath. The cup which My Father has given Me, shall I not drink it?
Then the band, and the captain, and under-officers of the Jews together seized Jesus and bound Him.
And they led Him away to Annas first, for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year.
And Caiaphas was he who gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
And Simon Peter and another disciple followed Jesus. That disciple was known to the high priest, and he went in with Jesus into the court of the high priest.
But Peter stood at the door outside. Then the other disciple went out, the one who was known to the high priest, and spoke to her who kept the door and brought Peter in.
Then the girl who kept the door said to Peter, Are you not also one of this man's disciples? He said, I am not.
And the servants and officers who had made a fire of coals stood there, for it was cold. And they warmed themselves. And Peter stood with them and warmed himself.
Then the high priest asked Jesus of His disciples and of His teaching.
Jesus answered him, I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where the Jews always resort, and I have said nothing in secret.
Why do you ask Me? Ask those who heard me what I have said to them. Behold, they know what I said.
And when He had spoken this way, one of the officers who stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Do you answer the high priest so?
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil; but if well, why do you strike Me?
Then Annas had sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. Then they said to him, Are you not also one of his disciples? He denied and said, I am not.
One of the servants of the high priest, being kinsman to him whose ear Peter cut off, said, Did I not see you in the garden with him?
Peter then denied again. And immediately a cock crowed.
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium. And it was early. And they did not go into the praetorium, that they should not be defiled, and that they might eat the Passover.
Then Pilate went out to them and said, What charge do you bring against this man?
They answered and said to him, If he were not an evildoer, then we would not have delivered him up to you.
Then Pilate said to them, You take him and judge him according to your law. Then the Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death
(that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled, which He spoke signifying what death He was about to die).
Then Pilate entered into the praetorium again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Do you say this thing of yourself, or did others say it to you about Me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you to me. What have you done?
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, then My servants would fight so that I might not be delivered to the Jews. But now My kingdom is not from here.
Pilate then said to Him, Are you a king then? Jesus answered, You say it that I am a king. To this end I was born, and for this cause I came into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice.
Pilate said to Him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them, I find no fault in him.
But you have a custom that I should release one to you at the Passover. Then do you desire that I release to you the king of the Jews?
Then they all cried again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas! But Barabbas was a robber.