At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus
and said to his servants, This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead, and therefore the powerful works are working in him.
For Herod had laid hold on John, and had bound him, and had put him in prison because of Herodias his brother Philip's wife.
For John said to him, It is not lawful for you to have her.
And when he desired to put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet.
But when Herod's birthday was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod.
So he promised with an oath to give her whatever she would ask.
And she, being instructed before by her mother, said, Give me John the Baptist's head here on a platter.
And the king was sorry. But for the oath's sake, and those reclining with him, he commanded it to be given.
And he sent and beheaded John in the prison.
And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl. And she brought it to her mother.
And his disciples came and took up the body and buried it, and went and told Jesus.
When Jesus heard, He departed from there by boat into a deserted place apart. And hearing, the crowds followed Him on foot out of the cities.
And Jesus went out and saw a great crowd, and He was moved with compassion toward them. And He healed their sick.
And evening coming on, His disciples came to Him, saying, The place is deserted and the time has already gone by. Send the crowd away so that they may go into the villages and buy food for themselves.
But Jesus said to them, They do not need to leave, you give them something to eat.
And they said to Him, We have here only five loaves and two fish.
And He said, Bring them here to Me.
And He commanded the crowd to recline on the grass. And He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to Heaven He blessed and broke, and gave the loaves to His disciples. And the disciples gave to the crowd.
And they all ate and were filled. And they took up twelve hand baskets full from the fragments that remained.
And they who had eaten were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
And immediately Jesus constrained His disciples to get into a boat and to go before Him to the other side, while He sent the crowds away.
And when He had sent the crowds away, He went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when evening had come, He was there alone.
But the boat was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves; for the wind was against them.
And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea.
And when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a phantom! And they cried out for fear.
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Be of good cheer, I AM! Do not fear.
And Peter answered Him and said, LORD, if it is You, tell me to come to You on the water.
And He said, Come. And when Peter had come down out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Jesus.
But seeing that the wind was strong, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me!
And immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and caught him; and said to him, Little-faith! Why did you doubt?
And when they had come into the boat, the wind ceased.
And those in the boat came and worshiped Him, saying, Truly You are the Son of God.
And when they had passed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret.
And recognizing Him, the men of that place sent to all that neighborhood, and brought to Him all who were diseased.
And they begged Him that they might only touch the hem of His robe. And as many as touched were made perfectly whole.