Bless the LORD, O my soul! O LORD, my God! thou art very great! Thou art clothed with glory and majesty!
He covereth himself with light as with a garment; He spreadeth out the heavens like a curtain;
He layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters; He maketh the clouds his chariot; He rideth upon the wings of the wind.
He maketh the winds his messengers, The flaming lightnings his ministers.
He established the earth on its foundations; It shall not be removed for ever.
Thou didst cover it with the deep as with a garment; The waters stood above the mountains!
At thy rebuke they fled; At the voice of thy thunder they hasted away.
The mountains rose, the valleys sank, In the place which thou didst appoint for them.
Thou hast established a bound which the waters may not pass, That they may not return, and cover the earth.
He sendeth forth the springs in brooks; They run among the mountains;
They give drink to all the beasts of the forest; In them the wild asses quench their thirst.
About them the birds of heaven have their habitation; They sing among the branches.
He watereth the hills from his chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works!
He causeth grass to spring up for cattle, And herbage for the service of man, To bring forth food out of the earth,
And wine that gladdeneth the heart of man, Making his face to shine more than oil, And bread that strengtheneth man’s heart.
The trees of the LORD are full of sap, The cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted;
There the birds build their nests; In the cypresses the stork hath her abode.
The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats, And the rocks for the conies.
He appointed the moon to mark seasons; The sun knoweth when to go down.
Thou makest darkness, and it is night, When all the beasts of the forest go forth!
The young lions roar for prey, And seek their food from God.
When the sun ariseth, they withdraw themselves, And lie down in their dens.
Man goeth forth to his work, And to his labor, until the evening.
O LORD! how manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them all! The earth is full of thy riches!
Lo! this great and wide sea! In it are moving creatures without number, Animals small and great.
There go the ships; There is the leviathan, which thou hast made to play therein.
All these wait on thee To give them their food in due season.
Thou givest it to them, they gather it; Thou openest thine hand, they are satisfied with good.
Thou hidest thy face, they are confounded; Thou takest away their breath, they die, And return to the dust.
Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created, And thou renewest the face of the earth.
The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever; The LORD shall rejoice in his works;
He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; He toucheth the hills, and they smoke.
I will sing to the LORD as long as I live, I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
May my meditation be acceptable to him! I will rejoice in the LORD.
May sinners perish from the earth, And the wicked be no more! Bless the LORD, O my soul! Praise ye the LORD!