But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need for it to be written.
For you yourselves know accurately the day of the Lord comes as a thief in the night.
For when they say, Peace and safety! Then suddenly destruction comes upon them, like travail to the pregnant woman, and they shall not at all escape.
But you, brothers, are not in darkness, that the Day should overtake you as a thief.
You are all sons of light and sons of day; we are not of night, nor of darkness.
So then, we should not sleep, as the rest also do, but we should watch and be sober.
For those sleeping sleep by night, and those having been drunk are drunk by night.
But we being of day should be sober, "having put on the breastplate" of faith and love, and the hope of "salvation as a helmet;" Isa. 59:17
because God has not appointed us to wrath, but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
He dying on our behalf, so that whether we watch or we sleep, we may live together with Him.
Therefore, encourage one another, and build up one another, as you indeed do.
But, brothers, we entreat you to know those laboring among you, and taking the lead of you in the Lord, and warning you,
even esteem them most exceedingly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
And we exhort you, brothers to warn the disobedient ones, comfort those that are fainthearted, sustain the weak, be long-suffering towards all.
See that no one returns evil for evil to anyone, but always pursue the good, both towards one another and towards all.
Rejoice always.
Pray without ceasing.
In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus toward you.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not despise prophecies.
Test all things, hold fast to the good.
Keep back from every appearance of evil.
And may the God of peace Himself fully sanctify you, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
He who calls you is faithful, who also will perform it .
Brothers, pray concerning us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I charge you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the holy brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.