Paul, a bondman of Jesus Christ, a called apostle having been separated for the good news of God
(which he fore-promised through his prophets in the holy scriptures)
concerning his Son who was made from the seed of David according to flesh.
He who was designated Son of God in power, according to a spirit of holiness, from a resurrection of the dead-Jesus Christ our Lord-
through whom we received grace and apostleship for obedience of faith among all the nations on behalf of his name,
among which ye also are the called of Jesus Christ.
To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, to the called, to the sanctified: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
First, I indeed express thanks to my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, that your faith is proclaimed in the whole world.
For God is my witness whom I serve in my spirit in the good news of his Son, how unceasingly I make mention of you always in my prayers,
pleading, if somehow now at last I will have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come to you.
For I long to see you, so that I may impart some spiritual gift to you, in order to establish you,
and that is, to be mutually encouraged among you through each other's faith, both yours and mine.
But I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that I often intended to come to you (and was prevented until now), so that I might have some fruit also among you, even as among the other Gentiles.
I am debtor both to Greeks and to Barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish.
So the willingness is in me to preach the good news also to you in Rome.
For I am not ashamed of the good news of Christ, for it is the power of God for salvation to every man who believes, both to the Jew first, and to the Greek.
For the righteousness of God is revealed in it from faith for faith, just as it is written, And the righteous man will live from faith.
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all irreverence and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth in unrighteousness,
because what is knowable of God is apparent in them, for God made it known to them.
For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things made, both his eternal power and divinity, for them to be without excuse.
Because, although knowing God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were they thankful, but became vain in their reasonings and their heart was darkened without understanding.
Professing to be wise, they became foolish,
and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image like corruptible man, and of birds, and four-footed things, and creeping things.
And for this reason God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, to degrade their bodies among themselves,
who changed the truth of God into the lie, and worshiped and served the creation against him who created it, who is blessed into the ages. Truly.
Because of this God gave them up to shameful passions, for even their females changed the natural use into what is against nature.
And likewise also the males, having left the natural use of the female, burned in their lust toward each other, males with males producing shamelessness, and receiving in themselves the recompense of their deviancy that was fitting.
And just as they did not approve having God in knowledge, God gave them over to an unfit mind, to do things that are not fit;
having been filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, greed, evil; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malignity;
being gossips, slanderous, God-hating, aggressors, arrogant boasters, contrivers of evil things, disobedient to parents;
without understanding, untrustworthy, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful.
Who, knowing the righteousness of God, that those who commit such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also favor those who do.