Now the principal thing among those of which we are speaking is this: We have such a high-priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens;
a minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man.
For every high-priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; whence it is necessary that this one also have something which he may offer.
For if, indeed, he were on earth, he would not be a priest, since there are those that offer the gifts according to the Law;
who serve the mere delineation and shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses was admonished by God when he was about to make the tabernacle; for, "See," saith he, "that thou make all things according to the pattern which was shown thee in the mount."
But now he hath obtained a more excellent ministry, in proportion as he is the mediator of a better covenant, which hath been established upon better promises.
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then a place would not have been sought for a second.
For finding fault with them, he saith: "Behold, the days are coming, saith the Lord, when I will make with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah a new covenant;
not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers, in the day when I took them by the hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord: I will put my laws into their mind, and on their hearts will I write them; and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people.
And they shall not teach every one his fellow-citizen, and every one his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.
For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more."
In that he saith, "a new covenant," he hath made the first old; but that which is becoming old, and worn out with age, is ready to vanish away.