O foolish Galatians, who bewitched you not to obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was earlier described among you, crucified?
I only want to learn this from you. Did ye receive the Spirit from works of law, or from a listening ear of faith?
Are ye so foolish, having begun in Spirit, are ye now made perfect by flesh?
Did ye suffer so many things in vain? If it is indeed in vain.
He therefore who supplies the Spirit to you and who works miracles among you, is it from works of law or from a listening ear of faith?
Just as Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him for righteousness.
Ye know therefore that those from faith, these are sons of Abraham.
And the scripture having foreseen that God makes the Gentiles righteous from faith, proclaimed the good news in advance to Abraham: In thee all the nations will be blessed.
So then those from faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham.
For as many as are from works of law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed is every man who does not continue in all things written in the book of the law, to do them.
But that no man is made righteous by law before God, is evident, because, The righteous man will live from faith.
And the law is not from faith, but the man who does them will live in them.
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is every man who hangs on a tree.
So that the blessing of Abraham might occur for the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, so that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through the faith.
Brothers (I speak according to a man), in the same way of a man, no man annuls or adds to a contract that has been ratified.
Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say, And to the seeds, as of many, but as of one, And to thy seed, who is Christ.
And I say this, a covenant previously confirmed by God in Christ, the law, which happened four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul in order to make the promise useless.
For if the inheritance is from law, it is no longer from promise. But God has given it to Abraham through promise.
Why then the law? It was added on account of transgressions, until the seed would come to whom it was promised, which was arranged through agents in the hand of a mediator.
Now a mediator is not of one, but God is one.
Is the law therefore against the promises of God? May it not happen! For if a law was given that could make alive, truly righteousness would be from law.
But scripture confined all things under sin, so that the promise from faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
But before faith came we were kept in custody under law, having been confined for faith that was going to be revealed.
So that the law became our schoolmaster for Christ, so that we might be made righteous from faith.
But faith having come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.
For ye are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For as many as were immersed into Christ have put on Christ.
There is no Jew nor Greek, there is no bondman nor freeman, there is no male and female, for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if ye are Christ's, then ye are Abraham's seed and heirs according to promise.