Hear this, house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel and came out from the waters of Judah, who swear by the name of Yahweh, and ⌞invoke⌟ the God of Israel, but not in truth and not in righteousness.
For they call themselves ⌞after the holy city⌟, and they lean on the God of Israel— Yahweh of hosts is his name.
“I declared the former things from ⌞of old⌟, and they went out from my mouth. And I ⌞announced⌟ them suddenly; I acted, and they came to pass,
because ⌞I know⌟ that you are obstinate, and your neck an iron sinew, and your forehead bronze.
And I declared them to you from of old; I ⌞ announced⌟ them to you before they came to pass so that you would not say, ‘My idol did them, and my image and my cast image commanded them.’
You have heard; see it all. And will you not declare it? I ⌞announce⌟ new things to you from this time and hidden things that you have not known.
Now they are created, and not from ⌞of old⌟, and before today, and you have not heard them so that you could not say, “Look! I knew them.”
Neither have you heard, nor have you known, nor from ⌞of old⌟ has your ear been opened. For I knew you would deal treacherously, very treacherously, and you are called a rebel from the womb.
For the sake of my name I ⌞refrain from⌟ my anger, and for my praise I restrain it for you so as not to cut you off.
Look! I have refined you, but not like silver; I have chosen you in the furnace of misery.
For my own sake, for my own sake I do it; for why should it be defiled? And I will not give my glory to another.”
“Listen to me, Jacob, and Israel, ⌞whom I called⌟: I am he. I am the first; also I am the last.
Indeed, my hand founded the earth, and my right hand spread out the heavens; when I summon them, they stand in position together.
Assemble, all of you, and hear! Who among them declared these things? Yahweh loves him; he shall perform his wish against Babylon and his arm against ⌞the Chaldeans⌟.
I, I myself, I have spoken! Indeed, I have called him. I have brought him, and he will be successful in his way.
Draw near to me; hear this! I have not spoken in secrecy from the ⌞beginning⌟; from the time ⌞it came to be⌟, there I have been; And now the Lord Yahweh has sent me and his Spirit.”
Thus says Yahweh, your redeemer, the holy one of Israel:   “I am Yahweh your God, ⌞who teaches⌟ you to profit, leads you in the way you should go.
O that you had listened attentively to my commandments!   Then your prosperity would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea.
And your offspring would have been like the sand, and the descendants of your ⌞body⌟ like its grains. It would not be cut off, and its name would not be destroyed from my presence.”
Go out from Babylon! Flee from Chaldea! Proclaim it with a shout of rejoicing; proclaim this! ⌞Send it forth⌟ to the end of the earth; say, “Yahweh has redeemed his servant Jacob!”
And when he led them through the deserts, they were not thirsty; he made water flow from the rock for them, and he split the rock, and the water gushed out.
“There is no peace,” says Yahweh, “for the wicked.”