Rejoice not, O Israel, unto exultation, like the peoples, for thou hast gone astray from thy G-d, thou hast loved a harlot's hire upon every corn-floor.
The threshing-floor and the wine-press shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail her.
They shall not dwell in HaShem'S land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
They shall not pour out wine-offerings to HaShem, neither shall they be pleasing unto Him; their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners, all that eat thereof shall be polluted; for their bread shall be for their appetite, it shall not come into the house of HaShem.
What will ye do in the day of the appointed season, and in the day of the feast of HaShem?
For, lo, they are gone away from destruction, yet Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; their precious treasures of silver, nettles shall possess them, thorns shall be in their tents.
The days of visitation are come, the days of recompense are come, Israel shall know it. The prophet is a fool, the man of the spirit is mad! For the multitude of thine iniquity, the enmity is great.
Ephraim is a watchman with my G-d; as for the prophet, a fowler's snare is in all his ways, and enmity in the house of his G-d.
They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah; He will remember their iniquity, He will punish their sins.
I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness, I saw your fathers as the first-ripe in the fig-tree at her first season; but so soon as they came to Baal-peor, they separated themselves unto the shameful thing, and became detestable like that which they loved.
As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird; there shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception.
Yea, though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, that there be not a man left; yea, woe also to them when I depart from them!
Ephraim, like as I have seen Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place; but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the slayer.
Give them, O HaShem, whatsoever Thou wilt give; give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
All their wickedness is in Gilgal, for there I hated them; because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of My house; I will love them no more, all their princes are rebellious.
Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit; yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay the beloved fruit of their womb.
My G-d will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto Him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations.