Now, the man, having come to know Eve his wife,—she conceived and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a Man, even Yahweh!
And she went on to bear his brother, Abel,—and Abel became a feeder of sheep, whereas Cain, was a tiller of the round.
So it came to pass, after certain days, that Cain brought in of the fruit of the ground, a present to Yahweh:
Abel, also, even, he, brought in of the firstlings of his sheep, and of their fat, and Yahweh approved of Abel and of his present;
but of Cain and his present, he approved not,—and it angered Cain greatly, and his countenance fell.
So then Yahweh said unto Cain,—Wherefore hath it angered thee, and wherefore hath thy countenance fallen?
Shall it not, if thou do right, be lifted up? But if thou do not right, at the entrance a sin-bearer is lying,—Unto thee, moreover, shall be his longing, though, thou, rule over him.
And Cain said unto Abel his brother Let us go into the field And it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.
Then said Yahweh unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said I know not, the keeper of my brother, am, I?
And he said, What hast thou done? With a voice, the shed-blood of thy brother is crying out to me from the ground,
Now therefore, accursed, art thou,—from the ground which hath opened her mouth, to receive the shed-blood of thy brother at thy hand.
Though thou till the ground, it shall not go on to give its vigour to thee. A wanderer and a fugitive, shalt thou be in the earth.
And Cain said unto Yahweh—Greater is my punishment than I can bear.
Lo! thou has driven me out, this day, from off the face of the ground And from thy face, shall I be hid, So shall I become a wanderer and a fugitive in the earth. And it shall come to pass, whosoever findeth me, will slay me.
And Yahweh said to him—Not so, whosoever slayeth Cain seven—fold, shall it be avenged. So Yahweh set, for Cain, a sign, that none finding him should smite him.
So Cain went forth from the presence of Yahweh,—and dwelt in the land of Nod, eastward of Eden.
And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived, and bare Enoch,—Now it happened that he was building a city, so he called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.
And there was born to Enoch Irad, and, Irad, begat Mehujael,—and Mehujael, begat Methusael,—and Methusael, begat Lamech.
And Lamech took to himself two wives,—the name of the one, was Adah, and, the name of the second Zillah.
And Adah bare Jabal,—he, was father of such as dwell in tents, and have cattle;
and, the name of his brother, was Jubal,—he, was father of everyone handling lyre and flute,
And, as for Zillah, she also, bare Tubal-Cain, a sharpener of every cutting instrument of bronze and iron,—and, the sister of Tubal-Cain, was Naamah.
Then said Lamech to his wives, Adah and Zillah! hear ye my voice, Ye wives of Lamech! give ear to my tale, For a man, have I slain in dealing my wounds, Yea, a youth, in smiting my blows:
If, sevenfold, be, the avenging of Cain, Then, of Lamech, seventy and seven.
And Adam again knew his wife, and she bare a son, and called his name Seth,—For God hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, because Cain slew him!
And to Seth—to him also, was born a son, and he called his name Enosh,—then, was a beginning made, to call on the name of Yahweh.