Now a summary over the things being said: We have such a High Priest, who sat down on the right of the throne of the Majesty in Heaven, Psa. 110:1
Minister of the Holy of Holies, and of the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched, and not man.
For every high priest is set in place to offer both gifts and sacrifices; from which it is necessary for this One also to have something which He may offer.
For if indeed He were on earth, He would not even be a priest, there being those priests offering gifts according to the Law,
who serve the pattern of and shadow of heavenly things, even as Moses was divinely warned, being about to make the tabernacle: For He says, "See that you make all things according to the pattern shown to you in the mount."  Ex. 25:40
But now He has gotten a more excellent ministry, also by so much as He is a Mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted on better promises.
For if that first was faultless, place would not have been sought for a second.
For finding fault, He said to them, "Behold, days are coming, says the Lord, and I will make an end on the house of Israel and on the house of Judah; a new covenant shall be ,
not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day of My taking hold of their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not continue in My covenant, and I did not regard them, says  the Lord.
Because this is the covenant which I will covenant with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord, giving My laws into their mind, and I will write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be My people."
"And they shall no more teach each one his neighbor, and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord; because all shall know Me, from the least of them to their great ones.
For I will be merciful to their unrighteousnesses, and I will not at all remember their sins and their lawless deeds." LXX-Jer. 38:31-34; MT-Jer. 31:31-34
In the saying, New, He has made the first old. And the thing having been made old and growing aged is near disappearing.