And after these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for he did not want to walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him.
Now the feast of the Jews, the feast of tabernacles, was near.
His brothers therefore said to him, Depart from here, and go into Judea so that thy disciples also may see thy works that thou do.
For no man does anything in secret, and he himself seeks to be in public. If thou do these things, show thyself to the world.
For not even his brothers believed in him.
Jesus therefore says to them, My time is not yet here, but your time is always ready.
The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it, that its works are evil.
Go ye up to this feast. I am not yet going to this feast, because my time is not yet fulfilled.
And having said these things to them, he remained in Galilee.
But when his brothers went up, then he also went up to the feast, not openly, but as in private.
The Jews therefore sought him at the feast, and said, Where is that man?
And there was much murmuring among the multitudes about him. Some said, He is a good man, others said, No, but he leads the multitude astray.
Yet no man spoke openly about him because of fear of the Jews.
And when it was now in the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught.
The Jews therefore marveled, saying, How does this man know scholarly material, not having learned?
Jesus therefore answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his who sent me.
If any man wants to do his will, he will know about the doctrine, whether it is from God, or I speak from myself.
He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of him who sent him, this man is true, and unrighteousness is not in him.
Did not Moses give you the law, and none of you does the law? Why do ye seek to kill me?
The multitude answered and said, Thou have a demon. Who seeks to kill thee?
Jesus answered and said to them, I did one work, and ye all marvel because of this.
Moses has given you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and ye circumcise a man on a sabbath.
If a man receives circumcision on a sabbath, so that the law of Moses may not be loosed, are ye angry with me because I made a man entirely well on a sabbath?
Judge not according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment.
Therefore some of the Jerusalemites said, Is not this he whom they seek to kill?
And lo, he speaks in public, and they say nothing to him. Perhaps the rulers really know that this really is the Christ?
However we know this man, where he is from, but when the Christ comes, no man knows where he is from.
Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, Ye both know me, and know where I am from? And I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom ye know not.
I know him, because I am from him, and he sent me.
They sought therefore to seize him, and yet no man laid a hand on him because his hour had not yet come.
But many from the crowd believed in him, and they said, When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than these that this man did?
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent subordinates so that they might take him.
Jesus therefore said, Yet a little time I am with you, and then I go to him who sent me.
Ye will seek me, and will not find me, and where I am, ye cannot come.
The Jews therefore said among themselves, Where is this man going to go that we will not find him? Is he going to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks?
What is this word that he said, Ye will seek me, and will not find me, and, Where I am, ye cannot come?
Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus had stood and cried out, saying, If any man thirsts, let him come to me and drink.
He who believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly will flow rivers of living water.
But he spoke this about the Spirit that those who believe in him were going to receive, for the Holy Spirit was not yet, because Jesus was not yet glorified.
Many from the multitude therefore, when they heard the saying, said, This is truly the prophet.
Others said, This is the Christ. Others said, For does the Christ come out of Galilee?
Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?
So there became a division among the multitude because of him.
And some of them wanted to take him, but no man laid hands on him.
The subordinates therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees. And those men said to them, Why did ye not bring him?
The subordinates answered, A man never so spoke like this man.
The Pharisees therefore answered them, Have ye not also been led astray?
Have any of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees?
But this multitude that does not know the law are accursed.
Nicodemus says to them (he who came to him by night, being one of them),
Does our law judge a man, unless it first may hear from himself and know what he does?
They answered and said to him, Are thou also from Galilee? Search and see, that out of Galilee arises no prophet.
And each man went to his house.