And it came to pass at the end of two years of days, that, Pharaoh, was dreaming, when lo! he was standing by the river (Nile);
and lo! from the river, were coming up seven heifers, comely in appearance and fat in flesh,—and they fed among the rushes.
And lo! seven heifers more coming up after them out of the river, uncomely in appearance and lean in flesh,—and they came and stood beside the heifers, by the lip of the river.
Then did the heifers that were uncomely in appearance, and lean in flesh, eat up, the seven heifers that were comely in appearance and fat. So Pharaoh awoke.
And he fell asleep, and dreamed a second time, when lo! seven ears, coming up on one stalk fat and good;
and lo! seven ears, lean and shrivelled by an east wind, coming up after them.
Then did the lean ears swallow up the seven fat and full ears. So Pharaoh awoke and lo! it was a dream.
And it came to pass in the morning, that his spirit became restless, so he sent and called for all the sacred scribes of Egypt and all her wise men,—and Pharaoh related to them his dreams, but there was no one that could interpret them. to Pharaoh.
Then spake the chief of the butlers with Pharaoh saying, My faults, would, I, mention this day.
Pharaoh, was wroth with his servants,—and put them in the ward of the house of the chief of the royal executioners, me, and the chief of the bakers.
Then must we needs dream, a dream in one night, I and he,—each man, according to the interpretation of his dream, did we dream.
And, there with us, was a young man, a Hebrew servant to the chief of the royal executioners, and we related to him, and he interpreted to us our dreams,—to each man—according to his dream, did he interpret,
And it came to pass as he interpreted to us, so, it happened,—me, he restored to mine office but him, he hanged.
Then sent Pharaoh and summoned Joseph, and they hastened him out of the dungeon,—so he shaved himself and changed his garments, and came in unto Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, A dream, have I dreamed, but none can interpret it,—but, I, have heard say concerning thee, that on hearing a dream, thou canst interpret it.
And Joseph answered Pharaoh saying, Not to me, doth it pertain! May, God grant in answer, the prosperity of Pharaoh!
Then spake Pharaoh unto Joseph,—In my dream, there was I, standing on the lip of the river;
When lo! out of the river, were coming up seven heifers, fat in flesh and comely in form,—and they fed among the rushes.
And lo! seven other heifers, coming up after them, poor and very uncomely in form and lean in flesh,—I had never seen such in all the land of Egypt, for uncomeliness.
Then did the lean and uncomely heifers eat up the first seven fat heifers;
and they passed into their stomach yet could it not be known that they had passed into them, their appearance, being uncomely, as at the beginning. So I awoke.
Then looked I in my dream,—And lo! seven ears, coming up on one stalk, full and good;
And lo! seven ears, withered lean shrivelled by an east wind growing up after them.
Then did the lean ears swallow up, the seven good ears. So I told [these things] unto the sacred scribes, but there was none that could explain [them] to me.
Then said Joseph unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh, is, one. What God is about to do hath he announced to Pharaoh.
The seven good heifers, are, seven years, and, the seven good ears are, seven years,—the dream, is, one.
And the seven lean and uncomely heifers that were coming up after them, are seven years, and the seven lean ears, shrivelled by an east wind, will turn out to be—seven years of famine.
The very word that I spake unto Pharaoh, what, God, is about to do, hath he showed unto Pharaoh.
Lo! seven years, coming in,—of great plenty, in all the land of Egypt.
Then shall arise seven years of famine, after them, so shall be forgotten all the plenty in the land of Egypt,—and the famine shall consume the land;
neither shall the plenty in the land be discernible, because of that famine coming after,—for it shall be, very severe.
And for that there was a repeating of the dream unto Pharaoh, twice, it is because the thing, is established, from God, and God is hastening to do it.
Now, therefore, let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise,—and set him over the land of Egypt.
Let Pharaoh do this, that he may appoint overseers over the land,—so shall he take up a fifth of the land of Egypt, during the seven years of plenty.
And let them gather up all the food of these seven good years that are coming in,—and let them heap up corn under the hand of Pharaoh as food in cities so shall they keep it.
So shall the food become a store for the land, for the seven years of famine which shall come about in the land of Egypt,—and the land shall not be cut off in the famine.
And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh,—and in the eyes of all his servants;
and Pharaoh said unto his servants,—Can we find such a one, a man in whom is the Spirit of God?
So Pharaoh said unto Joseph, After God hath made known unto thee all this, there is no one discreet and wise like thee.
Thou, shalt be over my house, and on thy mouth, shall all my people kiss,—only as to the throne, will I be greater than thou.
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph,—See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt.
So Pharaoh took his ring from off his hand and put it upon Joseph’s hand,—and clothed him in garments of fine linen, and put the chain of gold upon his neck;
and made him ride in the second chariot which belonged to him, and they cried out before him. Bow the knee! thus setting him over all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph. I, am Pharaoh, Without thee, therefore shall no man raise his hand or his foot in all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh called Joseph’s name Zaphenath-paneah, and gave him Asenath daughter of Poti-phera priest of On, to wife,—and Joseph went forth over the land of Egypt.
Now, Joseph, was thirty years old, when he took his station, before Pharaoh king of Egypt. So Joseph went forth from before Pharaoh, and passed along through all the land of Egypt.
And the land produced, in the seven years of plenty, by handfuls,
And he gathered up all the food of the seven years in which there was plenty in the land of Egypt, and laid up food in cities—the food of the fields of the city. which were round about it, laid he up within it.
Thus did Joseph heap up corn like the sand of the sea making it exceeding abundant,—until one hath left off reckoning, because it cannot be reckoned.
Now to Joseph, were born two sons, ere yet came in the year of famine,—whom Asenath daughter of Poti-phera priest of On, bare to him.
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh,—For God hath made me forget all my trouble, and all the house of my father.
And, the name of the second, called he Ephraim, For God hath made me fruitful in the land of my humiliation.
Then came to an end the seven years of the plenty,—which was in the land of Egypt;
and the seven years of famine began to come in, according as Joseph had said,—and it came to pass that there was a famine in all the lands, but in all the land of Egypt, there was bread.
Yet was famine felt in all the land of Egypt, and the people made outcry; unto Pharaoh for bread,—and Pharaoh said to all Egypt,—Go ye unto Joseph, that which he saith to you, shall ye do.
Now, the famine, was over all the face of the land,—so Joseph opened all [places] wherein it was and sold corn to the Egyptians, and the famine laid fast hold of the land of Egypt.
All the earth also, came in to Egypt to buy corn, unto Joseph,—because the famine had laid fast hold on all the earth.