And he made an altar of bronze, twenty cubits, the length thereof, and, twenty cubits, the breadth thereof,—and, ten cubits, the height thereof.
And he made a molten sea,—ten—by the cubit, from the one brim thereof into the other brim thereof, it was round all about, and, five—by the cubit, was the height thereof, and, a line—of thirty by the cubit, did compass it round about.
And, the likeness of oxen, was under it round about on every side, encircling it, ten in a cubit, going round the sea, on every side,-two rows of oxen, made in the casting.
It was standing on twelve oxen, three, looking toward the north, and, three, looking toward the west, and, three, looking toward the south, and, three, looking toward the east, the sea, being upon them above,—and, all their hinder parts, inward.
And, the thickness thereof, was a hand-breadth, and, the brim thereof, was like the brim-work of a cup, with blossoms of lilies,—it could hold [many] baths, three thousand, would it contain.
And he made ten lavers, and set five on the right hand—and five on the left, to bathe therein, what is offered as an ascending-sacrifice, do they rinse therein,—but, the sea, was, that the priests should bathe therein.
And he made ten lampstands of gold according to the regulation thereof,—and set in the temple, five, on the right hand, and, five, on the left.
And he made ten tables, and placed in the temple, five, on the right hand, and, five, on the left,—and he made a hundred tossing bowls of gold.
And he made the court of the priests, and the large enclosure,—and doors to the enclosure, and, the doors thereof, overlaid he with bronze.
And, the sea, he set on the right side of the house, eastward over against the south.
And Huram made—the pans, and the shovels, and the tossing bowls,—and Huram finished doing the work, which he did for King Solomon, in the house of God:—
two pillars, and the bowls and the capitals on the top of the two pillars, and the two frames of checker work, to cover the two bowls of the capitals, which were on the top of the pillars;
and four hundred pomegranates, for the two frames,-two rows of pomegranates, for each frame, for covering the two bowls of the capitals, which were on the face of the pillars;
and, the stands, made he,—and, the lavers, made he upon the stands;
the one sea,—and the twelve oxen under it;
and, the pans and the shovels and the flesh-hooks, and all the vessels, made Huram his father for King Solomon, for the house of Yahweh,—of burnished bronze,
In the circuit of the Jordan, did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah.
So Solomon made all these utensils, in great abundance,—for the weight of the bronze could not be searched out.
Yea Solomon made all the utensils which were for the house of God,—and the altar of gold, and the tables, whereon was the Presence-bread;
and the lamp-holders and their lamps, that they should burn according to the regulation before the shrine, of purified gold;
and the blossom-work, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold,—the same, was the purest gold;
and the snuffers and the bowls and the spoons and the censers, of purified gold,—and the entrance of the house, the inner doors thereof for the holy of holies, and the doors of the house of the temple, were of gold.