Then certain scribes and Pharisees of Jerusalem came unto Jesus, saying,
Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread.
But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?
For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother, and, He that curses father or mother, let him die without recourse.
But ye say, Whosoever shall say to [his] father or [his] mother, Whatever I might have helped thee with is already my offering [unto God],
and [now] has no need to honour his father or his mother [with succour]. Thus ye have made the commandment of God of no effect by your tradition.
[Ye] hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying,
This people draws nigh unto me with their mouth and honours me with [their] lips, but their heart is far from me.
But in vain do they worship me, teaching doctrines and commandments of men.
And calling the multitude unto him, he said unto them, Hear and understand:
not that which goes into the mouth defiles the man; but that which comes out of the mouth, this defiles the man.
Then his disciples came and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this word?
But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father has not planted shall be rooted up.
Let them alone; they are blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into a pit.
Then Peter answered and said unto him, Declare unto us this parable.
And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding?
Do not ye yet understand that whatever enters in at the mouth goes into the belly and is cast out into the draught?
But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and they defile the man.
For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies:
these are [the things] which defile the man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man.
Then Jesus left there and departed into the parts of Tyre and Sidon.
And, behold, a woman of Canaan having come out of the same borders cried unto him, saying, Lord, Son of David, have mercy on me; my daughter is sick, possessed by a demon.
But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away, for she cries [out] after us.
But he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Then she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me.
But he answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and to cast [it] to the little dogs.
And she said, Yes, Lord, yet the little dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table.
Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great [is] thy faith; be it unto thee even as thou desire. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour.
And Jesus left there and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee and went up into the mountain and sat down there.
And many people came unto him, having with them [those that were] lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many other sick and cast them down at Jesus' feet; and he healed them,
insomuch that the multitude wondered when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see, and they glorified the God of Israel.
Then Jesus called his disciples [unto him] and said, I have mercy on the multitude because they persevere with me now three days and have nothing to eat, and I desire not to send them away fasting lest they faint in the way.
Then his disciples say unto him, From where [do] we have so much bread in the wilderness as to satisfy so great a multitude?
And Jesus said unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven and a few little fishes.
And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground.
And he took the seven loaves and the fishes and gave thanks and broke [them] and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
And they all ate and were filled, and they took up of the broken [food] that was left seven baskets full.
And those that ate were four thousand men besides women and children.
And he sent away the multitude and took ship and came into the borders of Magdala.: