And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made woven garments for ministering in the sanctuary. And they made the holy garments for Aaron, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen.
And they beat the gold into thin plates, and cut threads to work it into the blue, and into the purple, and into the scarlet, and into the bleached linen, the work of an artisan.
They made shoulder-pieces for it, to couple it together. It was coupled together by the two edges.
And its fastening band which was on it, was of it, according to its work; gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And they made stones of onyx set in plaited work of gold, engraved as signets are engraved, with the names of the sons of Israel.
And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, stones for a memorial to the sons of Israel, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And he made the breast-pocket a work of an artisan, like the work of the ephod, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined bleached linen;
it was square. They made the breast-pocket double. Its length was a span, and its breadth a span, doubled.
And they set four rows of stones in it. One row was a ruby, a topaz, and a carbuncle, the first row.
And the second row: an turquoise, a sapphire, and a diamond.
And the third row: a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst.
And the fourth row: a chrysolite, an agate, and a jasper; set in plaited work of gold in their settings.
And the stones were according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, every one with its name according to the twelve tribes.
And they made cords of chains upon the breast-pocket, of woven work of pure gold.
And they made two plaitings of gold and two gold rings. And they put the two rings on the two ends of the breast-pocket.
And they put the two cords of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breast-pocket.
And the two ends of the two cords were fastened in the two plaitings. And they put them on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod, on its front.
And they made two rings of gold. And they put them on the two ends of the breast-pocket, on its border, on the side of the ephod inward.
And they made two golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the front of it, near the other coupling of it, above to the band of the ephod.
And they bound the breast-pocket by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, so that it might be above the band of the ephod, and so that the breast-pocket might not be loosened from the ephod, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.
And the opening in the middle of the robe was like the opening of a corselet, with a band around the opening, so that it might not tear.
And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined bleached linen.
And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the hems of the robe, all around, between the pomegranates:
a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, all around the hem of the robe to minister in, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And they made the tunics of bleached linen of woven work for Aaron and for his sons.
And they made a miter of bleached linen, and the headdress of the caps of bleached linen, and linen breeches of fine twined bleached linen,
and a girdle of fine twined bleached linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, of needlework, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote upon it an inscription of the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
And they tied a lace of blue to it, in order to fasten it on high upon the miter, even as the LORD commanded Moses.
And all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation was finished. And the sons of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses. So they did.
And they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent, and all its furniture, its clasps, its boards, its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets,
and the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and the covering of dugong skins, and the veil of the covering,
the ark of the testimony, and its staves, and the mercy-seat,
the table, and all its vessels, and the showbread,
the pure lampstand, its lamps, even the lamps to be set in order, and all the vessels of it, and the oil for light,
and the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the screen for the tabernacle door,
the bronze altar, and its grate of bronze, its staves, and all its vessels, the laver and its base,
the curtains of the court, its pillars and its sockets, and the screen for the court gate, its cords, and its pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle for the tent of the congregation,
the woven garments for ministering in the sanctuary, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and his sons' garments, to minister in the priest's office.
According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the sons of Israel made all the work.
And Moses looked upon all the work, and, behold, they had done it. As the LORD commanded, even so they had done it. And Moses blessed them.