In those days Hezekiah was sick to death. And the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, So says the LORD, Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live.
And he turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD, saying, O LORD,
I pray, O LORD, remember now how I have walked before You in truth and with a sincere heart, and have done good in Your sight. And Hezekiah wept with a great weeping.
And it happened before Isaiah had gone out into the middle of the court, the word of the LORD came to him saying,
Return again and tell Hezekiah the leader of My people, So says the LORD, the God of David your father, I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the LORD.
And I will add fifteen years to your days. And I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria. And I will defend this city for My own sake, and for My servant David's sake.
And Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs. And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the LORD will heal me, and that I shall go up into the house of the LORD the third day?
And Isaiah said, This will be the sign from the LORD, that the LORD will do the thing which He has spoken. Shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?
And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go down ten steps. No, but let the shadow go backward ten steps.
And Isaiah the prophet cried to the LORD. And He brought the shadow ten steps backward, by which it had gone down on the sundial of Ahaz.
At that time Berodach-baladan, the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah. For he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
And Hezekiah listened to them, and showed them all the house of his precious things, the silver and the gold, and the spices, and the precious ointment, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house nor in all his dominion which Hezekiah did not show them.
And Isaiah the prophet came to king Hezekiah and said to him, What did these men say? And from where did they come to you? And Hezekiah said, They have come from a far country, from Babylon.
And he said, What have they seen in your house? And Hezekiah answered, They have seen all that is in my house. There is nothing among my treasures which I have not shown to them.
And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD.
Behold, the days come when all that is in your house, and which your fathers have laid up in store until today, shall be carried into Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
And of your sons which shall issue from you, which you shall father, they shall take away. And they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.
And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORD which you have spoken. And he said, Is it not good if peace and truth are in my days?
And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made a pool and a conduit, and brought water into the city, are they not written in the Book of the Matters of the Days of the Kings of Judah?
And Hezekiah slept with his fathers. And Manasseh his son reigned in his place.