And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son king, in his stead, for, all the elder sons, had the band of men slain who came in with the Arabians into the camp,—so Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned.
Forty-two years old, was Ahaziah when he began to reign, and, one year, reigned he in Jerusalem,—and, the name of his mother, was Athaliah, daughter of Omri.
He too, walked in the ways of the house of Ahab,—for, his mother, became his counselor, to work lawlessness.
Wherefore he did the thing that was wicked in the eyes of Yahweh, like the house of Ahab,—for, they, became his counselors, after the death of his father, to his destruction.
Even in their counsel, he walked, and went with Jehoram son of Ahab king of Israel, to war against Hazael king of Syria, in Ramoth-gilead,—and the Syrians smote Joram.
And he returned to be healed in Jezreel, because of the wounds wherewith they smote him in Ramah, when he fought with Hazael, king of Syria,—and, Azariah son of Jehoram king of Judah, went down to see Jehoram son of Ahab in Jezreel, because, sick, was he!
But, from God, came the downfall of Azariah, through his coming to Joram,—and because, through his coming, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu son of Nimshi, whom Yahweh had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.
And so it came to pass, when Jehu was executing judgment upon the house of Ahab,—and found the rulers of Judah and the sons of the brethren of Ahaziah ministering to Ahaziah, that he slew them.
And he sought Ahaziah, and they captured him, he, having hid himself in Samaria, and they brought him unto Jehu, and he put him to death, and they buried him, because, said they, he is, the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought Yahweh with all his heart,—and, no one of the house of Ahaziah, had ability for the kingdom.
But, when, Athaliah mother of Ahaziah, saw that her son was dead, she rose up and destroyed all the seed royal of the house of Judah.
But Jehoshabeath, daughter of the king, took Joash son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the sons of the king who were being slain, and put him and his nurse in a bedchamber,—so Jehoshabeath daughter of King Jehoram—wife of Jehoiada the priest, for, she, was the sister of Ahaziah—hid him from the face of Athaliah so that she slew him not.
And it came to pass that he was with them, in the house of God, hidden six years,-while, Athaliah, was reigning over the land.