Sara was an hundred and .xxvij. yere olde (for so longe lyued she)
and than dyed in a heade cyte called Hebron in the londe of Canaan. Than Abraham came to morne Sara and to wepe for her.
And Abraham stode vp from the coorse and talked with the sonnes of heth saynge:
I am a straunger ad a foryner amonge yow geue me a possession to bury in with you that I may bury my dead oute of my sighte.
And the children of heth answered Abraham saynge vnto him:
heare vs lorde thou art a prynce of God amonge vs. In the chefest of oure sepulchres bury thy dead: None of vs shall forbydd ye his sepulchre yt thou shuldest not bury thy deade therein.
Abraha stode vp and bowed hi selfe before ye people of ye lade ye childre of heth.
And he comoned with them saynge: Yf it be youre myndes yt I shall bury my deade oute of my sighte heare me ad speke for me to Ephron the sonne of Zoar:
and let him geue me the dubill caue which he hath in the end of his felde for as moch money as it is worth let him geue it me in the presence of you for a possession to bury in.
For Hephron dwelled amoge ye childern of heth.Than Ephron the Hethite answered Abraham in the audyece of the childern of Heth and of all that went in at the gates of his cyte saynge:
Not so my lorde but heare me: The felde geue I the and the caue that therein is geue I the also And even in the presence of the sonnes of my people geve I it the to bury thy deede in.
Than Abraham bowed himselfe before the people of the lade
and spake vnto Ephro in the audyence of the people of the contre saynge: I praye the heare me I will geue sylver for the felde take it of me ad so will I bury my deed there.
Ephron answered Abraha saynge vnto him
My lorde harken vnto me. The lande is worth iiij. hundreth sycles of syluer: But what is that betwixte the and me? bury thy deede.
And Abraham harkened vnto Ephron and weyde him the sylver which he had sayde in the audyence of the sonnes of Heth. Euen .iiij. hudred syluer sycles of currant money amonge marchauntes
Thus was the felde of Ephron where in the dubbill caue is before Mamre: euen the felde and the caue that is therein and all the trees of the felde which growe in all the borders rounde aboute made sure
vnto Abraham for a possession in the syghte of the childern of Heth and of all that went in at the gates of the cyte.
And then Abraham buried Sara his wyfe in the double caue of the felde that lyeth before Mare otherwise called Ebron in the lande of Canaan.
And so both the felde ad the caue that is therein was made vnto Abraham a sure possession to bury in of the sonnes of Heth.