And rising up, all the multitude of them led Him before Pilate.
And they began to accuse Him, saying, We have found this one perverting the nation and forbidding them to give tribute to Caesar, saying himself to be a king, Christ.
And Pilate asked Him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And He answered him and said, You say it.
And Pilate said to the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man.
And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee to this place.
And hearing Galilee, Pilate asked if the man is a Galilean.
And knowing that He belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent Him to Herod, who himself was also at Jerusalem at that time.
And seeing Jesus, Herod greatly rejoiced, for he had desired to see Him for a long time, because he had heard many things about Him. And he hoped to see some miracle done by Him.
And he questioned Him in many words, but He answered him nothing.
And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused Him.
And humiliating Him with his guardsmen, and mocking Him by putting luxurious clothing around Him, Herod sent Him again to Pilate.
And that same day Pilate and Herod became friends with one another, for before they were at enmity between themselves.
And when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Pilate said to them, You have brought this Man to me as perverting the people. And behold, having examined Him before you, I have found no fault in this Man regarding those things of which you accuse Him;
no, nor even Herod, for I sent you to him, and lo, nothing worthy of death has been done by Him.
Therefore I will chastise Him and release Him.
(For it was necessary for him to release one to them at the feast.)
And they all cried out at once, saying, Away with this One! And release to us Barabbas
(who was thrown into prison because of a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder).
And Pilate, willing to release Jesus, spoke again to them.
But they cried, saying, Crucify! Crucify Him!
And he said to them the third time, Why? What evil has He done? I have found no cause of death in Him, therefore I will chastise Him and let Him go.
But they pressed on him, with loud voices, requesting that He might be crucified. And their voices and those of the chief priests prevailed.
And Pilate gave judgment that their request should be granted.
And he released to them the one who had been thrown into prison for sedition and murder, for whom they had asked. But he delivered up Jesus to their will.
And as they led Him away, they laid hold on one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country. And they laid the cross on him, that he might carry it after Jesus.
And a great multitude of people were following Him, and of women who also were bewailing and lamenting Him.
But turning to them, Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for Me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
For behold, the days are coming in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts which did not suckle.
And they shall begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us! And to the hills, Cover us!
For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry?
And two others, two criminals, were led with Him to be put to death.
And when they came to the place which is called Calvary, they crucified Him and the criminals there, one on the right, and one on the left.
And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. And parting His clothing, they cast lots.
And the people stood watching. And also the rulers with them, scoffing, saying, He saved others, let Him save Himself, if He is the Christ, the chosen of God.
And coming near, the soldiers also mocked Him, and offering Him sour wine,
and saying, If You are the king of the Jews, save Yourself.
And an inscription also was written over Him in letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And one of the hanged criminals blasphemed Him, saying, If you are Christ, save Yourself and us.
But answering, the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God, since you are in the same condemnation.
And we indeed justly so, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this Man has done nothing amiss.
And he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when You come into Your kingdom.
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, Today you shall be with Me in Paradise.
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.
And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in the middle.
And crying with a loud voice, Jesus said, Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit. And when He had said this, He breathed out the spirit.
And when the centurion saw what had been done, he glorified God, saying, Truly this Man was righteous.
And all the crowd arriving together at this sight, beholding the things happening, struck their breasts and returned.
And all those known to Him stood at a distance; and the women, those accompanying Him from Galilee, were seeing these things.
And behold, a man named Joseph, a councillor, a good man and a just one,
this one was not assenting to their counsel and deed. He was from Arimathea, a city of the Jews; and he also himself waited for the kingdom of God.
This man went to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus.
And he took it down and wrapped it in linen. And he laid it in a tomb that had been cut in the stone, in which no man had before been laid.
And that day was the Preparation, and the sabbath drew on.
And also women were following, who were accompanying Him out of Galilee, who watched the tomb, and how His body was placed.
And they returned and they prepared spices and ointment. And they rested on the sabbath day according to the commandment.