BUT Saul was delighted with his execution.   Now on that very day commenced a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and all, besides the apostles, were dispersed through the regions of Judea and Samaria.
Then some pious men assembling, carried Stephen to his grave, and made great lamentation over him.
But Saul ravaged the church, entering into the houses, and dragging men and women, cast them into prison.
Those therefore who were dispersed, travelled through the country, preaching the word.
But Philip, going down to a city of Samaria, preached Christ unto them.
And the multitudes with united minds were very attentive to the things spoken by Philip, when they heard him, and saw the miracles which he did.
For the unclean spirits, roaring with great cries, came forth out of many who were possessed: and many who were paralytic and lame were healed.
And there was great joy in that city.
But a certain man, named Simon, lived previously in that city, who practised magic, and astonished the nation of Samaria, giving out himself as an extraordinary great personage:
to whom all gave heed from the small to the great, saying, This man is the great power of God.
And to him they attended, because he had of a considerable time astonished them by his magical tricks.
But when they believed Philip, who preached the glad tidings of the things which related to the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptised both men and women.
Then Simon also himself believed: and being baptised, he attached himself to Philip, and beholding the signs and great miracles which were performed, he was astonished.
But when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John:
who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost:
for as yet he had not fallen on any one of them: only they had been baptised into the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then they laid their hands upon them, and they received the Holy Ghost.
Now when Simon saw, that by the imposition of the apostles’ hands, the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money,
saying, Confer on me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay my hands, they may receive the Holy Ghost.
But Peter said unto him, May thy silver with thyself go into perdition, because thou hast imagined that the gift of God can be purchased with money.
There is for thee neither part nor lot in this word: for thy heart is not right before God.
Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray to God, if haply this thought of thy heart may be forgiven thee.
For I see that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and the bond of iniquity.
Then Simon answering said, Pray ye for me unto the Lord, that none of the things which ye have spoken may come upon me.
Then they, after bearing their testimony, and speaking the word of the Lord, returned towards Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
Now the angel of the Lord spake to Philip, saying, Arise, and go towards the south, on the road which leads down from Jerusalem to Gaza: it is a wilderness.
And he arose and went: and lo! an Ethiopian man, an eunuch, a person in power under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasury; he had gone to worship unto Jerusalem,
and was returning, and sitting in his chariot, was reading the prophet Isaiah.
Then said the Spirit to Philip, Go up, and approach close to that chariot.
Then Philip running up to him, heard him reading the prophet Isaiah; and he said, Well! but dost thou understand what thou art reading?
He replied, How indeed can I, except some person guide me in the way? And he besought Philip to come up and sit with him.
The portion of scripture which he had been reading was this: “He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and as a lamb before him who sheareth it is dumb, so he opened not his mouth:
in his humiliation his judgment was taken away: but his generation who can describe? for his life was taken away from the earth.”
Then the eunuch addressing himself to Philip, said, I pray thee, of whom doth the prophet thus speak? of himself, or of some other person?
Then Philip opening his mouth, and beginning from that scripture, preached to him Jesus.
But as they went on the road, they came to some water: and the eunuch said, Here is water, what forbids my being baptised?
And Philip said, If thou believest with the whole heart, it is allowable. Then he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
And he bid the carriage stop: and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptised him.
But when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught up Philip, and the eunuch saw him no more: then he went on his way rejoicing.
But Philip found himself at Azotus: and passing through he preached the gospel in all the cities, until he came to Caesarea.