Beniamin also begate Bela his eldest sonne, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fift.
And the sonnes of Bela were Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
And Abishua, and Naaman and Ahoah,
And Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
And these are the sonnes of Ehud: these were the chiefe fathers of those that inhabited Geba: and they were caryed away captiues to Monahath,
And Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he caryed them away captiues: and he begate Vzza, and Ahihud.
And Shaharaim begate certaine in the coutrey of Moab, after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wiues.
He begate, I say, of Hodesh his wife, Iobab and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,
And Ieuz and Shachia and Mirma: these were his sonnes, and chiefe fathers.
And of Hushim he begat Ahitub and Elpaal.
And the sonnes of Elpaal were Eber, and Misham and Shamed (which built Ono, and Lod, and the villages thereof)
And Beriah and Shema (which were the chiefe fathers among the inhabitants of Aialon: they draue away the inhabitants of Gath)
And Ahio, Shashak and Ierimoth,
And Sebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,
And Michael, and Ispah, and Ioha, the sonnes of Beriah,
And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber,
And Ishmerai and Izliah, and Iobab, the sonnes of Elpaal,
Iakim also, and Zichri, and Sabdi,
And Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,
And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrah the sonnes of Shimei,
And Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,
And Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothiiah,
Iphedeiah and Penuel ye sonnes of Shashak,
And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
And Iaareshiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, the sonnes of Ieroham.
These were the chiefe fathers according to their generations, euen princes, which dwelt in Ierusalem.
And at Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maachah.
And his eldest sonne was Abdon, then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
And Gidor, and Ahio, and Zacher.
And Mikloth begate Shimeah: these also dwelt with their brethren in Ierusalem, euen by their brethren.
And Ner begate Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begate Ionathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
And the sonne of Ionathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal begate Micah.
And the sonnes of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
And Ahaz begate Iehoadah, and Iehoadah begate Alemeth, and Azmaueth, and Zimri, and Zimri begate Moza,
And Moza begate Bineah, whose sonne was Raphah, and his sonne Eleasah, and his sonne Azel.
And Azel had sixe sonnes, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: all these were the sonnes of Azel.
And the sonnes of Eshek his brother were Vlam his eldest sonne, Iehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
And the sonnes of Vlam were valiant men of warre which shot with the bow, and had many sonnes and nephewes, an hundreth and fiftie: all these were of the sonnes of Beniamin.