The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to show unto his servants things which are convenient to do quickly, and he sent and signified [it] by his angel unto his servant John,
who bore witness of the word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.
Blessed is he that reads and those that hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which are written therein, for the time [is] at hand.
John, to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace [be] unto you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come and from the seven Spirits which are before his throne
and from Jesus, the Christ, [who is] the faithful witness [and] the first begotten of the dead and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins with his own blood
and has made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him [be] glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Behold, he comes with the clouds, and every eye shall see him and those [also] who pierced him; and all kindreds of the earth shall wail over him. Even so, Amen.
I AM the Alpha and the Omega, beginning and end, saith the Lord, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.
I John, your brother and participant in the tribulation and in the kingdom and in the patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.
I was in the Spirit in the day of the Lord and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet,
that said, I AM the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, and What thou seest, write in a book and send [it] unto the seven churches which are in Asia: unto Ephesus and unto Smyrna and unto Pergamos and unto Thyatira and unto Sardis and unto Philadelphia and unto Laodicea.
And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks
and in the midst of the seven candlesticks [one] like unto the Son of man, clothed with a garment down to the feet and girt about the breasts with a golden girdle.
His head and [his] hairs [were] white like white wool, as the snow, and his eyes [were] as a flame of fire
and his feet like unto brilliant metal as if they burned in a furnace and his voice as the sound of many waters.
And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp twoedged sword, and his countenance [was] as the sun when [it] shines in its strength.
And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I AM the first and the last,
and he that lives and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen, and have the keys of Hades and of death.
Write the things which thou hast seen and the things which are and the things which must be after these.
The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand and the seven golden candlesticks: The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.: