O lord, you have searched me, and known me.
You know my sitting down and my rising up, you understand my thought afar off.
You compass my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
For there is not a word in my tongue, but, see, O LORD, you know it altogether.
You have beset me behind and before, and laid your hand on me.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain to it.
Where shall I go from your spirit? or where shall I flee from your presence?
If I ascend up into heaven, you are there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there.
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;
Even there shall your hand lead me, and your right hand shall hold me.
If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.
Yes, the darkness hides not from you; but the night shines as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to you.
For you have possessed my reins: you have covered me in my mother’s womb.
I will praise you; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvelous are your works; and that my soul knows right well.
My substance was not hid from you, when I was made in secret, and curiously worked in the lowest parts of the earth.
Your eyes did see my substance, yet being imperfect; and in your book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.
How precious also are your thoughts to me, O God! how great is the sum of them!
If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with you.
Surely you will slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, you bloody men.
For they speak against you wickedly, and your enemies take your name in vain.
Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate you? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against you?
I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them my enemies.
Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts:
And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.