And the LORD said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he shall let them go, and with a strong hand he shall drive them out of his land.
And God spoke to Moses, and said to him, I am Jehovah.
And I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God Almighty. But I was not known to them by the name JEHOVAH.
And I also established My covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, in which they were strangers.
And I have also heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, those whom the Egyptians are keeping in bondage. And I have remembered My covenant.
Therefore say to the sons of Israel, I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rescue you out of their bondage. And I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm, and with great judgments.
And I will take you to Me for a people, and I will be to you a God. And you shall know that I am the LORD your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
And I will bring you in to the land concerning which I lifted up My hand to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And I will give it to you for a heritage. I am the LORD!
And Moses said so to the sons of Israel. But they did not listen to Moses through shortness of spirit and through cruel bondage.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the sons of Israel go out of his land.
And Moses spoke before the LORD, saying, Behold, the sons of Israel have not listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh hear me, since I have lips that are not circumcised?
And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, and gave them a charge to the sons of Israel, and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
These were the heads of their fathers' houses: The sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi. These were the families of Reuben.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanitess. These were the families of Simeon.
And these were the names of the sons of Levi, according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. And the years of the life of Levi were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
The sons of Gershon: Libni, and Shimei, by their families.
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. And the years of the life of Kohath were a hundred and thirty-three years.
And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These were the families of Levi according to their generations.
And Amram took Jochebed, his father's sister, for his wife. And she bore him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years.
And the sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.
And Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, sister of Nahshon, for his wife. And she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
And the sons of Korah were Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These were the families of the Korahites.
And Aaron's son Eleazar took his wife of the daughters of Putiel. And she bore him Phinehas. These were the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families.
It was Aaron and Moses to whom the LORD said, Bring out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.
These were the ones who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt to bring out the sons of Israel from Egypt. It was Moses and Aaron.
And it happened on the day the LORD spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt:
the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, I am the LORD. You speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say to you.
And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me?