At this also my heart trembles, and is moved out of his place.
Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound that goes out of his mouth.
He directs it under the whole heaven, and his lightning to the ends of the earth.
After it a voice roars: he thunders with the voice of his excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard.
God thunders marvelously with his voice; great things does he, which we cannot comprehend.
For he says to the snow, Be you on the earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of his strength.
He seals up the hand of every man; that all men may know his work.
Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places.
Out of the south comes the whirlwind: and cold out of the north.
By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the waters is straitened.
Also by watering he wearies the thick cloud: he scatters his bright cloud:
And it is turned round about by his counsels: that they may do whatever he commands them on the face of the world in the earth.
He causes it to come, whether for correction, or for his land, or for mercy.
Listen to this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.
Do you know when God disposed them, and caused the light of his cloud to shine?
Do you know the balancing of the clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?
How your garments are warm, when he quiets the earth by the south wind?
Have you with him spread out the sky, which is strong, and as a molten looking glass?
Teach us what we shall say to him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness.
Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up.
And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds: but the wind passes, and cleans them.
Fair weather comes out of the north: with God is terrible majesty.
Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out: he is excellent in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not afflict.
Men do therefore fear him: he respects not any that are wise of heart.