And when they came near to Jerusalem, to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount of Olives, he sends forth two of his disciples,
and says to them, Go ye into the village opposite you, and straightaway as ye enter into it, ye will find a colt tied, on which none of men have ever sat. After untying it, bring it.
And if any man should say to you, Why are ye doing this? say ye, The Lord has need of it, and straightaway he sends it here.
And they departed, and found the colt tied by the door outside in the street, and they untied it.
And some of those who stood there said to them, What are ye doing, untying the colt?
And they said to them just as Jesus commanded, and they allowed them.
And they brought the colt to Jesus, and threw their garments on it, and he sat upon it.
And many spread their garments upon the road, and others were cutting branches from the fields, and were spreading on the road.
And those who went in front, and those who came behind, cried out saying, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!
Blessed is the kingdom of our father David that comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!
And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple. And when he looked around on all things, the hour now being evening, he went out to Bethany with the twelve.
And on the morrow when they came out from Bethany he was hungry.
And having seen a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if perhaps he will find anything on it. And when he came to it he found nothing except leaves, for it was not the time of figs.
And having responded, Jesus said to it, No man may eat fruit from thee, no more into the age. And his disciples heard it.
And they come to Jerusalem. And having entered into the temple, Jesus began to drive out those who sold and bought in the temple. And he overturned the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of those who sold the doves.
And he did not permit that any man might carry a container through the temple.
And he taught, saying to them, Is it not written, My house will be called a house of prayer for all the nations? But ye made it a den of robbers.
And the scholars and the chief priests heard it, and sought how they might destroy him, for they feared him, because all the people were awed at his doctrine.
And when it became evening he went forth outside of the city.
And passing by in the morning, they saw the fig tree dried out from the roots.
And having remembered, Peter says to him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree that thou cursed has been dried out.
And having answered, Jesus says to them, Have faith in God.
For truly I say to you, that whoever may say to this mountain, Be thou taken up and cast into the sea, and will not doubt in his heart, but will believe that what he says comes to pass, whatever he may say will be for him.
Because of this I say to you, all things, as many as ye may ask, praying, believe that ye receive, and it will be for you.
And whenever ye may stand praying, forgive, if ye have anything against any man, so that also your Father in the heavens will forgive you your trespasses.
But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father in the heavens forgive your trespasses.
And they come again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests, and the scholars, and the elders come to him.
And they say to him, By what authority are thou doing these things? Or who gave thee this authority so that thou may do these things?
And having answering, Jesus said to them, I also will question you one word, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
The immersion of John, was it from heaven, or from men? Answer me.
And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we should say, From heaven, he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?
But should we say, From men? (They feared the people, for all held John that he was indeed a prophet.)
And having answered, they say to Jesus, We do not know. And having answering, Jesus says to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.