After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram; I [am] thy shield, [and] thy exceeding great reward.
And Abram said, Lord GOD, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house [is] this Eliezer of Damascus?
And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed; and, behold, one born in my house is my heir.
And then the word of the LORD [came] unto him, saying, This shall not be thy heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thy heir.
And he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward the heavens and count the stars, if thou art able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.
And he believed the LORD, and he counted it to him for righteousness.
And he said unto him, I [am] the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit it.
And he said, Lord GOD, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it?
And he said unto him, Take me a heifer three years old and a she goat three years old and a ram three years old and a turtledove and a young pigeon.
And he took unto him all these and divided them in the midst and laid each piece one against another, but he did not divide the birds.
And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away.
And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, behold, a horror of great darkness fell upon him.
Then he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land [that is] not theirs and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years;
and also that nation, whom they shall serve, I will judge; and afterward shall they come out with great riches.
And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age.
But in the fourth generation they shall come here again; for the iniquity of the Amorites [is] not yet full.
And it came to pass that when the sun went down and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces.
In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed shall I give this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates:
the Kenite and the Kenizzite and the Kadmonite
and the Hittite and the Perizzite and the Rephaim
and the Amorite and the Canaanite and the Girgashite and the Jebusite.: