As streams of water, So is the heart of the king in the hand of the LORD; He turneth it whithersoever he will.
All the ways of a man are right in his own eyes; But the LORD weigheth the heart.
To do justice and equity Is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice.
The lofty look, the proud heart, The lamp of the wicked, is ruin.
The plans of the diligent tend only to plenty; But the hasty hasteneth only to want.
The getting of treasures by a false tongue Is the fleeting breath of them that seek death.
The rapine of the wicked shall snatch them away, Because they refuse to do justice.
The way of the guilty man is crooked; But he that is pure, his doings are right.
Better is it to dwell in a corner of the housetop Than with a brawling woman in a large house.
The soul of the wicked longeth to do evil; His neighbor findeth no compassion in his eyes.
When the scoffer is punished, the simple is made wise; When the wise man is taught, he receiveth knowledge.
The righteous man hath regard to the house of the wicked; He casteth the wicked headlong into ruin.
Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, He also shall cry aloud, but shall not be heard.
A gift in secret pacifieth anger; And a present in the bosom, strong wrath.
To do justice shall be joy to the righteous; But destruction is for them that do iniquity.
A man who wandereth from the way of discretion Shall rest in the assembly of the dead.
He that loveth pleasure will be a poor man; He that loveth wine and oil will not be rich.
The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous! And in the room of the upright shall be the transgressor.
It is better to dwell in a desert land Than with a contentious and fretful woman.
Precious treasure and oil are in the dwelling of the wise; But the foolish man swalloweth them up.
He who followeth after righteousness and mercy Shall find life, prosperity, and honor.
A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, And bringeth down the strength in which it trusted.
Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue Keepeth his soul from trouble.
The proud and haughty,—scoffer is his name; He acteth with haughty arrogance.
The desire of the sluggard will destroy him; For his hands refuse to labor.
The covetous man coveteth all the day long; But the righteous man giveth, and doth not withhold.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination; How much more when he bringeth it with an evil design!
A false witness shall perish; But a man that hearkeneth shall speak forever.
The wicked man hardeneth his face; But the upright directeth his way.
Wisdom is nothing, and understanding is nothing, And devices are nothing, against the LORD.
The horse is prepared for the day of battle; But victory is from the LORD.