I will stand on my watch and set myself on the tower, and will watch to see what He will say to me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved.
And the LORD answered me and said, Write the vision, and make it plain on the tablets, that he who reads it may run.
For the vision is still for an appointed time, but it speaks to the end, and it does not lie. Though it lingers, wait for it; because it will surely come. It will not tarry.
Behold, the soul of him is lifted up, and is not upright; but the just shall live by his faith.
And also wine indeed betrays a proud man, and he is not content. He widens his soul like Sheol, and he is like death, and is not satisfied, but gathers all nations to himself, and heaps to himself all the peoples.
Shall not all these lift up a parable against him, and a mocking riddle to him, and say, Woe to him who increases what is not his! Until when, then, shall he load the pledges on himself?
Shall not those who strike you rise up suddenly, and those who shake you awake, and you become a prize to them?
Because you have stripped many nations, all the rest of the people shall strip you; because of men's blood, and the violence of the land, of the city, and of all who dwell in it.
Woe to him who robs evil booty for his house, to set his nest on high, to be delivered from the hand of evil!
You have planned shame to your house, to make an end of many people, and are sinning in your soul.
For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber shall answer it.
Woe to him who builds a town with blood, and establishes a city by iniquity!
Behold, is it not for the LORD of hosts that the people labor only for fire; yea, the nations weary themselves only for vanity?
For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea.
Woe to him who gives his neighbor drink, pouring out your wineskin, and also making him drunk, that you may look on their nakedness!
You are filled with shame instead of glory; drink also, and be seen as one uncircumcised! The cup of the LORD's right hand shall turn on you, and disgrace shall be your glory.
For the violence of Lebanon shall cover you, and the ruin of beasts shall terrify them because of the blood of man, and the violence of the land, the city, and all those dwelling in it.
What does an image profit, for its maker has carved it; a molten image, and a teacher of lies? For does the maker trust in his work on it, to make dumb idols?
Woe to him who says to the wood. Awake! To a dumb stone, Arise, it shall teach! Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and no breath is in its midst.
But the LORD is in His holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before Him.