And he went forth from thence, and cometh into his own city,—and his disciples follow him.
And, when it was Sabbath, he began to be teaching in the synagogue, and, the greater part, as they heard, were being struck with astonishment, saying—Whence hath this man these things?—and—What the wisdom which hath been given to this man?—and—Such mighty works as these, through his hands, are coming to pass!
Is not, this, the carpenter? the son of Mary, the brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us?—and they were finding cause of stumbling in him.
And Jesus was saying unto them—A prophet is not without honour, save in his own city and among his kinsfolk, and in his house;
and he could not, there, do so much as a single mighty work,—save, on a few sick, he laid his hands and cured them.
And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he was going round the villages in a circuit, teaching.
And he calleth near the twelve, and began to be sending them forth two and two,—and was giving them authority over the impure spirits:
and charged them that they should take, nothing, for a journey, save a staff only,—no bread, no satchel, no copper, for the belt;
but having bound on light sandals, and not to put on, two tunics;
and he was saying unto them—Wheresoever ye shall enter into a house, there, abide, until ye go forth from thence;
And, whatsoever place shall not welcome you nor hearken unto you, when ye are going forth from thence, shake off the dust that is under you feet, for a witness against them.
And they went forth and made proclamation, in order that men should repent;
and, many demons, were they casting out,—and were anointing with oil, many sick, and were curing them.
And King Herod heard,—for, famous, had become his name; and he was saying—John the Immerser hath arisen from among the dead, and, for this cause, are the powers working mightily in him;
But, others, were saying—It is Elijah, and, others were saying—A prophet, like one of the prophets!
But, when Herod heard, he was saying—He whom I beheaded—John, the same, hath been raised.
For, Herod himself, had sent and secured John and bound him in prison, for the sake of Herodias the wife of Philip his brother,—for, her, had he married,
For John had been saying to Herod—It is not allowed thee, to have, the wife of thy brother.
And, Herodias, was cherishing [a grudge] against him, and wishing, to slay him,—and could not;
for, Herod, stood in fear of John, knowing him to be a man righteous and holy,—and was keeping him safe; and, when he heard him, he paid earnest heed, and, with pleasure, used to listen to him.
And, an opportune day arriving, when Herod on his birthday made a feast for his nobles, and for the rulers of thousands and for the first men of Galilee,
when the daughter of this very Herodias came in and danced, she pleased Herod and those reclining together, and, the king, said unto the damsel—Ask me what thou wilt, and I will give it thee;
and he took an oath to her—Whatsoever thou shalt ask me, I will give thee, unto half my kingdom.
And, going out, she said unto her mother—What shall I ask? and she said—The head of John the Immerser;
And, coming in straightway, with hast, unto the king, she asked, saying—I desire, that, forthwith, thou give me, upon a charger, the head of John the Immerser.
And, though the king was, very grieved, yet, by reason of the oaths, and of them who were reclining, he would not refuse her.
And the king, straightway, sending off a guard, gave orders to bring his head.
And, departing, he beheaded him in the prison, and brought his head upon a charger, and gave it unto the damsel—and, the damsel, gave it unto her mother.
And, hearing of it, his disciples went and took away his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.
And the apostles gather themselves together unto Jesus, and reported unto him all things, as many as they had done, and as many as they had taught.
And he saith unto them—Come, ye yourselves, apart, into a desert place, and rest yourselves a little. For they who were coming and they who were going were many, and, not even to eat, were they finding fitting opportunity.
And they departed, in the boat, into a desert place, apart.
And many saw them going away, and took note of it, and, afoot, from all the cities, ran they together thither,—and outwent them.
And, coming forth, he saw, a great multitude, and was moved with compassion towards them, because they were like sheep having no shepherd, and he began to be teaching them many things.
And, already, a late hour, having arrived, his disciples came unto him and were saying, A desert, is the place, and it is, already, a late hour:
dismiss them, that, departing into the surrounding hamlets and villages, they may buy themselves something to eat.
But, he, answering said to them—Ye, give them, to eat. And they say unto him—Shall we depart and buy two hundred denaries’ worth of loaves, and give them to eat?
And, he, saith unto them—How many loaves, have ye? Go, see! And, getting to know, they say—Five, and, two fishes.
And he gave them orders, that all should be made recline, in parties, upon, the green grass.
And they fell back, in companies, by hundreds and by fifties.
And, taking the five loaves, and the two fishes, looking up into heaven, he blessed, and brake up the loaves, and began giving unto the disciples, that they might set before them, and, the two fishes, divided he, unto all.
And they did all eat, and were filled.
And they took up broken pieces, twelve baskets, full measure, and from the fishes.
And they who did eat the loaves were, five thousand men.
And, straightway, constrained he his disciples to enter into the boat, and be going forward to the other side, unto Bethsaida,—while, he, was dismissing the multitude.
And, bidding them farewell, he departed into the mountain to pray.
And, when, evening, came, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and, he alone, on the land.
And, seeing them distressed in the rowing, for the wind was against them, about the fourth watch of the night, he cometh unto them, walking upon the sea,—and was wishing to pass by them.
But, they, seeing him, upon the sea, walking, supposed that it was an apparition, and cried out aloud;
for, all, saw him, and were troubled. But, he, straightway, talked with them, and saith unto them—Take courage! it is, I—be not afraid!
And he went up unto them, into the boat,—and the wind lulled. And, exceedingly, within themselves, were they astonished;
for they understood not by the loaves,—but their, heart, had been, hardened.
And crossing over unto the land, they came unto Gennesaret, and cast anchor near.
And, when they had, come forth, out of the boat, straightway, recognizing him,
the people ran round the whole of that country, and began to be carrying round, upon couches, them who were sick, wherever they heard that he was.
And, wheresoever he was entering into villages, or into cities, or into hamlets, in the marketplaces, laid they the sick, and were beseeching him, that, only the fringe of his mantle, they might touch, and, as many soever as touched it, were being made well.