Therefore you are without excuse, O man, everyone who judges; for in that in which you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you who judge do the same things.
But know that the judgment of God is according to truth on those who practice such things.
And, O man, the one judging those who do such things, and practice them, do you think this, that you shall escape the judgment of God?
Or do you despise the riches of His kindness, and the forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance?
But according to your hardness and your impenitent heart, do you treasure up wrath for yourself in a day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God,
who will render to each according to his works;
indeed to those who with patience in good work are seeking for glory, and honor, and incorruptibility, everlasting life.
But to those who even disobey the truth out of self-interest, but obey unrighteousness, it will be anger and wrath,
tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man who has worked out evil; of the Jew first, and also of the Greek.
But He will give glory, honor and peace to every man who works good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
For there is no respect of persons with God.
For as many as sinned without Law will also perish without Law. And as many as have sinned within Law shall be judged through Law.
For it is not the hearers of the Law who are just before God, but the doers of the Law will be justified.
For when the nations, who do not have the Law, do by nature the things of the Law, these, not having the Law, are a law unto themselves;
who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and the thoughts between one another accusing or even excusing one another,
in a day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel.
Behold, you are called a Jew, and rest in the Law, and boast in God;
and know His will and approve the things excelling, being instructed out of the Law;
and persuading yourselves to be a guide of the blind, a light to those in darkness;
an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, who have the form of knowledge and of the truth in the Law.
Therefore the one teaching another, do you not teach yourself? The one preaching not to steal, do you steal?
The one saying not to commit adultery, do you commit adultery? The one detesting idols, do you rob temples?
You who boast in Law, do you dishonor God through breaking the Law?
For the name of God is blasphemed among the nations because of you, as it is written.
For circumcision truly profits if you keep the Law, but if you are a transgressor of the Law, circumcision becomes uncircumcision.
If then the uncircumcision keeps the ordinances of the Law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?
And the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfills the Law, shall it not judge you, who through letter and circumcision become transgressors of the Law?
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that outwardly in flesh;
but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is of the heart; in spirit and not in letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God.