The Sabboth daye at even which dauneth the morowe after the Sabboth Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to se the sepulcre.
And beholde ther was a greate erth quake. For the angell of ye lorde descended from heven: and came and rowlled backe the stone from the dore and sate apon it.
His countenaunce was lyke lyghtnynge and his raymet whyte as snowe.
And for feare of him the kepers were astunnyed and became as deed men.
The angell answered and sayde to the wemen feare ye not. I knowe yt ye seke Iesus which was crucified:
he is not here: he is rysen as he sayde. Come and se the place where the lorde was put:
and goo quickly and tell his disciples yt he is rysen from deeth. And beholde he will go before you into Galile there ye shall se him. Lo I have tolde you.
And they departed quickly from the sepulcre with feare and greate Ioye: and did runne to bringe his disciples worde.
And as they went to tell his disciples: beholde Iesus met them sayinge: All hayle. And they came and held him by the fete and worshipped him.
The sayde Iesus vnto them: be not afrayde. Go and tell my brethren that they goo in to Galile and there shall they se me.
When they were gone: beholde some of the kepers came into the cyte and shewed vnto the hie prestes all the thinges that were hapened.
And they gaddered them to gedder with the elders and toke counsell and gave large money vnto the soudiers
sayinge: Saye that his disciples came by nyght and stole him awaye whill ye slept.
And if this come to the rulers cares we wyll pease him and save you harmeles.
And they toke the money and dyd as they were taught. And this sayinge is noysed amoge the Iewes vnto this daye.
Then the .xi. disciples went awaye into Galile in to a mountayne where Iesus had appoynted them.
And when they sawe hym they worshipped him. But some of them douted.
And Iesus came and spake vnto them sayinge: All power ys geve vnto me in heve and in erth.
Go therfore and teache all nacions baptysinge them in the name of the father and the sonne and the holy goost:
Teachinge them to observe all thynges what soever I comcommaunded you. And lo I am with you all waye even vntyll the ende of the worlde.