And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin unwittingly, in any of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done, and shall do any one of them,
if the anointed priest shall sin so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him offer for his sin, which he has sinned, a young bullock without blemish to Jehovah for a sin offering.
And he shall bring the bullock to the door of the tent of meeting before Jehovah. And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the bullock, and kill the bullock before Jehovah.
And the anointed priest shall take of the blood of the bullock, and bring it to the tent of meeting.
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seven times before Jehovah, before the veil of the sanctuary.
And the priest shall put of the blood upon the horns of the altar of sweet incense before Jehovah, which is in the tent of meeting, and all the blood of the bullock he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the tent of meeting.
And all the fat of the bullock of the sin offering he shall take off from it. The fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is upon the innards,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away,
as it is taken off from the ox of the sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall burn them upon the altar of burnt offering.
And the skin of the bullock, and all its flesh, with its head, and with its legs, and its innards, and its dung,
even the whole bullock he shall carry forth outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on wood with fire. It shall be burnt where the ashes are poured out.
And if the whole congregation of Israel err, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done any of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done, and are guilty,
when the sin by which they have sinned is known, then the assembly shall offer a young bullock for a sin offering, and bring it before the tent of meeting.
And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock before Jehovah, and the bullock shall be killed before Jehovah.
And the anointed priest shall bring of the blood of the bullock to the tent of meeting.
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before Jehovah, before the veil.
And he shall put of the blood upon the horns of the altar which is before Jehovah, that is in the tent of meeting, and all the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the tent of meeting.
And all the fat of it he shall take off from it, and burn it upon the altar.
Thus he shall do with the bullock, as he did with the bullock of the sin offering, so he shall do with this. And the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven.
And he shall carry forth the bullock outside the camp, and burn it as he burned the first bullock. It is the sin offering for the assembly.
When a ruler sins, and does unwittingly any one of all the things which Jehovah his God has commanded not to be done, and is guilty,
if his sin, by which he has sinned, be made known to him, he shall bring for his oblation a goat, a male without blemish.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before Jehovah. It is a sin offering.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and the blood of it he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
And all the fat of it he shall burn upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall make atonement for him as concerning his sin, and he shall be forgiven.
And if any soul of the common people sin unwittingly, in doing any of the things which Jehovah has commanded not to be done, and be guilty,
if his sin, which he has sinned, be made known to him, then he shall bring for his oblation a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has sinned.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and kill the sin offering in the place of burnt offering.
And the priest shall take of the blood of it with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and all the blood of it he shall pour out at the base of the altar.
And all the fat of it he shall take away, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace offerings, and the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor to Jehovah. And the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.
And if he brings a lamb as his oblation for a sin offering, he shall bring it a female without blemish.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and kill it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and all the blood of it he shall pour out at the base of the altar.
And all the fat of it he shall take away, as the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of peace offerings, and the priest shall burn them on the altar, upon the offerings of Jehovah made by fire. And the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin that he has sinned, and he shall be forgiven.