Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,
to Timothy, dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, [and] peace of God the Father and of Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve from [my] forefathers with [a] pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day,
greatly desiring to see thee (being mindful of thy tears), that I may be filled with joy,
when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also.
Therefore I admonish thee that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.
For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of strength and of love and of temperance.
Therefore be not thou ashamed [to give] testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel by the power of God,
who has saved us and called [us] with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the times of the ages,
but is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who has annulled death, and has brought life and incorruption to light through the gospel,
unto which I am appointed [a] preacher and [an] apostle and [a] teacher of the Gentiles.
For which cause I also suffer these things; nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day.
Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me, in faith and charity which is in Christ Jesus.
Keep the good deposit committed [unto thee] by the Holy Spirit which dwells in us.
This, thou knowest, that all those who are in Asia are turned away from me, of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain;
for when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found [me].
The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day; and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.: